DOC_ID,TITLE,TEXT
0,microstructural development of human newborn cerebral white matter assessed in vivo by diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging.,alterations of the architecture of cerebral white matter in the developing human brain can affect cortical development and result in functional disabilities. a line scan diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (mri) sequence with diffusion tensor analysis was applied to measure the apparent diffusion coefficient  to calculate relative anisotropy  and to delineate three-dimensional fiber architecture in cerebral white matter in preterm (n = 17) and full-term infants (n = 7). to assess effects of prematurity on cerebral white matter development  early gestation preterm infants (n = 10) were studied a second time at term. in the central white matter the mean apparent diffusion coefficient at 28 wk was high  1.8 microm2/ms  and decreased toward term to 1.2 microm2/ms. in the posterior limb of the internal capsule  the mean apparent diffusion coefficients at both times were similar (1.2 versus 1.1 microm2/ms). relative anisotropy was higher the closer birth was to term with greater absolute values in the internal capsule than in the central white matter. preterm infants at term showed higher mean diffusion coefficients in the central white matter (1.4 +/- 0.24 versus 1.15 +/- 0.09 microm2/ms  p = 0.016) and lower relative anisotropy in both areas compared with full-term infants (white matter  10.9 +/- 0.6 versus 22.9 +/- 3.0%  p = 0.001; internal capsule  24.0 +/- 4.44 versus 33.1 +/- 0.6% p = 0.006). nonmyelinated fibers in the corpus callosum were visible by diffusion tensor mri as early as 28 wk; full-term and preterm infants at term showed marked differences in white matter fiber organization. the data indicate that quantitative assessment of water diffusion by diffusion tensor mri provides insight into microstructural development in cerebral white matter in living infants.
2,bc1 rna  the transcript from a master gene for id element amplification  is able to prime its own reverse transcription.,id elements are short interspersed elements (sines) found in high copy number in many rodent genomes. bc1 rna  an id-related transcript  is derived from the single copy bc1 rna gene. the bc1 rna gene has been shown to be a master gene for id element amplification in rodent genomes. id elements are dispersed through a process termed retroposition. the retroposition process involves a number of potential regulatory steps. these regulatory steps may include transcription in the appropriate tissue  transcript stability  priming of the rna transcript for reverse transcription and integration. this study focuses on priming of the rna transcript for reverse transcription. bc1 rna gene transcripts are shown to be able to prime their own reverse transcription in an efficient intramolecular and site-specific fashion. this self-priming ability is a consequence of the secondary structure of the 3'-unique region. the observation that a gene actively amplified throughout rodent evolution makes a rna capable of efficient self-primed reverse transcription strongly suggests that self-priming is at least one feature establishing the bc1 rna gene as a master gene for amplification of id elements.
4,the human myelin basic protein gene is included within a 179-kilobase transcription unit: expression in the immune and central nervous systems.,two human golli (for gene expressed in the oligodendrocyte lineage)-mbp (for myelin basic protein) cdnas have been isolated from a human oligodendroglioma cell line. analysis of these cdnas has enabled us to determine the entire structure of the human golli-mbp gene. the golli-mbp gene  which encompasses the mbp transcription unit  is approximately 179 kb in length and consists of 10 exons  seven of which constitute the mbp gene. the human golli-mbp gene contains two transcription start sites  each of which gives rise to a family of alternatively spliced transcripts. at least two golli-mbp transcripts  containing the first three exons of the gene and one or more mbp exons  are produced from the first transcription start site. the second family of transcripts contains only mbp exons and produces the well-known mbps. in humans  rna blot analysis revealed that golli-mbp transcripts were expressed in fetal thymus  spleen  and human b-cell and macrophage cell lines  as well as in fetal spinal cord. these findings clearly link the expression of exons encoding the autoimmunogen/encephalitogen mbp in the central nervous system to cells and tissues of the immune system through normal expression of the golli-mbp gene. they also establish that this genetic locus  which includes the mbp gene  is conserved among species  providing further evidence that the mbp transcription unit is an integral part of the golli transcription unit and suggest that this structural arrangement is important for the genetic function and/or regulation of these genes.
6,efficient targeting of expressed and silent genes in human escs and ipscs using zinc-finger nucleases,realizing the full potential of human embryonic stem cells (hescs) and induced pluripotent stem cells (hipscs) requires efficient methods for genetic modification. however  techniques to generate cell type–specific lineage reporters  as well as reliable tools to disrupt  repair or overexpress genes by gene targeting  are inefficient at best and thus are not routinely used. here we report the highly efficient targeting of three genes in human pluripotent cells using zinc-finger nuclease (zfn)–mediated genome editing. first  using zfns specific for the oct4 (pou5f1) locus  we generated oct4-egfp reporter cells to monitor the pluripotent state of hescs. second  we inserted a transgene into the aavs1 locus to generate a robust drug-inducible overexpression system in hescs. finally  we targeted the pitx3 gene  demonstrating that zfns can be used to generate reporter cells by targeting non-expressed genes in hescs and hipscs.
8,bayesian measures of model complexity and fit,summary. we consider the problem of comparing complex hierarchical models in which the number of parameters is not clearly defined. using an information theoretic argument we derive a measure pd for the effective number of parameters in a model as the difference between the posterior mean of the deviance and the deviance at the posterior means of the parameters of interest. in general pd approximately corresponds to the trace of the product of fisher's information and the posterior covariance  which in normal models is the trace of the ‘hat’ matrix projecting observations onto fitted values. its properties in exponential families are explored. the posterior mean deviance is suggested as a bayesian measure of fit or adequacy  and the contributions of individual observations to the fit and complexity can give rise to a diagnostic plot of deviance residuals against leverages. adding pd to the posterior mean deviance gives a deviance information criterion for comparing models  which is related to other information criteria and has an approximate decision theoretic justification. the procedure is illustrated in some examples  and comparisons are drawn with alternative bayesian and classical proposals. throughout it is emphasized that the quantities required are trivial to compute in a markov chain monte carlo analysis.
10,induction of early ifn-inducible genes in the absence of type,on recognition of influenza virus (flu) by tlr7  plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pdcs) produce type i ifn in significant amounts. synthetic tlr7 ligands induce the maturation of pdcs  as evidenced by the expression of costimulatory molecules and the production of proinflammatory cytokines; however  they induce only low-level production of ifn-alpha. to dissect the tlr7 signaling in pdcs and how these different profiles are induced  we studied the effects of 2 tlr7 ligands (flu and cl097) on the activation of blood-isolated pdcs and the human gen2.2 pdc cell line. type i ifn production by pdcs correlates with differential interferon regulatory factor 7 (irf7) translocation into the nucleus induced by the 2 tlr7 ligands. surprisingly  with both activators we nevertheless observed the rapid expression of the ifn-inducible genes mxa  cxcl10  and trail within 4 hours of stimulation. this expression  controlled by stat1 phosphorylation  was independent of type i ifn. stat1 activation was found to be strictly dependent on the pi3k-p38mapk pathway  showing a new signaling pathway leading to rapid expression of ifn-inducible genes after tlr7 triggering. thus  pdcs  through this unusual tlr7 signaling  have the capacity to promptly respond to viral infection during the early phases of the innate immune response.
12,common carotid intima media thickness and ankle-brachial pressure index correlate with local but not global atheroma burden: a cross sectional study using whole body magnetic resonance angiography,background common carotid intima media thickness (cimt) and ankle brachial pressure index (abpi) are used as surrogate marker of atherosclerosis  and have been shown to correlate with arterial stiffness  however their correlation with global atherosclerotic burden has not been previously assessed. we compare cimt and abpi with atheroma burden as measured by whole body magnetic resonance angiography (wb-mra). methods 50 patients with symptomatic peripheral arterial disease were recruited. cimt was measured using ultrasound while rest and exercise abpi were performed. wb-mra was performed in a 1.5t mri scanner using 4 volume acquisitions with a divided dose of intravenous gadolinium gadoterate meglumine (dotarem  guerbet  fr). the wb-mra data was divided into 31 anatomical arterial segments with each scored according to degree of luminal narrowing: 0 = normal  1 = <50%  2 = 50-70%  3 = 70-99%  4 = vessel occlusion. the segment scores were summed and from this a standardized atheroma score was calculated. results the atherosclerotic burden was high with a standardised atheroma score of 39.5±11. common cimt showed a positive correlation with the whole body atheroma score (β 0.32  p = 0.045)  however this was due to its strong correlation with the neck and thoracic segments (β 0.42 p = 0.01) with no correlation with the rest of the body. abpi correlated with the whole body atheroma score (β -0.39  p = 0.012)  which was due to a strong correlation with the ilio-femoral vessels with no correlation with the thoracic or neck vessels. on multiple linear regression  no correlation between cimt and global atheroma burden was present (β 0.13 p = 0.45)  while the correlation between abpi and atheroma burden persisted (β -0.45 p = 0.005). conclusion abpi but not cimt correlates with global atheroma burden as measured by whole body contrast enhanced magnetic resonance angiography in a population with symptomatic peripheral arterial disease. however this is primarily due to a strong correlation with ilio-femoral atheroma burden.
14,the journey of developing hematopoietic stem cells.,hematopoietic stem cells (hscs) develop during embryogenesis in a complex process that involves multiple anatomical sites. once hsc precursors have been specified from mesoderm  they have to mature into functional hscs and undergo self-renewing divisions to generate a pool of hscs. during this process  developing hscs migrate through various embryonic niches  which provide signals for their establishment and the conservation of their self-renewal ability. these processes have to be recapitulated to generate hscs from embryonic stem cells. elucidating the interactions between developing hscs and their niches should facilitate the generation and expansion of hscs in vitro to exploit their clinical potential.
16,a rapid method for extraction of cotton (gossypium spp.) genomic dna suitable for rflp or pcr analysis,extraction of high-quality genomic dna fromgossypium (cotton) species is difficult due to high levels of polysaccharide  oxidizable quinones  and other interfering substances. we describe a procedure that consistently permits isolation of cotton genomic dna of satisfactory size and quality for rflp and pcr analysis  as well as for most routine cloning applications. several antioxidants  phenol-binding reagents  and phenol oxidase inhibitors are used throughout the procedure  and most polysaccharides are eliminated early in the procedure by isolation of nuclei.
18,the suture provides a niche for mesenchymal stem cells of craniofacial bones,bone tissue undergoes constant turnover supported by stem cells. recent studies showed that perivascular mesenchymal stem cells (mscs) contribute to the turnover of long bones. craniofacial bones are flat bones derived from a different embryonic origin than the long bones. the identity and regulating niche for craniofacial-bone mscs remain unknown. here  we identify gli1+ cells within the suture mesenchyme as the main msc population for craniofacial bones. they are not associated with vasculature  give rise to all craniofacial bones in the adult and are activated during injury repair. gli1+ cells are typical mscs in vitro. ablation of gli1+ cells leads to craniosynostosis and arrest of skull growth  indicating that these cells are an indispensable stem cell population. twist1(+/-) mice with craniosynostosis show reduced gli1+ mscs in sutures  suggesting that craniosynostosis may result from diminished suture stem cells. our study indicates that craniofacial sutures provide a unique niche for mscs for craniofacial bone homeostasis and repair.
20,the mammalian target of rapamycin signaling pathway mediates epileptogenesis in a model of temporal lobe epilepsy.,understanding molecular mechanisms mediating epileptogenesis is critical for developing more effective therapies for epilepsy. we recently found that the mammalian target of rapamycin (mtor) signaling pathway is involved in epileptogenesis  and mtor inhibitors prevent epilepsy in a mouse model of tuberous sclerosis complex. here  we investigated the potential role of mtor in a rat model of temporal lobe epilepsy initiated by status epilepticus. acute kainate-induced seizures resulted in biphasic activation of the mtor pathway  as evident by an increase in phospho-s6 (p-s6) expression. an initial rise in p-s6 expression started approximately 1 h after seizure onset  peaked at 3-6 h  and returned to baseline by 24 h in both hippocampus and neocortex  reflecting widespread stimulation of mtor signaling by acute seizure activity. after resolution of status epilepticus  a second increase in p-s6 was observed in hippocampus only  which started at 3 d  peaked 5-10 d  and persisted for several weeks after kainate injection  correlating with the development of chronic epileptogenesis within hippocampus. the mtor inhibitor rapamycin  administered before kainate  blocked both the acute and chronic phases of seizure-induced mtor activation and decreased kainate-induced neuronal cell death  neurogenesis  mossy fiber sprouting  and the development of spontaneous epilepsy. late rapamycin treatment  after termination of status epilepticus  blocked the chronic phase of mtor activation and reduced mossy fiber sprouting and epilepsy but not neurogenesis or neuronal death. these findings indicate that mtor signaling mediates mechanisms of epileptogenesis in the kainate rat model and that mtor inhibitors have potential antiepileptogenic effects in this model.
22,mechanisms linking obesity to insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes,obesity is associated with an increased risk of developing insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes. in obese individuals  adipose tissue releases increased amounts of non-esterified fatty acids  glycerol  hormones  pro-inflammatory cytokines and other factors that are involved in the development of insulin resistance. when insulin resistance is accompanied by dysfunction of pancreatic islet β-cells — the cells that release insulin — failure to control blood glucose levels results. abnormalities in β-cell function are therefore critical in defining the risk and development of type 2 diabetes. this knowledge is fostering exploration of the molecular and genetic basis of the disease and new approaches to its treatment and prevention.
24,ctcf binding at the h19 imprinting control region mediates maternally inherited higher-order chromatin conformation to restrict enhancer access to igf2.,it is thought that the h19 imprinting control region (icr) directs the silencing of the maternally inherited igf2 allele through a ctcf-dependent chromatin insulator. the icr has been shown to interact physically with a silencer region in igf2  differentially methylated region (dmr)1  but the role of ctcf in this chromatin loop and whether it restricts the physical access of distal enhancers to igf2 is not known. we performed systematic chromosome conformation capture analyses in the igf2/h19 region over >160 kb  identifying sequences that interact physically with the distal enhancers and the icr. we found that  on the paternal chromosome  enhancers interact with the igf2 promoters but that  on the maternal allele  this is prevented by ctcf binding within the h19 icr. ctcf binding in the maternal icr regulates its interaction with matrix attachment region (mar)3 and dmr1 at igf2  thus forming a tight loop around the maternal igf2 locus  which may contribute to its silencing. mutation of ctcf binding sites in the h19 icr leads to loss of ctcf binding and de novo methylation of a ctcf target site within igf2 dmr1  showing that ctcf can coordinate regional epigenetic marks. this systematic chromosome conformation capture analysis of an imprinting cluster reveals that ctcf has a critical role in the epigenetic regulation of higher-order chromatin structure and gene silencing over considerable distances in the genome.
26,effects of an opal termination codon preceding the nsp4 gene sequence in the o'nyong-nyong virus genome on anopheles gambiae infectivity.,the genomic rna of an alphavirus encodes four different nonstructural proteins  nsp1  nsp2  nsp3  and nsp4. the polyprotein p123 is produced when translation terminates at an opal termination codon between nsp3 and nsp4. the polyprotein p1234 is produced when translational readthrough occurs or when the opal termination codon has been replaced by a sense codon in the alphavirus genome. evolutionary pressures appear to have maintained genomic sequences encoding both a stop codon (opal) and an open reading frame (arginine) as a general feature of the o'nyong-nyong virus (onnv) genome  indicating that both are required at some point. alternate replication of onnvs in both vertebrate and invertebrate hosts may determine predominance of a particular codon at this locus in the viral quasispecies. however  no systematic study has previously tested this hypothesis in whole animals. we report here the results of the first study to investigate in a natural mosquito host the functional significance of the opal stop codon in an alphavirus genome. we used a full-length cdna clone of onnv to construct a series of mutants in which the arginine between nsp3 and nsp4 was replaced with an opal  ochre  or amber stop codon. the presence of an opal stop codon upstream of nsp4 nearly doubled (75.5%) the infectivity of onnv over that of virus possessing a codon for the amino acid arginine at the corresponding position (39.8%). although the frequency with which the opal virus disseminated from the mosquito midgut did not differ significantly from that of the arginine virus on days 8 and 10  dissemination did began earlier in mosquitoes infected with the opal virus. although a clear fitness advantage is provided to onnv by the presence of an opal codon between nsp3 and nsp4 in anopheles gambiae  sequence analysis of onnv rna extracted from mosquito bodies and heads indicated codon usage at this position corresponded with that of the virus administered in the blood meal. these results suggest that while selection of onnv variants is occurring  de novo mutation at the position between nsp3 and nsp4 does not readily occur in the mosquito. taken together  these results suggest that the primary fitness advantage provided to onnv by the presence of an opal codon between nsp3 and nsp4 is related to mosquito infectivity.
28,htrf: a technology tailored for drug discovery –a review of theoretical aspects and recent applications,htrf (homogeneous time resolved fluorescence) is the most frequently used generic assay technology to measure analytes in a homogenous format  which is the ideal platform used for drug target studies in high-throughput screening (hts). this technology combines fluorescence resonance energy transfer technology (fret) with time-resolved measurement (tr). in tr-fret assays  a signal is generated through fluorescent resonance energy transfer between a donor and an acceptor molecule when in close proximity to each other. buffer and media interference is dramatically reduced by dual-wavelength detection  and the final signal is proportional to the extent of product formation. the htrf assay is usually sensitive and robust that can be miniaturized into the 384 and 1536-well plate formats. this assay technology has been applied to many antibody-based assays including gpcr signaling (camp and ip-one)  kinases  cytokines and biomarkers  bioprocess (antibody and protein production)  as well as the assays for protein-protein  proteinpeptide  and protein-dna/rna interactions. since its introduction to the drug-screening world over ten years ago  researchers have used htrf to expedite the study of gpcrs  kinases  new biomarkers  protein-protein interactions  and other targets of interest. htrf has also been utilized as an alternative method for bioprocess monitoring. the first-generation htrf technology  which uses europium cryptate as a fluorescence donor to monitor reactions between biomolecules  was extended in 2008 through the introduction of a second-generation donor  terbium cryptate (tb)  enhancing screening performance. terbium cryptate possesses different photophysical properties compared to europium  including increased quantum yield and a higher molar extinction coefficient. in addition to being compatible with the same acceptor fluorophors used with europium  it can serve as a donor fluorophore to green-emitting fluors because it has multiple emission peaks including one at 490 nm. moreover  all terbium htrf assays can be read on the same htrf-compatible instruments as europium htrf assays. overall  htrf is a highly sensitive  robust technology for the detection of molecular interactions in vitro and is widely used for primary and secondary screening phases of drug development. this review addresses the general principles of htrf and its current applications in drug discovery.
30,fra-1 protooncogene regulates il-6 expression in macrophages and promotes the generation of m2d macrophages,the tumor microenvironment (tme) plays a prominent role in the growth of tumor cells. as the major inflammatory component of the tme  m2d macrophages are educated by the tme such that they adopt an immunosuppressive role that promotes tumor metastasis and progression. fra-1 forms activator protein-1 heterodimers with jun partners and drives gene transcription. fra-1 is thought to drastically induce tumorigenesis and progression. however  the functional role of fra-1 in the generation of m2d macrophages is poorly understood to date. here  we demonstrate that 4t1 mammary carcinoma cells  when co-cultured with raw264.7 macrophage cells  skew the raw264.7 macrophage cell differentiation into m2d macrophages. the 4t1 cells stimulate de novo overexpression of fra-1 in raw264.7 cells  and then fra-1 binds to the interleukin 6 (il-6) promoter to increase the production of the cytokine il-6 in raw264.7 cells. il-6 acts in an autocrine fashion to skew raw264.7 macrophage cell differentiation into m2d macrophages. these findings open new insights into how to reverse m2d macrophage-induced immune tolerance to improve the efficacy of immunotherapeutic approaches.
32,inferring nucleosome positions with their histone mark annotation from chip data,motivation the nucleosome is the basic repeating unit of chromatin. it contains two copies each of the four core histones h2a  h2b  h3 and h4 and about 147 bp of dna. the residues of the histone proteins are subject to numerous post-translational modifications  such as methylation or acetylation. chromatin immunoprecipitiation followed by sequencing (chip-seq) is a technique that provides genome-wide occupancy data of these modified histone proteins  and it requires appropriate computational methods. results we present nuchunter  an algorithm that uses the data from chip-seq experiments directed against many histone modifications to infer positioned nucleosomes. nuchunter annotates each of these nucleosomes with the intensities of the histone modifications. we demonstrate that these annotations can be used to infer nucleosomal states with distinct correlations to underlying genomic features and chromatin-related processes  such as transcriptional start sites  enhancers  elongation by rna polymerase ii and chromatin-mediated repression. thus  nuchunter is a versatile tool that can be used to predict positioned nucleosomes from a panel of histone modification chip-seq experiments and infer distinct histone modification patterns associated to different chromatin states. availability the software is available at http://epigen.molgen.mpg.de/nuchunter/.
34,insulin action and resistance in obesity and type 2 diabetes,nutritional excess is a major forerunner of type 2 diabetes. it enhances the secretion of insulin  but attenuates insulin's metabolic actions in the liver  skeletal muscle and adipose tissue. however  conflicting evidence indicates a lack of knowledge of the timing of these events during the development of obesity and diabetes  pointing to a key gap in our understanding of metabolic disease. this perspective reviews alternate viewpoints and recent results on the temporal and mechanistic connections between hyperinsulinemia  obesity and insulin resistance. although much attention has addressed early steps in the insulin signaling cascade  insulin resistance in obesity seems to be largely elicited downstream of these steps. new findings also connect insulin resistance to extensive metabolic cross-talk between the liver  adipose tissue  pancreas and skeletal muscle. these and other advances over the past 5 years offer exciting opportunities and daunting challenges for the development of new therapeutic strategies for the treatment of type 2 diabetes.
36,interaction of an adenovirus e3 14.7-kilodalton protein with a novel tumor necrosis factor alpha-inducible cellular protein containing leucine zipper domains.,early region 3 (e3) of group c human adenoviruses (ad) encodes several inhibitors of tumor necrosis factor alpha (tnf-alpha) cytolysis  including an e3 14.7-kda protein (e3-14.7k) and a heterodimer containing two polypeptides of 10.4 and 14.5 kda. to understand the mechanism by which the viral proteins inhibit tnf-alpha functions  the e3-14.7k protein was used to screen a hela cell cdna library to search for interacting proteins in the yeast two-hybrid system. a novel protein containing multiple leucine zipper domains without any significant homology with any known protein was identified and has been named fip-2 (for 14.7k-interacting protein). fip-2 interacted with e3-14.7k both in vitro and in vivo. it colocalized with ad e3-14.7k in the cytoplasm  especially near the nuclear membrane  and caused redistribution of the viral protein. fip-2 by itself does not cause cell death; however  it can reverse the protective effect of e3-14.7k on cell killing induced by overexpression of the intracellular domain of the 55-kda tnf receptor or by rip  a death protein involved in the tnf-alpha and fas apoptosis pathways. deletion analysis indicates that the reversal effect of fip-2 depends on its interaction with e3-14.7k. three major mrna forms of fip-2 have been detected in multiple human tissues  and expression of the transcripts was induced by tnf-alpha treatment in a time-dependent manner in two different cell lines. fip-2 has consensus sequences for several potential posttranslational modifications. these data suggest that fip-2 is one of the cellular targets for ad e3-14.7k and that its mechanism of affecting cell death involves the tnf receptor  rip  or a downstream molecule affected by either of these two molecules.
38,gr-1+cd11b+ myeloid cells tip the balance of immune protection to tumor promotion in the premetastatic lung.,the mechanisms by which a primary tumor affects a selected distant organ before tumor cell arrival remain to be elucidated. this report shows that gr-1+cd11b+ cells are significantly increased in lungs of mice bearing mammary adenocarcinomas before tumor cell arrival. in the premetastatic lungs  these immature myeloid cells significantly decrease ifn-gamma production and increase proinflammatory cytokines. in addition  they produce large quantities of matrix metalloproteinase 9 (mmp9) and promote vascular remodeling. deletion of mmp9 normalizes aberrant vasculature in the premetastatic lung and diminishes lung metastasis. the production and activity of mmp9 is selectively restricted to lungs and organs with a large number of gr-1+cd11b+ cells. our work reveals a novel protumor mechanism for gr-1+cd11b+ cells that changes the premetastatic lung into an inflammatory and proliferative environment  diminishes immune protection  and promotes metastasis through aberrant vasculature formation. thus  inhibition of gr-1+cd11b+ cells could normalize the premetastatic lung environment  improve host immunosurveillance  and inhibit tumor metastasis.
40,distinct rna-dependent rna polymerases are required for rnai triggered by double-stranded rna versus truncated transgenes in paramecium tetraurelia,in many eukaryotes  rna-dependent rna polymerases (rdrps) play key roles in the rnai pathway. they have been implicated in the recognition and processing of aberrant transcripts triggering the process  and in amplification of the silencing response. we have tested the functions of rdrp genes from the ciliate paramecium tetraurelia in experimentally induced and endogenous mechanisms of gene silencing. in this organism  rnai can be triggered either by high-copy  truncated transgenes or by directly feeding cells with double-stranded rna (dsrna). surprisingly  dsrna-induced silencing depends on the putatively functional rdr1 and rdr2 genes  which are required for the accumulation of both primary sirnas and a distinct class of small rnas suggestive of secondary sirnas. in contrast  a third gene with a highly divergent catalytic domain  rdr3  is required for sirna accumulation when rnai is triggered by truncated transgenes. our data further implicate rdr3 in the accumulation of previously described endogenous sirnas and in the regulation of the surface antigen gene family. while only one of these genes is normally expressed in any clonal cell line  the knockdown of rdr3 leads to co-expression of multiple antigens. these results provide evidence for a functional specialization of paramecium rdrp genes in distinct rnai pathways operating during vegetative growth.
42,blood stem cells emerge from aortic endothelium by a novel type of cell transition,the ontogeny of haematopoietic stem cells (hscs) during embryonic development is still highly debated  especially their possible lineage relationship to vascular endothelial cells. the first anatomical site from which cells with long-term hsc potential have been isolated is the aorta-gonad-mesonephros (agm)  more specifically the vicinity of the dorsal aortic floor. but although some authors have presented evidence that hscs may arise directly from the aortic floor into the dorsal aortic lumen  others support the notion that hscs first emerge within the underlying mesenchyme. here we show by non-invasive  high-resolution imaging of live zebrafish embryos  that hscs emerge directly from the aortic floor  through a stereotyped process that does not involve cell division but a strong bending then egress of single endothelial cells from the aortic ventral wall into the sub-aortic space  and their concomitant transformation into haematopoietic cells. the process is polarized not only in the dorso-ventral but also in the rostro-caudal versus medio-lateral direction  and depends on runx1 expression: in runx1-deficient embryos  the exit events are initially similar  but much rarer  and abort into violent death of the exiting cell. these results demonstrate that the aortic floor is haemogenic and that hscs emerge from it into the sub-aortic space  not by asymmetric cell division but through a new type of cell behaviour  which we call an endothelial haematopoietic transition.
44,genetic variation in the interleukin-28b gene is associated with spontaneous clearance and progression of hepatitis c virus in moroccan patients,background genetic variation in the il28b gene has been strongly associated with treatment outcomes  spontaneous clearance and progression of the hepatitis c virus infection (hcv). the aim of the present study was to investigate the role of polymorphisms at this locus with progression and outcome of hcv infection in a moroccan population. methods we analyzed a cohort of 438 individuals among them 232 patients with persistent hcv infection  of whom 115 patients had mild chronic hepatitis and 117 had advanced liver disease (cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma)  68 individuals who had naturally cleared hcv and 138 healthy subjects. the il28b snps rs12979860 and rs8099917 were genotyped using a taqman 5' allelic discrimination assay. results the protective rs12979860-c and rs8099917-t alleles were more common in subjects with spontaneous clearance (77.9% vs 55.2%; p = 0.00001 and 95.6% vs 83.2%; p = 0.0025  respectively). individuals with clearance were 4.69 (95% ci  1.99-11.07) times more likely to have the c/c genotype for rs12979860 polymorphism (p = 0.0017) and 3.55 (95% ci  0.19-66.89) times more likely to have the t/t genotype at rs8099917. patients with advanced liver disease carried the rs12979860-t/t genotype more frequently than patients with mild chronic hepatitis c (or = 1.89; 95% ci  0.99-3.61; p = 0.0532) and this risk was even more pronounced when we compared them with healthy controls (or = 4.27; 95% ci  2.08-8.76; p = 0.0005). the rs8099917-g allele was also associated with advanced liver disease (or = 2.34; 95% ci  1.40-3.93; p = 0.0100). conclusions in the moroccan population  polymorphisms near the il28b gene play a role both in spontaneous clearance and progression of hcv infection.
46,environmental factors that influence the cutaneous production of vitamin d,all vertebrates  including humans  obtain most of their daily vitamin d requirement from casual exposure to sunlight. during exposure to sunlight  the solar ultraviolet b photons (290-315 nm) penetrate into the skin where they cause the photolysis of 7-dehydrocholesterol to precholecalciferol. once formed  precholecalciferol undergoes a thermally induced rearrangement of its double bonds to form cholecalciferol. an increase in skin pigmentation  aging  and the topical application of a sunscreen diminishes the cutaneous production of cholecalciferol. latitude  season  and time of day as well as ozone pollution in the atmosphere influence the number of solar ultraviolet b photons that reach the earth's surface  and thereby  alter the cutaneous production of cholecalciferol. in boston  exposure to sunlight during the months of november through february will not produce any significant amounts of cholecalciferol in the skin. because windowpane glass absorbs ultraviolet b radiation  exposure of sunlight through glass windows will not result in any production of cholecalciferol. it is now recognized that vitamin d insufficiency and vitamin d deficiency are common in elderly people  especially in those who are infirm and not exposed to sunlight or who live at latitudes that do not provide them with sunlight-mediated cholecalciferol during the winter months. vitamin d insufficiency and deficiency exacerbate osteoporosis  cause osteomalacia  and increase the risk of skeletal fractures. vitamin d insufficiency and deficiency can be prevented by encouraging responsible exposure to sunlight and/or consumption of a multivitamin tablet that contains 10 micrograms (400 iu) vitamin d.
48,quantitative detection of hepatitis c virus rna by light cycler pcr and comparison with two different pcr assays,the new light cycler technology was adapted to the detection of hepatitis c virus (hcv) rna in clinical samples. sera from 81 patients were tested by light cycler pcr  amplicor hcv monitor assay  and in-house pcr. our data demonstrate that light cycler is a fast and reliable method for the detection and quantitation of hcv rna.
50,rank signaling links the development of invariant γδ t cell progenitors and aire+ medullary epithelium,the thymic medulla provides a specialized microenvironment for the negative selection of t cells  with the presence of autoimmune regulator (aire)-expressing medullary thymic epithelial cells (mtecs) during the embryonic-neonatal period being both necessary and sufficient to establish long-lasting tolerance. here we showed that emergence of the first cohorts of aire(+) mtecs at this key developmental stage  prior to αβ t cell repertoire selection  was jointly directed by rankl(+) lymphoid tissue inducer cells and invariant vγ5(+) dendritic epidermal t cell (detc) progenitors that are the first thymocytes to express the products of gene rearrangement. in turn  generation of aire(+) mtecs then fostered skint-1-dependent  but aire-independent  detc progenitor maturation and the emergence of an invariant detc repertoire. hence  our data attributed a functional importance to the temporal development of vγ5(+) γδ t cells during thymus medulla formation for αβ t cell tolerance induction and demonstrated a rank-mediated reciprocal link between detc and aire(+) mtec maturation.
52,the stimulatory potency of t cell antigens is influenced by the formation of the immunological synapse.,t cell activation is predicated on the interaction between the t cell receptor and peptide-major histocompatibility (pmhc) ligands. the factors that determine the stimulatory potency of a pmhc molecule remain unclear. we describe results showing that a peptide exhibiting many hallmarks of a weak agonist stimulates t cells to proliferate more than the wild-type agonist ligand. an in silico approach suggested that the inability to form the central supramolecular activation cluster (csmac) could underlie the increased proliferation. this conclusion was supported by experiments that showed that enhancing csmac formation reduced stimulatory capacity of the weak peptide. our studies highlight the fact that a complex interplay of factors determines the quality of a t cell antigen.
54,duration of androgen suppression in the treatment of prostate cancer.,background the combination of radiotherapy plus long-term medical suppression of androgens (> or = 2 years) improves overall survival in patients with locally advanced prostate cancer. we compared the use of radiotherapy plus short-term androgen suppression with the use of radiotherapy plus long-term androgen suppression in the treatment of locally advanced prostate cancer. methods we randomly assigned patients with locally advanced prostate cancer who had received external-beam radiotherapy plus 6 months of androgen suppression to two groups  one to receive no further treatment (short-term suppression) and the other to receive 2.5 years of further treatment with a luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone agonist (long-term suppression). an outcome of noninferiority of short-term androgen suppression as compared with long-term suppression required a hazard ratio of more than 1.35 for overall survival  with a one-sided alpha level of 0.05. an interim analysis showed futility  and the results are presented with an adjusted one-sided alpha level of 0.0429. results a total of 1113 men were registered  of whom 970 were randomly assigned  483 to short-term suppression and 487 to long-term suppression. after a median follow-up of 6.4 years  132 patients in the short-term group and 98 in the long-term group had died; the number of deaths due to prostate cancer was 47 in the short-term group and 29 in the long-term group. the 5-year overall mortality for short-term and long-term suppression was 19.0% and 15.2%  respectively; the observed hazard ratio was 1.42 (upper 95.71% confidence limit  1.79; p=0.65 for noninferiority). adverse events in both groups included fatigue  diminished sexual function  and hot flushes. conclusions the combination of radiotherapy plus 6 months of androgen suppression provides inferior survival as compared with radiotherapy plus 3 years of androgen suppression in the treatment of locally advanced prostate cancer. (clinicaltrials.gov number  nct00003026.)
56,high-infiltration of tumor-associated macrophages predicts unfavorable clinical outcome for node-negative breast cancer,the tumor microenvironment is composed of tumor cells  fibroblasts  endothelial cells and infiltrating immune cells  which may inhibit or promote tumor growth and progression. the objectives of this retrospective study were to characterize the density of tumor-associated macrophages (tams) in breast cancer  and to correlate the density of tams with clinicopathological parameters. paraffin-embedded specimens and clinicopathological data  including up to 5 years follow-up information  were obtained from 172 breast cancer patients. immunohistochemical staining for cd68 (marker for macrophages) was performed and evaluated in a blinded fashion. we found that tams were significantly frequent in high histopathological grade breast cancer patients. breast cancer patients with a high density of tams had significantly lower rates of disease-free survival and 5-year overall survival than patients with low density of tams. furthermore  high-infiltration of tams indicated worse survival rate for patients with node-negative breast cancer. in conclusion  the number of tams in the tumor stroma is an independent predictor of survival time for breast cancer patients. high-infiltration of tams is a significant unfavorable prognostic factor for patients with invasive breast cancer and  as such  is a potentially useful prognostic marker for breast cancer.
58,dynamics of adherens junctions in epithelial establishment  maintenance  and remodeling,the epithelial cadherin (e-cadherin)-catenin complex binds to cytoskeletal components and regulatory and signaling molecules to form a mature adherens junction (aj). this dynamic structure physically connects neighboring epithelial cells  couples intercellular adhesive contacts to the cytoskeleton  and helps define each cell's apical-basal axis. together these activities coordinate the form  polarity  and function of all cells in an epithelium. several molecules regulate aj formation and integrity  including rho family gtpases and par polarity proteins. however  only recently  with the development of live-cell imaging  has the extent to which e-cadherin is actively turned over at junctions begun to be appreciated. this turnover contributes to junction formation and to the maintenance of epithelial integrity during tissue homeostasis and remodeling.
60,zinc 15 – ligand discovery for everyone,many questions about the biological activity and availability of small molecules remain inaccessible to investigators who could most benefit from their answers. to narrow the gap between chemoinformatics and biology  we have developed a suite of ligand annotation  purchasability  target  and biology association tools  incorporated into zinc and meant for investigators who are not computer specialists. the new version contains over 120 million purchasable "drug-like" compounds--effectively all organic molecules that are for sale--a quarter of which are available for immediate delivery. zinc connects purchasable compounds to high-value ones such as metabolites  drugs  natural products  and annotated compounds from the literature. compounds may be accessed by the genes for which they are annotated as well as the major and minor target classes to which those genes belong. it offers new analysis tools that are easy for nonspecialists yet with few limitations for experts. zinc retains its original 3d roots--all molecules are available in biologically relevant  ready-to-dock formats. zinc is freely available at http://zinc15.docking.org.
62,efficacy of the 6-month thrice-weekly regimen in the treatment of new sputum smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis under clinical trial conditions.,background under the revised national tuberculosis control programme of india  patients with new smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis are treated with a thrice-weekly regimen of antitubercular drugs (2h(3)r(3)z(3)e(3)/4h(3)r(3) [h isoniazid  r rifampicin  z pyrazinamide and e ethambutol]) for 6 months. we conducted a retrospective analysis of the efficacy andtolerability of this regimen under clinical trial conditions in hiv-negative patients with newly diagnosed smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis. methods we retrospectively analysed the data on patients assigned to the control regimen (2h (3)r(3)z(3)e(3)/4h(3)r(3)) in two clinical trials during 2001-06 at the national institute for research in tuberculosis  chennai  india. results of the 268 patients treated with this regimen  data for efficacy analysis were available for 249. at the end of treatment  of 249 patients  238 (96%) had a favourable status. treatment failure occurred in the remaining 11: 7 in whom the organisms were initially drug-susceptible and 4 with initial drug resistance. of the 238 patients who had a favourable status at the end of treatment  14 (6%) had recurrence of tuberculosis during the following 24 months. in the intention-to-treat analysis  245 (94%) of 262 patients had a favourable status at the end of treatment. of the 28 patients with initial drug resistance  24 (86%) had a favourable outcome. only 4 of these 24 patients were found to have recurrence of tuberculosis in 2 years of follow-up. among the 221 patients initially infected with drug-susceptible organisms  drug resistance did not develop in any of the 7 patients in whom the treatment failed or the 10 who had recurrence of tuberculosis. further  5 of the 7 patients in whom the treatment failed continued to excrete drug-susceptible bacilli at 6 months. adverse drug reactions were observed in 38 (14%) of the 262 patients. only 3 (1.1%) needed a modification in the treatment. conclusion this thrice-weekly 6-month regimen of antitubercular drugs  when administered under full supervision  is associated with a high rate of favourable treatment outcomes in hiv-negative patients with newly diagnosed sputum smearpositive pulmonary tuberculosis. there are few adverse drug reactions in these patients.
64,loss of igf-iea or igf-ieb impairs myogenic differentiation.,actions of protein products resulting from alternative splicing of the igf1 gene have received increasing attention in recent years. however  the significance and functional relevance of these observations remain poorly defined. to address functions of igf-i splice variants  we examined the impact of loss of igf-iea and igf-ieb on the proliferation and differentiation of cultured mouse myoblasts. rna interference-mediated reductions in total igf-i  igf-iea alone  or igf-ieb alone had no effect on cell viability in growth medium. however  cells deficient in total igf-i or igf-iea alone proliferated significantly slower than control cells or cells deficient in igf-ieb in serum-free media. simultaneous loss of both or specific loss of either splice variant significantly inhibited myosin heavy chain (myhc) immunoreactivity by 70-80% (p < 0.01) under differentiation conditions (48 h in 2% horse serum) as determined by western immunoblotting. this loss in protein was associated with reduced myhc isoform mrnas  because reductions in total igf-i or igf-iea mrna significantly reduced myhc mrnas by approximately 50-75% (p < 0.05). loss of igf-ieb also reduced myhc isoform mrna significantly  with the exception of myh7  but to a lesser degree (∼20-40%  p < 0.05). provision of mature igf-i  but not synthetic e peptides  restored myh3 expression to control levels in cells deficient in igf-iea or igf-ieb. collectively  these data suggest that igf-i splice variants may regulate myoblast differentiation through the actions of mature igf-i and not the e peptides.
66,outcome of pregnancy in women with moderate or severe renal insufficiency.,background pregnant women with mild preexisting renal disease have relatively few complications of pregnancy  but the risks of maternal and obstetrical complications in women with moderate or severe renal insufficiency remain uncertain. methods we determined the frequency and types of maternal and obstetrical complications and the outcomes of pregnancy in 67 women with primary renal disease (82 pregnancies). all the women had initial serum creatinine concentrations of at least 1.4 mg per deciliter (124 mumol per liter) and gestations that continued beyond the first trimester. results the mean (+/- sd) serum creatinine concentration increased from 1.9 +/- 0.8 mg per deciliter (168 +/- 71 mumol per liter) in early pregnancy to 2.5 +/- 1.3 mg per deciliter (221 +/- 115 mumol per liter) in the third trimester. the frequency of hypertension rose from 28 percent at base line to 48 percent in the third trimester  and that of high-grade proteinuria (urinary protein excretion  > 3000 mg per liter) from 23 percent to 41 percent. for the 70 pregnancies (57 women) for which data were available during pregnancy and immediately post partum  pregnancy-related loss of maternal renal function occurred in 43 percent. eight of these pregnancies (10 percent of the total) were associated with rapid acceleration of maternal renal insufficiency. obstetrical complications included a high rate of preterm delivery (59 percent) and growth retardation (37 percent). the infant survival rate was 93 percent. conclusions among pregnant women with moderate or severe renal insufficiency  the rates of complications due to worsening renal function  hypertension  and obstetrical complications are increased  but fetal survival is high.
68,ribosys  a high-resolution  quantitative approach to measure the in vivo kinetics of pre-mrna splicing and 3'-end processing in saccharomyces cerevisiae.,we describe methods for obtaining a quantitative description of rna processing at high resolution in budding yeast. as a model gene expression system  we constructed teton (for induction studies) and tetoff (for repression  derepression  and rna degradation studies) yeast strains with a series of reporter genes integrated in the genome under the control of a teto7 promoter. reverse transcription and quantitative real-time-pcr (rt-qpcr) methods were adapted to allow the determination of mrna abundance as the average number of copies per cell in a population. fluorescence in situ hybridization (fish) measurements of transcript numbers in individual cells validated the rt-qpcr approach for the average copy-number determination despite the broad distribution of transcript levels within a population of cells. in addition  rt-qpcr was used to distinguish the products of the different steps in splicing of the reporter transcripts  and methods were developed to map and quantify 3'-end cleavage and polyadenylation. this system permits pre-mrna production  splicing  3'-end maturation and degradation to be quantitatively monitored with unprecedented kinetic detail  suitable for mathematical modeling. using this approach  we demonstrate that reporter transcripts are spliced prior to their 3'-end cleavage and polyadenylation  that is  cotranscriptionally.
70,a triple-stain flow cytometric method to assess plasma- and acrosome-membrane integrity of cryopreserved bovine sperm immediately after thawing in presence of egg-yolk particles1,abstract simultaneously evaluating postthaw viability and acrosome integrity of spermatozoa by flow cytometry would provide a valuable testing tool in both research and routine work. in the present study  a new triple-stain combination was developed for the simultaneous evaluation of viability and acrosome integrity of bovine sperm processed in egg yolk-based extender by flow cytometer. sybr-14 and propidium iodide (pi) enabled the discrimination of sperm cells from egg yolk and debris particles  which was instrumental for the flow cytometric analyses of frozen-thawed bovine sperm  because it implied that washing steps to remove egg yolk were no longer required. in addition  phycoerythrin-conjugated peanut agglutinin (pe-pna) was used to discriminate acrosome-damaged/reacted sperm cells from acrosome-intact cells. repeatability was calculated using two processed ejaculates of 10 bulls. three straws per batch were analyzed in duplicate measurements. method-agreement analysis between the sybr-14/pe-pna/pi and fluorescein isothiocyanate (fitc)-conjugated pna was performed  with fitc-pna/pi staining being carried out on 14 frozen-thawed semen samples immediately after thawing and after a 3-h incubation at 37°c. the british standards institution repeatability index of the sybr-14/pe-pna/pi combination was 2.6%. on average  the fitc-pna/pi method showed a 6.3% overestimation of the live and acrosome-intact sperm cell subpopulation. in conclusion  the new triple-stain combination is highly repeatable and easy to use in routine application  and it provides a more precise estimate for the rate of sperm cells with intact head membrane and acrosome compared to the generally used and validated fitc-pna/pi staining.
72,common variants in dgkk are strongly associated with risk of hypospadias,hypospadias is a common congenital malformation of the male external genitalia. we performed a genome-wide association study using pooled dna from 436 individuals with hypospadias (cases) and 494 controls of european descent and selected the highest ranked snps for individual genotyping in the discovery sample  an additional dutch sample of 133 cases and their parents  and a swedish series of 266 cases and 402 controls. individual genotyping of two snps (rs1934179 and rs7063116) in dgkk  encoding diacylglycerol kinase κ  produced compelling evidence for association with hypospadias in the discovery sample (allele-specific odds ratio (or) = 2.5  p = 2.5 × 10−11 and or = 2.3  p = 2.9 × 10−9  respectively) and in the dutch (or = 3.9  p = 2.4 × 10−5 and or = 3.8  p = 3.4 × 10−5) and swedish (or = 2.5  p = 2.6 × 10−8 and or = 2.2  p = 2.7 × 10−6) replication samples. expression studies showed expression of dgkk in preputial tissue of cases and controls  which was lower in carriers of the risk allele of rs1934179 (p = 0.047). we propose dgkk as a major risk gene for hypospadias.
74,high km soluble 5'-nucleotidase from human placenta. properties and allosteric regulation by imp and atp.,a human placental soluble "high km" 5'-nucleotidase has been separated from "low km" 5'-nucleotidase and nonspecific phosphatase by amp-sepharose affinity chromatography. the enzyme was purified 8000-fold to a specific activity of 25.6 mumol/min/mg. the subunit molecular mass is 53 kda  and the native molecular mass is 210 kda  suggesting a tetrameric structure. soluble high km 5'-nucleotidase is most active with imp and gmp and their deoxy derivatives. imp is hydrolyzed 15 times faster than amp. the enzyme has a virtually absolute requirement for magnesium ions and is regulated by them. purine nucleoside 5'-triphosphates strongly activate the enzyme with the potency order datp greater than atp greater than gtp. 2 3-diphosphoglycerate activates the enzyme as potently as atp. three millimolar atp decreased the km for imp from 0.33 to 0.09 mm and increased the vmax 12-fold. atp activation was modified by the imp concentration. at 20 microm imp the atp-dependent activation curve was sigmoidal  while at 2 mm imp it was hyperbolic. the a0.5 values for atp were 2.26 and 0.70 mm  and the relative maximal velocities were 32.9 and 126.0 nmol/min  respectively. inorganic phosphate shifts the hyperbolic substrate velocity relationship for imp to a sigmoidal one. with physiological concentrations of cofactors (3 mm atp  1-4 mm pi  150 mm kcl) at ph 7.4  the enzyme is 25-35 times more active toward 100 microm imp than 100 microm amp. these data show that: (a) soluble human placental high km 5'-nucleotidase coexists in human placenta with the low km enzyme; (b) under physiological conditions the enzyme favors the hydrolysis of imp and is critically regulated by imp  atp  and pi levels; and (c) kinetic properties of atp and imp are each modified by the other compound suggesting complex interaction of the associated binding sites.
76,national study of physician awareness and adherence to cardiovascular disease prevention guidelines.,background few data have evaluated physician adherence to cardiovascular disease (cvd) prevention guidelines according to physician specialty or patient characteristics  particularly gender. methods and results an online study of 500 randomly selected physicians (300 primary care physicians  100 obstetricians/gynecologists  and 100 cardiologists) used a standardized questionnaire to assess awareness of  adoption of  and barriers to national cvd prevention guidelines by specialty. an experimental case study design tested physician accuracy and determinants of cvd risk level assignment and application of guidelines among high-  intermediate-  or low-risk patients. intermediate-risk women  as assessed by the framingham risk score  were significantly more likely to be assigned to a lower-risk category by primary care physicians than men with identical risk profiles (p<0.0001)  and trends were similar for obstetricians/gynecologists and cardiologists. assignment of risk level significantly predicted recommendations for lifestyle and preventive pharmacotherapy. after adjustment for risk assignment  the impact of patient gender on preventive care was not significant except for less aspirin (p<0.01) and more weight management recommended (p<0.04) for intermediate-risk women. physicians did not rate themselves as very effective in their ability to help patients prevent cvd. fewer than 1 in 5 physicians knew that more women than men die each year from cvd. conclusions perception of risk was the primary factor associated with cvd preventive recommendations. gender disparities in recommendations for preventive therapy were explained largely by the lower perceived risk despite similar calculated risk for women versus men. educational interventions for physicians are needed to improve the quality of cvd preventive care and lower morbidity and mortality from cvd for men and women.
78,pathway connectivity and signaling coordination in the yeast stress-activated signaling network,stressed cells coordinate a multi-faceted response spanning many levels of physiology. yet knowledge of the complete stress-activated regulatory network as well as design principles for signal integration remains incomplete. we developed an experimental and computational approach to integrate available protein interaction data with gene fitness contributions  mutant transcriptome profiles  and phospho-proteome changes in cells responding to salt stress  to infer the salt-responsive signaling network in yeast. the inferred subnetwork presented many novel predictions by implicating new regulators  uncovering unrecognized crosstalk between known pathways  and pointing to previously unknown 'hubs' of signal integration. we exploited these predictions to show that cdc14 phosphatase is a central hub in the network and that modification of rna polymerase ii coordinates induction of stress-defense genes with reduction of growth-related transcripts. we find that the orthologous human network is enriched for cancer-causing genes  underscoring the importance of the subnetwork's predictions in understanding stress biology.
80,implementing the eshre 'poor responder' criteria in research studies: methodological implications.,the bologna criteria for defining poor ovarian response (por) during ivf provide a useful template for new research in this field of assisted conception. however  designing studies around the european society for human reproduction and embryology por criteria can be methodologically challenging  as the new definition includes various por subpopulations with diverse baseline characteristics and unknown clinical prognosis. when designing rcts  potential result bias may be introduced if women from each subpopulation are not evenly allocated between intervention groups. in the case of small or moderate-size rcts  a single-sequence randomization method may not ensure balanced allocation between groups. stratified randomization methods provide an alternative methodological approach. depending on the chosen methodology  patient characteristics and outcomes within each intervention group may be better reported according to relevant subpopulations.
82,uridylation of mirnas by hen1 suppressor1 in arabidopsis,hen1-mediated 2'-o-methylation has been shown to be a key mechanism to protect plant micrornas (mirnas) and small interfering rnas (sirnas) as well as animal piwi-interacting rnas (pirnas) from degradation and 3' terminal uridylation [1-8]. however  enzymes uridylating unmethylated mirnas  sirnas  or pirnas in hen1 are unknown. in this study  a genetic screen identified a second-site mutation hen1 suppressor1-2 (heso1-2) that partially suppresses the morphological phenotypes of the hypomorphic hen1-2 allele and the null hen1-1 allele in arabidopsis. heso1 encodes a terminal nucleotidyl transferase that prefers to add untemplated uridine to the 3' end of rna  which is completely abolished by 2'-o-methylation. heso1-2 affects the profile of u-tailed mirnas and sirnas and increases the abundance of truncated and/or normal sized ones in hen1  which often results in increased total amount of mirnas and sirnas in hen1. in contrast  overexpressing heso1 in hen1-2 causes more severe morphological defects and less accumulation of mirnas. these results demonstrate that heso1 is an enzyme uridylating unmethylated mirnas and sirnas in hen1. these observations also suggest that uridylation may destabilize unmethylated mirnas through an unknown mechanism and compete with 3'-to-5' exoribonuclease activities in hen1. this study shall have implications on pirna uridylation in hen1 in animals.
84,prepregnancy bmi and the risk of gestational diabetes: a systematic review of the literature with meta-analysis.,the objective of this study is to assess and quantify the risk for gestational diabetes mellitus (gdm) according to prepregnancy maternal body mass index (bmi). the design is a systematic review of observational studies published in the last 30 years. four electronic databases were searched for publications (1977-2007). bmi was elected as the only measure of obesity  and all diagnostic criteria for gdm were accepted. studies with selective screening for gdm were excluded. there were no language restrictions. the methodological quality of primary studies was assessed. some 1745 citations were screened  and 70 studies (two unpublished) involving 671 945 women were included (59 cohorts and 11 case-controls). most studies were of high or medium quality. compared with women with a normal bmi  the unadjusted pooled odds ratio (or) of an underweight woman developing gdm was 0.75 (95% confidence interval [ci] 0.69 to 0.82). the or for overweight  moderately obese and morbidly obese women were 1.97 (95% ci 1.77 to 2.19)  3.01 (95% ci 2.34 to 3.87) and 5.55 (95% ci 4.27 to 7.21) respectively. for every 1 kg m(-2) increase in bmi  the prevalence of gdm increased by 0.92% (95% ci 0.73 to 1.10). the risk of gdm is positively associated with prepregnancy bmi. this information is important when counselling women planning a pregnancy.
86,variations and trends in health burden of visual impairment due to cataract: a global analysis.,purpose to evaluate the global trends in health burden of people visually impaired from cataract in terms of disability-adjusted life years (daly) and its correlations with national levels of socioeconomic development. methods global  regional  and national daly numbers  crude rate  and age-standardized rate of cataract vision loss by age and sex were obtained from the database of the global burden of disease study 2015. the human development index  per capita gross domestic product  and other country-level data were derived from international open databases. regression analysis was used to assess the correlations between age-standardized daly rate and socioeconomic variables. results the global daly numbers of cataract vision loss increased by 89.42%  from 2048.18 (95%ci [confidence interval]: 1457.60-2761.80) thousands in 1990 to 3879.74 (95% ci: 2766.07-5232.43) thousands in 2015 (p < 0.001). females had higher daly number 315.83 (95%ci: 237.17-394.4) and crude rate 38.29 (95%ci: 35.35-41.23) after adjusting for age and country (all p < 0.001). the age-standardized daly rate was higher in countries with low human development index (hdi)  with 91.03 (95%ci: 73.04-108.75) for low hdi  81.67 (95%ci: 53.24-108.82) for medium hdi  55.89 (95%ci: 36.87-69.63) for high hdi  and 17.10 (95%ci: 13.91-26.84) for very high hdi countries (p < 0.01)  respectively. the national age-standardized daly rates in 2015 were negatively associated with both hdi (r2 = 0.489  p < 0.001) and per capita gross domestic product (r2 = 0.331  p < 0.001). stepwise multiple regression showed that hdi was significantly correlated with national age-standardized daly rates in 2015 after adjusting for other confounding factors (p < 0.001). conclusions the global health burden of vision loss due to cataract increased between 1990 and 2015 despite considerable efforts from the world health organization and vision 2020 initiatives.
88,transformation of intact yeast cells treated with alkali cations.,intact yeast cells treated with alkali cations took up plasmid dna. li+  cs+  rb+  k+  and na+ were effective in inducing competence. conditions for the transformation of saccharomyces cerevisiae d13-1a with plasmid yrp7 were studied in detail with cscl. the optimum incubation time was 1 h  and the optimum cell concentration was 5 x 10(7) cells per ml. the optimum concentration of cs+ was 1.0 m. transformation efficiency increased with increasing concentrations of plasmid dna. polyethylene glycol was absolutely required. heat pulse and various polyamines or basic proteins stimulated the uptake of plasmid dna. besides circular dna  linear plasmid dna was also taken up by cs+-treated yeast cells  although the uptake efficiency was considerably reduced. the transformation efficiency with cs+ or li+ was comparable with that of conventional protoplast methods for a plasmid containing ars1  although not for plasmids containing a 2 microns origin replication.
90,memory and modularity in cell-fate decision making,genetically identical cells sharing an environment can display markedly different phenotypes. it is often unclear how much of this variation derives from chance  external signals  or attempts by individual cells to exert autonomous phenotypic programs. by observing thousands of cells for hundreds of consecutive generations under constant conditions  we dissect the stochastic decision between a solitary  motile state and a chained  sessile state in bacillus subtilis. we show that the motile state is 'memoryless'  exhibiting no autonomous control over the time spent in the state. in contrast  the time spent as connected chains of cells is tightly controlled  enforcing coordination among related cells in the multicellular state. we show that the three-protein regulatory circuit governing the decision is modular  as initiation and maintenance of chaining are genetically separable functions. as stimulation of the same initiating pathway triggers biofilm formation  we argue that autonomous timing allows a trial commitment to multicellularity that external signals could extend.
92,identification of p18 ink4c as a tumor suppressor gene in glioblastoma multiforme.,genomic alterations leading to aberrant activation of cyclin/cyclin-dependent kinase (cdk) complexes drive the pathogenesis of many common human tumor types. in the case of glioblastoma multiforme (gbm)  these alterations are most commonly due to homozygous deletion of p16(ink4a) and less commonly due to genomic amplifications of individual genes encoding cyclins or cdks. here  we describe deletion of the p18(ink4c) cdk inhibitor as a novel genetic alteration driving the pathogenesis of gbm. deletions of p18(ink4c) often occurred in tumors also harboring homozygous deletions of p16(ink4a). expression of p18(ink4c) was completely absent in 43% of gbm primary tumors studied by immunohistochemistry. lentiviral reconstitution of p18(ink4c) expression at physiologic levels in p18(ink4c)-deficient but not p18(ink4c)-proficient gbm cells led to senescence-like g(1) cell cycle arrest. these studies identify p18(ink4c) as a gbm tumor suppressor gene  revealing an additional mechanism leading to aberrant activation of cyclin/cdk complexes in this terrible malignancy.
94,air pollution and cardiovascular disease: a statement for healthcare professionals from the expert panel on population and prevention science of the american heart association.,air pollution is a heterogeneous  complex mixture of gases  liquids  and particulate matter. epidemiological studies have demonstrated a consistent increased risk for cardiovascular events in relation to both short- and long-term exposure to present-day concentrations of ambient particulate matter. several plausible mechanistic pathways have been described  including enhanced coagulation/thrombosis  a propensity for arrhythmias  acute arterial vasoconstriction  systemic inflammatory responses  and the chronic promotion of atherosclerosis. the purpose of this statement is to provide healthcare professionals and regulatory agencies with a comprehensive review of the literature on air pollution and cardiovascular disease. in addition  the implications of these findings in relation to public health and regulatory policies are addressed. practical recommendations for healthcare providers and their patients are outlined. in the final section  suggestions for future research are made to address a number of remaining scientific questions.
96,case management and client access to health and social services in outpatient substance abuse treatment,a primary goal of case management is to coordinate services across treatment settings and to integrate substance abuse services with other types of services offered in the community  including housing  mental health  medical  and social services. however  case management is a global construct that consists of several key dimensions  which include extent of case management coverage  the degree of management of the referral process  and the location of case management activity (on-site  off-site  or both). this study examines the relationship between specific dimensions of case management and the utilization of health and ancillary social services in outpatient substance abuse treatment. in general  results suggest that more active case management during the referral process and providing case management both on-site and off-site are most consistent with our predictions of greater use of health and ancillary social services by substance abuse clients. however  these effects are specific to general health care and mental health services. case management appears to have little effect on use of social services or aftercare plans.
98,critical review cutaneous vasculitis update: diagnostic criteria ,vasculitis  inflammation of the vessel wall  can result in mural destruction with hemorrhage  aneurysm formation  and infarction  or intimal-medial hyperplasia and subsequent stenosis leading to tissue ischemia. the skin  in part due to its large vascular bed  exposure to cold temperatures  and frequent presence of stasis  is involved in many distinct as well as un-named vasculitic syndromes that vary from localized and self-limited to generalized and life-threatening with multi-organ disease. to exclude mimics of vasculitis  diagnosis of cutaneous vasculitis requires biopsy confirmation where its acute signs (fibrinoid necrosis)  chronic signs (endarteritis obliterans)  or past signs (acellular scar of healed arteritis) must be recognized and presence of extravascular findings such as patterned fibrosis or collagenolytic granulomas noted. although vasculitis can be classified by etiology  many cases have no identifiable cause  and a single etiologic agent can elicit several distinct clinicopathologic expressions of vasculitis. therefore  the classification of cutaneous vasculitis is best approached morphologically by determining vessel size and principal inflammatory response. these histologic patterns roughly correlate with pathogenic mechanisms that  when coupled with direct immunofluorescent examination  anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (anca) status  and findings from work-up for systemic disease  allow for specific diagnosis  and ultimately  more effective therapy. herein  we review cutaneous vasculitis focusing on diagnostic criteria  classification  epidemiology  etiology  pathogenesis  and evaluation of the cutaneous vasculitis patient.
100,chemical approaches to stem cell biology and therapeutics.,small molecules that modulate stem cell fate and function offer significant opportunities that will allow the full realization of the therapeutic potential of stem cells. rational design and screening for small molecules have identified useful compounds to probe fundamental mechanisms of stem cell self-renewal  differentiation  and reprogramming and have facilitated the development of cell-based therapies and therapeutic drugs targeting endogenous stem and progenitor cells for repair and regeneration. here  we will discuss recent scientific and therapeutic progress  as well as new perspectives and future challenges for using chemical approaches in stem cell biology and regenerative medicine.
102,oncofetal long noncoding rna pvt1 promotes proliferation and stem cell-like property of hepatocellular carcinoma cells by stabilizing nop2.,unlabelled many protein-coding oncofetal genes are highly expressed in murine and human fetal liver and silenced in adult liver. the protein products of these hepatic oncofetal genes have been used as clinical markers for the recurrence of hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) and as therapeutic targets for hcc. herein we examined the expression profiles of long noncoding rnas (lncrnas) found in fetal and adult liver in mice. many fetal hepatic lncrnas were identified; one of these  lncrna-mpvt1  is an oncofetal rna that was found to promote cell proliferation  cell cycling  and the expression of stem cell-like properties of murine cells. interestingly  we found that human lncrna-hpvt1 was up-regulated in hcc tissues and that patients with higher lncrna-hpvt1 expression had a poor clinical prognosis. the protumorigenic effects of lncrna-hpvt1 on cell proliferation  cell cycling  and stem cell-like properties of hcc cells were confirmed both in vitro and in vivo by gain-of-function and loss-of-function experiments. moreover  mrna expression profile data showed that lncrna-hpvt1 up-regulated a series of cell cycle genes in smmc-7721 cells. by rna pulldown and mass spectrum experiments  we identified nop2 as an rna-binding protein that binds to lncrna-hpvt1. we confirmed that lncrna-hpvt1 up-regulated nop2 by enhancing the stability of nop2 proteins and that lncrna-hpvt1 function depends on the presence of nop2. conclusion our study demonstrates that the expression of many lncrnas is up-regulated in early liver development and that the fetal liver can be used to search for new diagnostic markers for hcc. lncrna-hpvt1 promotes cell proliferation  cell cycling  and the acquisition of stem cell-like properties in hcc cells by stabilizing nop2 protein. regulation of the lncrna-hpvt1/nop2 pathway may have beneficial effects on the treatment of hcc.
104,anktm1  a trp-like channel expressed in nociceptive neurons  is activated by cold temperatures,mammals detect temperature with specialized neurons in the peripheral nervous system. four trpv-class channels have been implicated in sensing heat  and one trpm-class channel in sensing cold. the combined range of temperatures that activate these channels covers a majority of the relevant physiological spectrum sensed by most mammals  with a significant gap in the noxious cold range. here  we describe the characterization of anktm1  a cold-activated channel with a lower activation temperature compared to the cold and menthol receptor  trpm8. anktm1 is a distant family member of trp channels with very little amino acid similarity to trpm8. it is found in a subset of nociceptive sensory neurons where it is coexpressed with trpv1/vr1 (the capsaicin/heat receptor) but not trpm8. consistent with the expression of anktm1  we identify noxious cold-sensitive sensory neurons that also respond to capsaicin but not to menthol.
106,dna deamination mediates innate immunity to retroviral infection,cem15/apobec3g is a cellular protein required for resistance to infection by virion infectivity factor (vif)-deficient human immunodeficiency virus (hiv). here  using a murine leukemia virus (mlv)-based system  we provide evidence that cem15/apobec3g is a dna deaminase that is incorporated into virions during viral production and subsequently triggers massive deamination of deoxycytidine to deoxyuridine within the retroviral minus (first)-strand cdna  thus providing a probable trigger for viral destruction. furthermore  hiv vif can protect mlv from this cem15/apobec3g-dependent restriction. these findings imply that targeted dna deamination is a major strategy of innate immunity to retroviruses and likely also contributes to the sequence variation observed in many viruses (including hiv).
108,adverse drug events: database construction and in silico prediction.,adverse drug events (ades) are the harms associated with uses of given medications at normal dosages  which are crucial for a drug to be approved in clinical use or continue to stay on the market. many ades are not identified in trials until the drug is approved for clinical use  which results in adverse morbidity and mortality. to date  millions of ades have been reported around the world. methods to avoid or reduce ades are an important issue for drug discovery and development. here  we reported a comprehensive database of adverse drug events (namely metaadedb)  which included more than 520 000 drug-ade associations among 3059 unique compounds (including 1330 drugs) and 13 200 ade items by data integration and text mining. all compounds and ades were annotated with the most commonly used concepts defined in medical subject headings (mesh). meanwhile  a computational method  namely the phenotypic network inference model (pnim)  was developed for prediction of potential ades based on the database. the area under the receive operating characteristic curve (auc) is more than 0.9 by 10-fold cross validation  while the auc value was 0.912 for an external validation set extracted from the us-fda adverse events reporting system  which indicated that the prediction capability of the method was reliable. metaadedb is accessible free of charge at http://www.lmmd.org/online_services/metaadedb/. the database and the method provide us a useful tool to search for known side effects or predict potential side effects for a given drug or compound.
110,deficiency and pharmacological stabilization of mast cells reduce diet-induced obesity and diabetes in mice,although mast cell functions have classically been related to allergic responses  recent studies indicate that these cells contribute to other common diseases such as multiple sclerosis  rheumatoid arthritis  atherosclerosis  aortic aneurysm and cancer. this study presents evidence that mast cells also contribute to diet-induced obesity and diabetes. for example  white adipose tissue (wat) from obese humans and mice contain more mast cells than wat from their lean counterparts. furthermore  in the context of mice on a western diet  genetically induced deficiency of mast cells  or their pharmacological stabilization  reduces body weight gain and levels of inflammatory cytokines  chemokines and proteases in serum and wat  in concert with improved glucose homeostasis and energy expenditure. mechanistic studies reveal that mast cells contribute to wat and muscle angiogenesis and associated cell apoptosis and cathepsin activity. adoptive transfer experiments of cytokine-deficient mast cells show that these cells  by producing interleukin-6 (il-6) and interferon-gamma (ifn-gamma)  contribute to mouse adipose tissue cysteine protease cathepsin expression  apoptosis and angiogenesis  thereby promoting diet-induced obesity and glucose intolerance. our results showing reduced obesity and diabetes in mice treated with clinically available mast cell-stabilizing agents suggest the potential of developing new therapies for these common human metabolic disorders.
112,endosome-er contacts control actin nucleation and retromer function through vap-dependent regulation of pi4p,vap (vapa and vapb) is an evolutionarily conserved endoplasmic reticulum (er)-anchored protein that helps generate tethers between the er and other membranes through which lipids are exchanged across adjacent bilayers. here  we report that by regulating pi4p levels on endosomes  vap affects wash-dependent actin nucleation on these organelles and the function of the retromer  a protein coat responsible for endosome-to-golgi traffic. vap is recruited to retromer budding sites on endosomes via an interaction with the retromer snx2 subunit. cells lacking vap accumulate high levels of pi4p  actin comets  and trans-golgi proteins on endosomes. such defects are mimicked by downregulation of osbp  a vap interactor and pi4p transporter that participates in vap-dependent er-endosomes tethers. these results reveal a role of pi4p in retromer-/wash-dependent budding from endosomes. collectively  our data show how the er can control budding dynamics and association with the cytoskeleton of another membrane by direct contacts leading to bilayer lipid modifications.
114,human t cell leukemia virus reactivation with progression of adult t-cell leukemia-lymphoma,background human t-cell leukemia virus-associated adult t-cell leukemia-lymphoma (atll) has a very poor prognosis  despite trials of a variety of different treatment regimens. virus expression has been reported to be limited or absent when atll is diagnosed  and this has suggested that secondary genetic or epigenetic changes are important in disease pathogenesis. methods and findings we prospectively investigated combination chemotherapy followed by antiretroviral therapy for this disorder. nineteen patients were prospectively enrolled between 2002 and 2006 at five medical centers in a phase ii clinical trial of infusional chemotherapy with etoposide  doxorubicin  and vincristine  daily prednisone  and bolus cyclophosphamide (epoch) given for two to six cycles until maximal clinical response  and followed by antiviral therapy with daily zidovudine  lamivudine  and alpha interferon-2a for up to one year. seven patients were on study for less than one month due to progressive disease or chemotherapy toxicity. eleven patients achieved an objective response with median duration of response of thirteen months  and two complete remissions. during chemotherapy induction  viral rna expression increased (median 190-fold)  and virus replication occurred  coincident with development of disease progression. conclusions epoch chemotherapy followed by antiretroviral therapy is an active therapeutic regimen for adult t-cell leukemia-lymphoma  but viral reactivation during induction chemotherapy may contribute to treatment failure. alternative therapies are sorely needed in this disease that simultaneously prevent virus expression  and are cytocidal for malignant cells.
116,control of assembly and function of glutamate receptors by the amino-terminal domain.,the extracellular amino-terminal domains (atds) of the ionotropic glutamate receptor subunits form a semiautonomous component of all glutamate receptors that resides distal to the membrane and controls a surprisingly diverse set of receptor functions. these functions include subunit assembly  receptor trafficking  channel gating  agonist potency  and allosteric modulation. the many divergent features of the different ionotropic glutamate receptor classes and different subunits within a class may stem from differential regulation by the amino-terminal domains. the emerging knowledge of the structure and function of the amino-terminal domains reviewed here may enable targeting of this region for the therapeutic modulation of glutamatergic signaling. toward this end  nmda receptor antagonists that interact with the glun2b atd show promise in animal models of ischemia  neuropathic pain  and parkinson's disease.
118,centrifugal elutriation as a method for isolation of large numbers of functionally intact human peripheral blood monocytes.,centrifugal elutriation was used further to isolate human peripheral blood monocytes (hpbm) from mononuclear-enriched cells harvested as a secondary component following platelet concentration collection samples. hpbm were recovered in either one or two populations consisting of either total hpbm or small (sm) and large monocytes (lm). the elutriation was carried out at 3 500 +/- 5 rpm for the separation of lymphocytes and hpbm in ca++- and mg++-free pbs without edta. an average of 5.05 +/- 1.50 x 10(8) hpbm were recovered in the total hpbm with a purity of 95% +/- 3%. the sm and lm were obtained by splitting the total hpbm into two equal populations with an hpbm purity of 92% +/- 3% and 93% +/- 3  respectively  by nonspecific esterase staining. the elutriation media were shown to have no effect on viability by trypan blue exclusion. all three hpbm populations were shown to be histochemically (lack of reactivity to leu-1 and leu-7) and functionally (depletion of nk cell activity) purified from the lymphocyte population. the hpbm populations were enriched in hla-dr  okm-1  okm-5  my-8  and leu m-3 monoclonal antibody marker staining. there were no differences in percent positive cells between sm and lm populations for any of the monocyte-specific monoclonal antibodies. all three monocyte populations mediated antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity to human red blood cells  with lm mediating more lysis (27.0% +/- 5%) than sm (7% +/- 3%).(abstract truncated at 250 words)
120,relapse specific mutations in nt5c2 in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia,relapsed childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) carries a poor prognosis  despite intensive retreatment  owing to intrinsic drug resistance. the biological pathways that mediate resistance are unknown. here  we report the transcriptome profiles of matched diagnosis and relapse bone marrow specimens from ten individuals with pediatric b-lymphoblastic leukemia using rna sequencing. transcriptome sequencing identified 20 newly acquired  novel nonsynonymous mutations not present at initial diagnosis  with 2 individuals harboring relapse-specific mutations in the same gene  nt5c2  encoding a 5'-nucleotidase. full-exon sequencing of nt5c2 was completed in 61 further relapse specimens  identifying additional mutations in 5 cases. enzymatic analysis of mutant proteins showed that base substitutions conferred increased enzymatic activity and resistance to treatment with nucleoside analog therapies. clinically  all individuals who harbored nt5c2 mutations relapsed early  within 36 months of initial diagnosis (p = 0.03). these results suggest that mutations in nt5c2 are associated with the outgrowth of drug-resistant clones in all.
122,involvement of cb1 cannabinoid receptors in emotional behaviour,rationale: endogenous and exogenous cannabinoids acting through the cb1 cannabinoid receptors are implicated in the control of a variety of behavioural and neuroendocrine functions  including emotional responses  and learning and memory processes. recently  knockout mice deficient in the cb1 cannabinoid receptor have been generated  and these animals result in an excellent tool to evaluate the neurophysiology of the endogenous cannabinoid system. objectives: to establish the role of the cb1 cannabinoid receptor in several emotional-related behavioural responses  including aggressiveness  anxiety  depression and learning models  using cb1 knockout mice. methods: we evaluated the spontaneous responses of cb1 knockout mice and wild-type controls under different behavioural paradigms  including the light/dark box  the chronic unpredictable mild stress  the resident–intruder test and the active avoidance paradigm. results: our findings showed that cb1 knockout mice presented an increase in the aggressive response measured in the resident–intruder test and an anxiogenic-like response in the light/dark box. furthermore  a higher sensitivity to exhibit depressive-like responses in the chronic unpredictable mild stress procedure was observed in cb1 knockout mice  suggesting an increased susceptibility to develop an anhedonic state in these animals. finally  cb1 knockout mice showed a significant increase in the conditioned responses produced in the active avoidance model  suggesting an improvement of learning and memory processes. conclusions: taken together these findings demonstrate that endogenous cannabinoids through the activation of cb1 receptors are implicated in the control of emotional behaviour and participate in the physiological processes of learning and memory.
124,age‐associated microrna expression in human peripheral blood is associated with all‐cause mortality and age‐related traits,recent studies provide evidence of correlations of dna methylation and expression of protein-coding genes with human aging. the relations of microrna expression with age and age-related clinical outcomes have not been characterized thoroughly. we explored associations of age with whole-blood microrna expression in 5221 adults and identified 127 micrornas that were differentially expressed by age at p < 3.3 × 10-4 (bonferroni-corrected). most micrornas were underexpressed in older individuals. integrative analysis of microrna and mrna expression revealed changes in age-associated mrna expression possibly driven by age-associated micrornas in pathways that involve rna processing  translation  and immune function. we fitted a linear model to predict 'microrna age' that incorporated expression levels of 80 micrornas. microrna age correlated modestly with predicted age from dna methylation (r = 0.3) and mrna expression (r = 0.2)  suggesting that microrna age may complement mrna and epigenetic age prediction models. we used the difference between microrna age and chronological age as a biomarker of accelerated aging (δage) and found that δage was associated with all-cause mortality (hazards ratio 1.1 per year difference  p = 4.2 × 10-5 adjusted for sex and chronological age). additionally  δage was associated with coronary heart disease  hypertension  blood pressure  and glucose levels. in conclusion  we constructed a microrna age prediction model based on whole-blood microrna expression profiling. age-associated micrornas and their targets have potential utility to detect accelerated aging and to predict risks for age-related diseases.
126,evolution and impact of subclonal mutations in chronic lymphocytic leukemia,clonal evolution is a key feature of cancer progression and relapse. we studied intratumoral heterogeneity in 149 chronic lymphocytic leukemia (cll) cases by integrating whole-exome sequence and copy number to measure the fraction of cancer cells harboring each somatic mutation. we identified driver mutations as predominantly clonal (e.g.  myd88  trisomy 12  and del(13q)) or subclonal (e.g.  sf3b1 and tp53)  corresponding to earlier and later events in cll evolution. we sampled leukemia cells from 18 patients at two time points. ten of twelve cll cases treated with chemotherapy (but only one of six without treatment) underwent clonal evolution  predominantly involving subclones with driver mutations (e.g.  sf3b1 and tp53) that expanded over time. furthermore  presence of a subclonal driver mutation was an independent risk factor for rapid disease progression. our study thus uncovers patterns of clonal evolution in cll  providing insights into its stepwise transformation  and links the presence of subclones with adverse clinical outcomes.
128,grass plants bind  retain  uptake  and transport infectious prions.,prions are the protein-based infectious agents responsible for prion diseases. environmental prion contamination has been implicated in disease transmission. here  we analyzed the binding and retention of infectious prion protein (prp(sc)) to plants. small quantities of prp(sc) contained in diluted brain homogenate or in excretory materials (urine and feces) can bind to wheat grass roots and leaves. wild-type hamsters were efficiently infected by ingestion of prion-contaminated plants. the prion-plant interaction occurs with prions from diverse origins  including chronic wasting disease. furthermore  leaves contaminated by spraying with a prion-containing preparation retained prp(sc) for several weeks in the living plant. finally  plants can uptake prions from contaminated soil and transport them to aerial parts of the plant (stem and leaves). these findings demonstrate that plants can efficiently bind infectious prions and act as carriers of infectivity  suggesting a possible role of environmental prion contamination in the horizontal transmission of the disease.
130,the behaviour change wheel: a new method for characterising and designing behaviour change interventions,background improving the design and implementation of evidence-based practice depends on successful behaviour change interventions. this requires an appropriate method for characterising interventions and linking them to an analysis of the targeted behaviour. there exists a plethora of frameworks of behaviour change interventions  but it is not clear how well they serve this purpose. this paper evaluates these frameworks  and develops and evaluates a new framework aimed at overcoming their limitations. methods a systematic search of electronic databases and consultation with behaviour change experts were used to identify frameworks of behaviour change interventions. these were evaluated according to three criteria: comprehensiveness  coherence  and a clear link to an overarching model of behaviour. a new framework was developed to meet these criteria. the reliability with which it could be applied was examined in two domains of behaviour change: tobacco control and obesity. results nineteen frameworks were identified covering nine intervention functions and seven policy categories that could enable those interventions. none of the frameworks reviewed covered the full range of intervention functions or policies  and only a minority met the criteria of coherence or linkage to a model of behaviour. at the centre of a proposed new framework is a 'behaviour system' involving three essential conditions: capability  opportunity  and motivation (what we term the 'com-b system'). this forms the hub of a 'behaviour change wheel' (bcw) around which are positioned the nine intervention functions aimed at addressing deficits in one or more of these conditions; around this are placed seven categories of policy that could enable those interventions to occur. the bcw was used reliably to characterise interventions within the english department of health's 2010 tobacco control strategy and the national institute of health and clinical excellence's guidance on reducing obesity. conclusions interventions and policies to change behaviour can be usefully characterised by means of a bcw comprising: a 'behaviour system' at the hub  encircled by intervention functions and then by policy categories. research is needed to establish how far the bcw can lead to more efficient design of effective interventions.
132,rna is favourable for analysing egfr mutations in malignant pleural effusion of lung cancer.,malignant pleural effusion (mpe) is a useful specimen allowing for the evaluation of egfr status in nonsmall cell lung cancer (nsclc). however  direct sequencing of genomic dna from mpe samples was found not to be sensitive for egfr mutation detection. to test whether egfr analysis from rna is less prone to interference from nontumour cells that have no or lower egfr expression  we compared three methods (sequencing from cell-derived rna versus sequencing and mass-spectrometric analysis from genomic dna)  in parallel  for egfr mutation detection from mpe samples in 150 lung adenocarcinoma patients receiving first-line tyrosine kinase inhibitors (tkis). among these mpe samples  egfr mutations were much more frequently identified by sequencing using rna than by sequencing and mass-spectrometric analysis from genomic dna (for all mutations  67.3 versus 44.7 and 46.7%; for l858r or exon 19 deletions  61.3 versus 41.3 and 46.7%  respectively). the better mutation detection yield of sequencing from rna was coupled with the superior prediction of clinical efficacy of first-line tkis. in patients with acquired resistance  egfr sequencing from rna provided satisfactory detection of t790m (54.2%). these results demonstrated that egfr sequencing using rna as template greatly improves sensitivity for egfr mutation detection from samples of mpe  highlighting rna as the favourable source for analysing egfr mutations from heterogeneous mpe specimens in nsclc.
134,visualization of volatile substances in different organelles with an atmospheric-pressure mass microscope.,we have developed a mass microscope (mass spectrometry imager with spatial resolution higher than the naked eye) equipped with an atmospheric pressure ion-source chamber for laser desorption/ionization (ap-ldi) and a quadrupole ion trap time-of-flight (qit-tof) analyzer. the optical microscope combined with the mass spectrometer permitted us to precisely determine the relevant tissue region prior to performing imaging mass spectrometry (ims). an ultraviolet laser tightly focused with a triplet lens was used to achieve high spatial resolution. an atmospheric pressure ion-source chamber enables us to analyze fresh samples with minimal loss of intrinsic water or volatile compounds. mass-microscopic ap-ldi imaging of freshly cut ginger rhizome sections revealed that 6-gingerol ([m + k](+)at m/z 333.15  positive mode; [m - h](-) at m/z 293.17  negative mode) and the monoterpene ([m + k](+) at m/z 191.09)  which are the compounds related to pungency and flavor  respectively  were localized in oil drop-containing organelles. ap-ldi-tandem ms/ms analyses were applied to compare authentic signals from freshly cut ginger directly with the standard reagent. thus  our atmosphere-imaging mass spectrometer enabled us to monitor a quality of plants at the organelle level.
136,green synthesis of silver nanoparticles and characterization of their inhibitory effects on ages formation using biophysical techniques,advanced glycation end-products (ages) resulting from non-enzymatic glycation are one of the major factors implicated in secondary complications of diabetes. scientists are focusing on discovering new compounds that may be used as potential ages inhibitors without affecting the normal structure and function of biomolecules. a number of natural and synthetic compounds have been proposed as age inhibitors. in this study  we investigated the inhibitory effects of agnps (silver nanoparticles) in ages formation. agnps (~30.5 nm) synthesized from aloe vera leaf extract were characterized using uv-vis spectroscopy  energy-dispersive x-ray spectroscopy (edx)  high resolution-transmission electron microscopy  x-ray diffraction and dynamic light scattering (dls) techniques. the inhibitory effects of agnps on ages formation were evaluated by investigating the degree of reactivity of free amino groups (lysine and arginine residues)  protein-bound carbonyl and carboxymethyl lysine (cml) content  and the effects on protein structure using various physicochemical techniques. the results showed that agnps significantly inhibit ages formation in a concentration dependent manner and that agnps have a positive effect on protein structure. these findings strongly suggest that agnps may play a therapeutic role in diabetes-related complications.
138,stages of the pathologic process in alzheimer disease: age categories from 1 to 100 years.,two thousand three hundred and thirty two nonselected brains from 1- to 100-year-old individuals were examined using immunocytochemistry (at8) and gallyas silver staining for abnormal tau; immunocytochemistry (4g8) and campbell-switzer staining were used for the detection ofβ-amyloid. a total of 342 cases was negative in the gallyas stain but when restaged for at8 only 10 were immunonegative. fifty-eight cases had subcortical tau predominantly in the locus coeruleus  but there was no abnormal cortical tau (subcortical stages a-c). cortical involvement (abnormal tau in neurites) was identified first in the transentorhinal region (stage 1a  38 cases). transentorhinal pyramidal cells displayed pretangle material (stage 1b  236 cases). pretangles gradually became argyrophilic neurofibrillary tangles (nfts) that progressed in parallel with nft stages i to vi. pretangles restricted to subcortical sites were seen chiefly at younger ages. of the total cases  1 031 (44.2%) had β-amyloid plaques. the first plaques occurred in the neocortex after the onset of tauopathy in the brainstem. plaques generally developed in the 40s in 4% of all cases  culminating in their tenth decade (75%). β-amyloid plaques and nfts were significantly correlated (p < 0.0001). these data suggest that tauopathy associated with sporadic alzheimer disease may begin earlier than previously thought and possibly in the lower brainstem rather than in the transentorhinal region.
140,a novel atac-seq approach reveals lineage-specific reinforcement of the open chromatin landscape via cooperation between baf and p63,background open chromatin regions are correlated with active regulatory elements in development and are dysregulated in diseases. the baf (swi/snf) complex is essential for development  and has been demonstrated to remodel reconstituted chromatin in vitro and to control the accessibility of a few individual regions in vivo. however  it remains unclear where and how baf controls the open chromatin landscape to regulate developmental processes  such as human epidermal differentiation. results using a novel "on-plate" atac-sequencing approach for profiling open chromatin landscapes with a low number of adherent cells  we demonstrate that the baf complex is essential for maintaining 11.6 % of open chromatin regions in epidermal differentiation. these baf-dependent open chromatin regions are highly cell-type-specific and are strongly enriched for binding sites for p63  a master epidermal transcription factor. the dna sequences of p63 binding sites intrinsically favor nucleosome formation and are inaccessible in other cell types without p63 to prevent ectopic activation. in epidermal cells  baf and p63 mutually recruit each other to maintain 14 853 open chromatin regions. we further demonstrate that baf and p63 cooperatively position nucleosomes away from p63 binding sites and recruit transcriptional machinery to control tissue differentiation. conclusions baf displays high specificity in controlling the open chromatin landscape during epidermal differentiation by cooperating with the master transcription factor p63 to maintain lineage-specific open chromatin regions.
142,a comparison of cancer screening practices in cancer survivors and in the general population: the korean national health and nutrition examination survey (knhanes) 2001–2007,this study aimed to describe cancer screening rates for second primary cancer among cancer survivors in korea  and to compare these rates with those of two control groups: individuals without a history of cancer but with other chronic diseases  and individuals without a history of cancer and without other chronic diseases. the study is a cross-sectional analysis of 15 556 adults ≥30 years old who participated in the 2001  2005  and 2007 korean national health and nutrition examination surveys (knhanes). the prevalence of breast  cervical  gastric  and colorectal cancer screening examinations according to national guidelines was assessed and compared to two control groups. screening rates among cancer survivors were 48.5  54.7  34.7  and 28.6% for breast  cervical  gastric  and colorectal cancer screening  respectively. cancer survivors showed higher screening rates for all four cancer sites compared with both control groups  but breast cancer screening was only statistically significant after adjusting gender  age  marital status  education  income  working status  health insurance  smoking and drinking status  and self-reported health status. cancer survivors were more likely than individuals without a cancer history to obtain screening examinations according to recommended guidelines. still  screening rates even among survivors were suboptimal  emphasizing the need for a more systematic approach to second primary cancer screening and prevention.
144,the bayh–dole act and university research and development,this paper examines the relationship between university research and development (r&d) activities and the bayh-dole act. this act made it much easier for universities to obtain patents from research funded by the federal government and may have provided universities with an incentive to alter their r&d activities. the act may provide an incentive to reduce basic research (which does not generate licensing fees) and increase applied research (which does generate patents and licensing fees). in addition  industry might be more willing to fund university r&d projects since the results would now be easier to patent. this paper differs from the existing literature which uses patent data (a measure of research output) by using research and development data (a measure of inventive input) to examine the effect of the act.
146,a mitochondrially targeted compound delays aging in yeast through a mechanism linking mitochondrial membrane lipid metabolism to mitochondrial redox biology☆,a recent study revealed a mechanism of delaying aging in yeast by a natural compound which specifically impacts mitochondrial redox processes. in this mechanism  exogenously added lithocholic bile acid enters yeast cells  accumulates mainly in the inner mitochondrial membrane  and elicits an age-related remodeling of phospholipid synthesis and movement within both mitochondrial membranes. such remodeling of mitochondrial phospholipid dynamics progresses with the chronological age of a yeast cell and ultimately causes significant changes in mitochondrial membrane lipidome. these changes in the composition of membrane phospholipids alter mitochondrial abundance and morphology  thereby triggering changes in the age-related chronology of such longevity-defining redox processes as mitochondrial respiration  the maintenance of mitochondrial membrane potential  the preservation of cellular homeostasis of mitochondrially produced reactive oxygen species  and the coupling of electron transport to atp synthesis.
148,role of the single-stranded dna–binding protein ssbb in pneumococcal transformation: maintenance of a reservoir for genetic plasticity,bacteria encode a single-stranded dna (ssdna) binding protein (ssb) crucial for genome maintenance. in bacillus subtilis and streptococcus pneumoniae  an alternative ssb  ssbb  is expressed uniquely during competence for genetic transformation  but its precise role has been disappointingly obscure. here  we report our investigations involving comparison of a null mutant (ssbb(-)) and a c-ter truncation (ssbbδ7) of ssbb of s. pneumoniae  the latter constructed because ssbs' acidic tail has emerged as a key site for interactions with partner proteins. we provide evidence that ssbb directly protects internalized ssdna. we show that ssbb is highly abundant  potentially allowing the binding of ~1.15 mb ssdna (half a genome equivalent); that it participates in the processing of ssdna into recombinants; and that  at high dna concentration  it is of crucial importance for chromosomal transformation whilst antagonizing plasmid transformation. while the latter observation explains a long-standing observation that plasmid transformation is very inefficient in s. pneumoniae (compared to chromosomal transformation)  the former supports our previous suggestion that ssbb creates a reservoir of ssdna  allowing successive recombination cycles. ssbbδ7 fulfils the reservoir function  suggesting that ssbb c-ter is not necessary for processing protein(s) to access stored ssdna. we propose that the evolutionary raison d'être of ssbb and its abundance is maintenance of this reservoir  which contributes to the genetic plasticity of s. pneumoniae by increasing the likelihood of multiple transformation events in the same cell.
150,localization of a gene for partial epilepsy to chromosome 10q,there is strong evidence for a genetic contribution to epilepsy  but it is commonly assumed that this genetic contribution is limited to ‘generalized’ epilepsies  and that most forms of ‘partial’ epilepsy are nongenetic. in a linkage analysis of a single family containing 11 affected individuals  we obtained strong evidence for localization of a gene for partial epilepsy. this susceptibility gene maps to chromosome 10q  with a maximum two–point lod score for d10s192 of 3.99 at θ=0.0. all affected individuals share a single haplotype for seven tightly linked contiguous markers; the maximum lod score for this haplotype is 4.83 at θ=0.0. key recombinants place the susceptibility locus within a 10 centimorgan interval.
152,a cohort study of the risk of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2 or 3 in relation to papillomavirus infection.,background human papillomavirus (hpv) has been associated with cervical intraepithelial neoplasia  but the temporal relation between the infection and the neoplasia remains unclear  as does the relative importance of the specific type of hpv  other sexually transmitted diseases  and other risk factors. methods we studied prospectively a cohort of 241 women who presented for evaluation of sexually transmitted disease and had negative cervical cytologic tests. the women were followed every four months with cytologic and colposcopic examinations of the uterine cervix and tests for hpv dna and other sexually transmitted diseases. results cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2 or 3 was confirmed by biopsy in 28 women. on the basis of survival analysis  the cumulative incidence of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia at two years was 28 percent among women with a positive test for hpv and 3 percent among those without detectable hpv dna: the risk was highest among those with hpv type 16 or 18 infection (adjusted relative risk as compared with that in women without hpv infection  11; 95 percent confidence interval  4.6 to 26; attributable risk  52 percent). all 24 cases of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2 or 3 among hpv-positive women were detected within 24 months after the first positive test for hpv. after adjustment for the presence of hpv infection  the development of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia was also associated with younger age at first intercourse  the presence of serum antibodies to chlamydia trachomatis  the presence of serum antibodies to cytomegalovirus  and cervical infection with neisseria gonorrhoeae. conclusions cervical intraepithelial neoplasia is a common and apparently early manifestation of cervical infection by hpv  particularly types 16 and 18.
154,compound heterozygous zmpste24 mutations reduce prelamin a processing and result in a severe progeroid phenotype.,hutchinson–gilford progeria syndrome (hgps; omim 176670) is an extremely rare but devastating disorder that mimics premature aging.1–3 affected children appear normal at birth but typically develop failure to thrive in the first two years. other features include alopecia  micrognathia  loss of subcutaneous fat with prominent veins  abnormal dentition  sclerodermatous skin changes  and osteolysis of the clavicles and distal phalanges. the mean age of death is at age 13 years  most commonly due to atherosclerosis. hgps is mainly sporadic in occurrence  but a genetic cause has now been implicated following the identification of de novo heterozygous mutations in the lmna gene in the majority of hgps patients.4 5 a single family showing autosomal recessive inheritance of homozygous lmna mutations has also been reported.6  lmna encodes lamins a and c  components of the nuclear lamina  a meshwork underlying the nuclear envelope that serves as a structural support and is also thought to contribute to chromatin organisation and the regulation of gene expression.7 8 interestingly  mutations in lmna have recently been associated with at least eight inherited disorders  known as laminopathies  with differential dystrophic effects on a variety of tissues including muscle  neurones  skin  bone  and adipose tissue (reviewed in mounkes et al 9). however  the realisation that these disorders share common genetic defects has led to clinical re-evaluation  with emerging evidence of significant phenotypic overlap.10 hence the laminopathies might reasonably be considered as a spectrum of related diseases. hgps has phenotypic similarities to several other laminopathies  in particular the atypical werner’s syndrome11 and mandibuloacral dysplasia (mad; omim 248370 and 608612).12 these diseases are associated with lipodystrophy 3 13 which is the most prominent feature of another laminopathy  familial partial lipodystrophy of the dunnigan variety (omim 151660).14 mad has been further classified as two …
156,impact of low alcohol verbal descriptors on perceived strength: an experimental study,objectives low alcohol labels are a set of labels that carry descriptors such as 'low' or 'lighter' to denote alcohol content in beverages. there is growing interest from policymakers and producers in lower strength alcohol products. however  there is a lack of evidence on how the general population perceives verbal descriptors of strength. the present research examines consumers' perceptions of strength (% abv) and appeal of alcohol products using low or high alcohol verbal descriptors. design a within-subjects experimental study in which participants rated the strength and appeal of 18 terms denoting low (nine terms)  high (eight terms) and regular (one term) strengths for either (1) wine or (2) beer according to drinking preference. methods thousand six hundred adults (796 wine and 804 beer drinkers) sampled from a nationally representative uk panel. results low  lower  light  lighter  and reduced formed a cluster and were rated as denoting lower strength products than regular  but higher strength than the cluster with intensifiers consisting of extra low  super low  extra light  and super light. similar clustering in perceived strength was observed amongst the high verbal descriptors. regular was the most appealing strength descriptor  with the low and high verbal descriptors using intensifiers rated least appealing. conclusions the perceived strength and appeal of alcohol products diminished the more the verbal descriptors implied a deviation from regular. the implications of these findings are discussed in terms of policy implications for lower strength alcohol labelling and associated public health outcomes. statement of contribution what is already known about this subject? current uk and eu legislation limits the number of low strength verbal descriptors and the associated alcohol by volume (abv) to 1.2% abv and lower. there is growing interest from policymakers and producers to extend the range of lower strength alcohol products above the current cap of 1.2% abv set out in national legislation. there is a lack of evidence on how the general population perceives verbal descriptors of alcohol product strength (both low and high). what does this study add? verbal descriptors of lower strength wine and beer form two clusters and effectively communicate reduced alcohol content. low  lower  light  lighter  and reduced were considered lower in strength than regular (average % abv). descriptors using intensifiers (extra low  super low  extra light  and super light) were considered lowest in strength. similar clustering in perceived strength was observed amongst the high verbal descriptors. the appeal of alcohol products reduced the more the verbal descriptors implied a deviation from regular.
158,autosomal dominant immune dysregulation syndrome in humans with ctla4 mutations,the protein cytotoxic t lymphocyte antigen-4 (ctla-4) is an essential negative regulator of immune responses  and its loss causes fatal autoimmunity in mice. we studied a large family in which five individuals presented with a complex  autosomal dominant immune dysregulation syndrome characterized by hypogammaglobulinemia  recurrent infections and multiple autoimmune clinical features. we identified a heterozygous nonsense mutation in exon 1 of ctla4. screening of 71 unrelated patients with comparable clinical phenotypes identified five additional families (nine individuals) with previously undescribed splice site and missense mutations in ctla4. clinical penetrance was incomplete (eight adults of a total of 19 genetically proven ctla4 mutation carriers were considered unaffected). however  ctla-4 protein expression was decreased in regulatory t cells (treg cells) in both patients and carriers with ctla4 mutations. whereas treg cells were generally present at elevated numbers in these individuals  their suppressive function  ctla-4 ligand binding and transendocytosis of cd80 were impaired. mutations in ctla4 were also associated with decreased circulating b cell numbers. taken together  mutations in ctla4 resulting in ctla-4 haploinsufficiency or impaired ligand binding result in disrupted t and b cell homeostasis and a complex immune dysregulation syndrome.
160,neutrophils support lung colonization of metastasis-initiating breast cancer cells,despite progress in the development of drugs that efficiently target cancer cells  treatments for metastatic tumours are often ineffective. the now well-established dependency of cancer cells on their microenvironment suggests that targeting the non-cancer-cell component of the tumour might form a basis for the development of novel therapeutic approaches. however  the as-yet poorly characterized contribution of host responses during tumour growth and metastatic progression represents a limitation to exploiting this approach. here we identify neutrophils as the main component and driver of metastatic establishment within the (pre-)metastatic lung microenvironment in mouse breast cancer models. neutrophils have a fundamental role in inflammatory responses and their contribution to tumorigenesis is still controversial. using various strategies to block neutrophil recruitment to the pre-metastatic site  we demonstrate that neutrophils specifically support metastatic initiation. importantly  we find that neutrophil-derived leukotrienes aid the colonization of distant tissues by selectively expanding the sub-pool of cancer cells that retain high tumorigenic potential. genetic or pharmacological inhibition of the leukotriene-generating enzyme arachidonate 5-lipoxygenase (alox5) abrogates neutrophil pro-metastatic activity and consequently reduces metastasis. our results reveal the efficacy of using targeted therapy against a specific tumour microenvironment component and indicate that neutrophil alox5 inhibition may limit metastatic progression.
162,il-1β  il-4 and il-12 control the fate of group 2 innate lymphoid cells in human airway inflammation in the lungs,group 2 innate lymphoid cells (ilc2s) secrete type 2 cytokines  which protect against parasites but can also contribute to a variety of inflammatory airway diseases. we report here that interleukin 1β (il-1β) directly activated human ilc2s and that il-12 induced the conversion of these activated ilc2s into interferon-γ (ifn-γ)-producing ilc1s  which was reversed by il-4. the plasticity of ilcs was manifested in diseased tissues of patients with severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd) or chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (crswnp)  which displayed il-12 or il-4 signatures and the accumulation of ilc1s or ilc2s  respectively. eosinophils were a major cellular source of il-4  which revealed cross-talk between il-5-producing ilc2s and il-4-producing eosinophils. we propose that il-12 and il-4 govern ilc2 functional identity and that their imbalance results in the perpetuation of type 1 or type 2 inflammation.
164,naringenin inhibits allergen-induced airway inflammation and airway responsiveness and inhibits nf-kappab activity in a murine model of asthma.,naringenin  a flavonoid  has antiinflammatory and immunomodulatory properties. we investigated whether naringenin could attenuate allergen-induced airway inflammation and its possible mechanism in a murine model of asthma. mice were sensitized and challenged with ovalbumin. some mice were administered with naringenin before ovalbumin challenge. we evaluated the development of airway inflammation and airway reactivity. interleukin (il)4  il13  chemokine (c-c motif) ligand (ccl)5  and ccl11 in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and serum total ige were detected by elisa. ikappabalpha degradation and inducible nitric oxide synthase (inos) in lungs were measured by western blot. we also tested nf-kappab binding activity by electrophoretic mobility shift assay. the mrna levels of inos  ccl5  and ccl11 were detected by real-time pcr. naringenin attenuated ovalbumin-induced airway inflammation and airway reactivity in experimental mice. the naringenin-treated mice had lower levels of il4 and il13 in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and lower serum total ige. furthermore  naringenin inhibited pulmonary ikappabalpha degradation and nf-kappab dna-binding activity. the levels of ccl5  ccl11  and inos were also significantly reduced. the results indicated that naringenin may play protective roles in the asthma process. the inhibition of nf-kappab and the decreased expression of its target genes may account for this phenomenon.
166,emergent structures and dynamics of cell colonies by contact inhibition of locomotion,cells in tissues can organize into a broad spectrum of structures according to their function. drastic changes of organization  such as epithelial-mesenchymal transitions or the formation of spheroidal aggregates  are often associated either to tissue morphogenesis or to cancer progression. here  we study the organization of cell colonies by means of simulations of self-propelled particles with generic cell-like interactions. the interplay between cell softness  cell-cell adhesion  and contact inhibition of locomotion (cil) yields structures and collective dynamics observed in several existing tissue phenotypes. these include regular distributions of cells  dynamic cell clusters  gel-like networks  collectively migrating monolayers  and 3d aggregates. we give analytical predictions for transitions between noncohesive  cohesive  and 3d cell arrangements. we explicitly show how cil yields an effective repulsion that promotes cell dispersal  thereby hindering the formation of cohesive tissues. yet  in continuous monolayers  cil leads to collective cell motion  ensures tensile intercellular stresses  and opposes cell extrusion. thus  our work highlights the prominent role of cil in determining the emergent structures and dynamics of cell colonies.
168,cell death: the significance of apoptosis.,publisher summary the classification of cell death can be based on morphological or biochemical criteria or on the circumstances of its occurrence. currently  irreversible structural alteration provides the only unequivocal evidence of death; biochemical indicators of cell death that are universally applicable have to be precisely defined and studies of cell function or of reproductive capacity do not necessarily differentiate between death and dormant states from which recovery may be possible. it has also proved feasible to categorize most if not all dying cells into one or the other of two discrete and distinctive patterns of morphological change  which have  generally  been found to occur under disparate but individually characteristic circumstances. one of these patterns is the swelling proceeding to rupture of plasma and organelle membranes and dissolution of organized structure—termed “coagulative necrosis. ” it results from injury by agents  such as toxins and ischemia  affects cells in groups rather than singly  and evokes exudative inflammation when it develops in vivo. the other morphological pattern is characterized by condensation of the cell with maintenance of organelle integrity and the formation of surface protuberances that separate as membrane-bounded globules; in tissues  these are phagocytosed and digested by resident cells  there being no associated inflammation.
170,identification and purification of a 62 000-dalton protein that binds specifically to the polypyrimidine tract of introns.,a protein of molecular size 62 000 daltons (p62) was detected in hela cell nuclear extracts by uv cross-linking to mrna precursors. p62 binds specifically to the polypyrimidine tract of the 3' splice site region of introns. p62 purified to homogeneity binds the polypyrimidine tract of pre-mrnas. this binding does not require the ag dinucleotide at the 3' splice site. alterations in the polypyrimidine tract that reduce the binding of p62 yield a corresponding reduction in the efficiency of formation of a u2 snrnp/pre-mrna complex and splicing. the p62 protein is retained in the spliceosome  where it remains bound to the pre-mrna. this polypyrimidine tract binding protein (pptb) is proposed to be a critical component in recognition of the 3' splice site during splicing.
172,electroporation of cas9 protein/sgrna into early pronuclear zygotes generates non-mosaic mutants in the mouse.,the crispr/cas9 system is a powerful tool for elucidating the roles of genes in a wide variety of organisms including mice. to obtain genetically modified embryos or mice by this method  cas9 mrna and sgrna are usually introduced into zygotes by microinjection or electroporation. however  most mutants generated with this method are genetically mosaic  composed of several types of cells carrying different mutations  which complicates phenotype analysis in founder embryos or mice. to simplify the analysis and to elucidate the roles of genes involved in developmental processes  a method for producing non-mosaic mutants is needed. here  we established a method for generating non-mosaic mouse mutant embryos. we introduced cas9 protein and sgrna into in vitro fertilized (ivf) zygotes by electroporation  which enabled the genome editing to occur before the first replication of the mouse genome. as a result  all of the cells in the mutant carried the same set of mutations. this method solves the problem of mosaicism/allele complexity in founder mutant embryos or mice generated by the cripsr/cas9 system.
174,cancer associated fibroblasts (cafs) in tumor microenvironment.,cancer associated fibroblasts (cafs) is one of the most crucial components of the tumor microenvironment which promotes the growth and invasion of cancer cells by various mechanisms. cafs demonstrate a high degree of heterogeneity due to their various origins; however  many distinct morphological features and physiological functions of cafs have been identified. it is becoming clear that the crosstalk between the cancer cells and the cafs plays a key role in the progression of cancer  and understanding this mutual relationship would eventually enable us to treat cancer patients by targeting cafs. in this review  we will discuss the latest findings on the role of cafs in tumorigenesis and metastasis as well as potential therapeutic implication of cafs.
176,mild overexpression of mecp2 causes a progressive neurological disorder in mice.,mutations in the x-linked methyl-cpg-binding protein 2 (mecp2)  encoding a transcriptional repressor  cause rett syndrome and a variety of related neurodevelopmental disorders. the vast majority of mutations associated with human disease are loss-of-function mutations  but precisely what aspect of mecp2 function is responsible for these phenotypes remains unknown. we overexpressed wild-type human protein in transgenic mice using a large genomic clone containing the entire human mecp2 locus. detailed neurobehavioral and electrophysiological studies in transgenic line mecp2(tg1)  which expresses mecp2 at approximately 2-fold wild-type levels  demonstrated onset of phenotypes around 10 weeks of age. surprisingly  these mice displayed enhanced motor and contextual learning and enhanced synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus. after 20 weeks of age  however  these mice developed seizures  became hypoactive and approximately 30% of them died by 1 year of age. these data demonstrate that mecp2 levels must be tightly regulated in vivo  and that even mild overexpression of this protein is detrimental. furthermore  these results support the possibility that duplications or gain-of-function mutations in mecp2 might underlie some cases of x-linked delayed-onset neurobehavioral disorders.
178,mir-375 inhibits autophagy and reduces viability of hepatocellular carcinoma cells under hypoxic conditions.,background & aims tumor cells survive hypoxic conditions by inducing autophagy. we investigated the roles of micrornas (mirnas) in regulating autophagy of hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) cells under hypoxic conditions. methods we used gain- and loss-of-function methods to evaluate the effect of mirnas on autophagy in human hcc cell lines (huh7 and hep3b) under hypoxic conditions. autophagy was quantified by immunoblot  immunofluoresence  and transmission electron microscopy analyses  and after incubation of cells with bafilomycin a1. we used a luciferase reporter assay to confirm associations between mirnas and their targets. we analyzed growth of hcc xenograft tumors in nude mice. results mir-375 was down-regulated in hcc cells and tissues; it inhibited autophagy under hypoxic conditions by suppressing the conversion of lc3i to lc3ii and thereby autophagic flux. the ability of mir-375 to inhibit autophagy was independent of its ability to regulate 3'-phosphoinositide-dependent protein kinase-1-akt-mammalian target of rapamycin signaling  but instead involved suppression of atg7  an autophagy-associated gene. mir-375 bound directly to a predicted site in the 3' untranslated region of atg7. up-regulating mir-375 or down-regulating atg7 inhibited mitochondrial autophagy of hcc cells  reduced the elimination of damaged mitochondria under hypoxia  increased release of mitochondrial apoptotic proteins  and reduced viability of hcc cells. in mice  xenograft tumors that expressed mir-375 had fewer autophagic cells  larger areas of necrosis  and grew more slowly than tumors from hcc cells that expressed lower levels of mir-375. conclusions mir-375 inhibits autophagy by reducing expression of atg7 and impairs viability of hcc cells under hypoxic conditions in culture and in mice. mirnas that inhibit autophagy of cancer cells might be developed as therapeutics.
180,the descent of memory t-cell subsets,the immune system has evolved by continuously increasing its complexity to provide the host with an advantage over infectious agents. the development of immunological memory engenders long-lasting protection and lengthens the lifespan of the host. the generation of subsets of memory t cells with distinct homing and functional properties increases our defensive capabilities. however  the developmental relationship of memory t-cell subsets is a matter of debate. in this opinion article  in light of recent developments  we suggest that it is probable that two distinct lineages comprise the memory cd8+ t-cell population generated in response to infection.
182,tcr ligand density and affinity determine peripheral induction of foxp3 in vivo,t cell receptor (tcr) ligation is required for the extrathymic differentiation of forkhead box p3(+) (foxp3(+)) regulatory t cells. several lines of evidence indicate that weak tcr stimulation favors induction of foxp3 in the periphery; however  it remains to be determined how tcr ligand potency influences this process. we characterized the density and affinity of tcr ligand favorable for foxp3 induction and found that a low dose of a strong agonist resulted in maximal induction of foxp3 in vivo. initial foxp3 induction by weak agonist peptide could be enhanced by disruption of tcr-peptide major histocompatibility complex (pmhc) interactions or alteration of peptide dose. however  time course experiments revealed that foxp3-positive cells induced by weak agonist stimulation are deleted  along with their foxp3-negative counterparts  whereas foxp3-positive cells induced by low doses of the strong agonist persist. our results suggest that  together  pmhc ligand potency  density  and duration of tcr interactions define a cumulative quantity of tcr stimulation that determines initial peripheral foxp3 induction. however  in the persistence of induced foxp3(+) t cells  tcr ligand potency and density are noninterchangeable factors that influence the route to peripheral tolerance.
184,potent rnai by short rna triggers.,rna interference (rnai) is a gene-silencing mechanism by which a ribonucleoprotein complex  the rna-induced silencing complex (risc) and a double-stranded (ds) short-interfering rna (sirna)  targets a complementary mrna for site-specific cleavage and subsequent degradation. while longer dsrna are endogenously processed into 21- to 24-nucleotide (nt) sirnas or mirnas to induce gene silencing  rnai studies in human cells typically use synthetic 19- to 20-nt sirna duplexes with 2-nt overhangs at the 3'-end of both strands. here  we report that systematic synthesis and analysis of sirnas with deletions at the passenger and/or guide strand revealed a short rnai trigger  16-nt sirna  which induces potent rnai in human cells. our results indicate that the minimal requirement for dsrna to trigger rnai is an approximately 42 a a-form helix with approximately 1.5 helical turns. the 16-nt sirna more effectively knocked down mrna and protein levels than 19-nt sirna when targeting the endogenous cdk9 gene  suggesting that 16-nt sirna is a more potent rnai trigger. in vitro kinetic analysis of rna-induced silencing complex (risc) programmed in hela cells indicates that 16-nt sirna has a higher risc-loading capacity than 19-nt sirna. these results suggest that risc assembly and activation during rnai does not necessarily require a 19-nt duplex sirna and that 16-nt duplexes can be designed as more potent triggers to induce rnai.
186,scaling of dorsal-ventral patterning by embryo size-dependent degradation of spemann’s organizer signals,spemann's organizer plays a key role in dorsal-ventral (dv) patterning in the amphibian embryo by secreting diffusible proteins such as chordin  an antagonist to ventralizing bone morphogenetic proteins (bmps). the dv patterning is so robust that an amphibian embryo with its ventral half surgically removed can develop into a smaller but proportionally patterned larva. here  we show that this robust patterning depends on facilitated chordin degradation and requires the expression of the chordin-proteinase inhibitor sizzled on the opposite side. sizzled  which is stable and diffuses widely along the dv axis  stabilizes chordin and expands its distribution in the ventral direction. this expanded chordin distribution  in turn  limits bmp-dependent sizzled production  forming an axis-wide feedback loop for shaping chordin's activity. using bisection assays  we demonstrate that chordin degradation is dynamically controlled by embryo-size-coupled sizzled accumulation. we propose a scaling model that enables the dv pattern to adjust proportionally to embryonic axis size.
188,activation of proteinase-activated receptor 2 in human osteoarthritic cartilage upregulates catabolic and proinflammatory pathways capable of inducing cartilage degradation: a basic science study,proteinase-activated receptors (pars) belong to a family of g protein-coupled receptors. pars are activated by a serine-dependent cleavage generating a tethered activating ligand. par-2 was shown to be involved in inflammatory pathways. we investigated the in situ levels and modulation of par-2 in human normal and osteoarthritis (oa) cartilage/chondrocytes. furthermore  we evaluated the role of par-2 on the synthesis of the major catabolic factors in oa cartilage  including metalloproteinase (mmp)-1 and mmp-13 and the inflammatory mediator cyclooxygenase 2 (cox-2)  as well as the par-2-activated signalling pathways in oa chondrocytes. par-2 expression was determined using real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and protein levels by immunohistochemistry in normal and oa cartilage. protein modulation was investigated in oa cartilage explants treated with a specific par-2-activating peptide (par-2-ap)  sligkv-nh2 (1 to 400 μm)  interleukin 1 beta (il-1β) (100 pg/ml)  tumor necrosis factor-alpha (tnf-α) (5 ng/ml)  transforming growth factor-beta-1 (tgf-β1) (10 ng/ml)  or the signalling pathway inhibitors of p38 (sb202190)  mek1/2 (mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase) (pd98059)  and nuclear factor-kappa b (nf-κb) (sn50)  and par-2 levels were determined by immunohistochemistry. signalling pathways were analyzed on oa chondrocytes by western blot using specific phospho-antibodies against extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (erk1/2)  p38  jnk (c-jun n-terminal kinase)  and nf-κb in the presence or absence of the par-2-ap and/or il-1β. par-2-induced mmp and cox-2 levels in cartilage were determined by immunohistochemistry. par-2 is produced by human chondrocytes and is significantly upregulated in oa compared with normal chondrocytes (p < 0.04 and p < 0.03  respectively). the receptor levels were significantly upregulated by il-1β (p < 0.006) and tnf-α (p < 0.002) as well as by the par-2-ap at 10  100  and 400 μm (p < 0.02) and were downregulated by the inhibition of p38. after 48 hours of incubation  par-2 activation significantly induced mmp-1 and cox-2 starting at 10 μm (both p < 0.005) and mmp-13 at 100 μm (p < 0.02) as well as the phosphorylation of erk1/2 and p38 within 5 minutes of incubation (p < 0.03). though not statistically significant  il-1β produced an additional effect on the activation of erk1/2 and p38. this study documents  for the first time  functional consequences of par-2 activation in human oa cartilage  identifies p38 as the major signalling pathway regulating its synthesis  and demonstrates that specific par-2 activation induces erk1/2 and p38 in oa chondrocytes. these results suggest par-2 as a potential new therapeutic target for the treatment of oa.
190,microenvironment rigidity modulates responses to the her2 receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor lapatinib via yap and taz transcription factors.,stiffness is a biophysical property of the extracellular matrix that modulates cellular functions  including proliferation  invasion  and differentiation  and it also may affect therapeutic responses. therapeutic durability in cancer treatments remains a problem for both chemotherapies and pathway-targeted drugs  but the reasons for this are not well understood. tumor progression is accompanied by changes in the biophysical properties of the tissue  and we asked whether matrix rigidity modulated the sensitive versus resistant states in her2-amplified breast cancer cell responses to the her2-targeted kinase inhibitor lapatinib. the antiproliferative effect of lapatinib was inversely proportional to the elastic modulus of the adhesive substrata. down-regulation of the mechanosensitive transcription coactivators yap and taz  either by sirna or with the small-molecule yap/tead inhibitor verteporfin  eliminated modulus-dependent lapatinib resistance. reduction of yap in vivo in mice also slowed the growth of implanted her2-amplified tumors  showing a trend of increasing sensitivity to lapatinib as yap decreased. thus we address the role of stiffness in resistance to and efficacy of a her2 pathway-targeted therapeutic via the mechanotransduction arm of the hippo pathway.
192,is emotional dysregulation part of the psychopathology of adhd in adults?,attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder is a common condition in adulthood. the disorder is characterized by symptoms of inattention  hyperactivity  and impulsivity. alongside these symptoms  it is discussed whether symptoms of emotional dysregulation could add additional and better description of the psychopathology of adhd. neither the current icd-10 and dsm-iv nor the upcoming dsm-5 includes symptoms of emotional dysregulation as a core aspect of adhd. several authors (e.g.  wender 1995) describe adult adhd in a more differentiated way and propose concepts of the disorder that consider the subjective experiences of the adult patient by introducing the symptomatology of emotional symptoms. empirical studies attest this dimension sufficient reliability and validity. symptoms of emotional dysregulation are definable and seem to be distinct factors of the psychopathology of adult adhd. pharmacological and psychotherapeutic interventions help to alleviate this type of symptoms. this review attests a decisive role to the emotional symptoms in the adhd symptomatology  which should be taken in serious consideration by future research.
194,lymph node t cell responses predict the efficacy of live attenuated siv vaccines,live attenuated simian immunodeficiency virus (siv) vaccines (lavs) remain the most efficacious of all vaccines in nonhuman primate models of hiv and aids  yet the basis of their robust protection remains poorly understood. here we show that the degree of lav-mediated protection against intravenous wild-type sivmac239 challenge strongly correlates with the magnitude and function of siv-specific  effector-differentiated t cells in the lymph node but not with the responses of such t cells in the blood or with other cellular  humoral and innate immune parameters. we found that maintenance of protective t cell responses is associated with persistent lav replication in the lymph node  which occurs almost exclusively in follicular helper t cells. thus  effective lavs maintain lymphoid tissue-based  effector-differentiated  siv-specific t cells that intercept and suppress early wild-type siv amplification and  if present in sufficient frequencies  can completely control and perhaps clear infection  an observation that provides a rationale for the development of safe  persistent vectors that can elicit and maintain such responses.
196,restoration of chaperone-mediated autophagy in aging liver improves cellular maintenance and hepatic function,chaperone-mediated autophagy (cma)  a selective mechanism for degradation of cytosolic proteins in lysosomes  contributes to the removal of altered proteins as part of the cellular quality-control systems. we have previously found that cma activity declines in aged organisms and have proposed that this failure in cellular clearance could contribute to the accumulation of altered proteins  the abnormal cellular homeostasis and  eventually  the functional loss characteristic of aged organisms. to determine whether these negative features of aging can be prevented by maintaining efficient autophagic activity until late in life  in this work we have corrected the cma defect in aged rodents. we have generated a double transgenic mouse model in which the amount of the lysosomal receptor for cma  previously shown to decrease in abundance with age  can be modulated. we have analyzed in this model the consequences of preventing the age-dependent decrease in receptor abundance in aged rodents at the cellular and organ levels. we show here that cma activity is maintained until advanced ages if the decrease in the receptor abundance is prevented and that preservation of autophagic activity is associated with lower intracellular accumulation of damaged proteins  better ability to handle protein damage and improved organ function.
198,a common mechanism of cellular death induced by bactericidal antibiotics,antibiotic mode-of-action classification is based upon drug-target interaction and whether the resultant inhibition of cellular function is lethal to bacteria. here we show that the three major classes of bactericidal antibiotics  regardless of drug-target interaction  stimulate the production of highly deleterious hydroxyl radicals in gram-negative and gram-positive bacteria  which ultimately contribute to cell death. we also show  in contrast  that bacteriostatic drugs do not produce hydroxyl radicals. we demonstrate that the mechanism of hydroxyl radical formation induced by bactericidal antibiotics is the end product of an oxidative damage cellular death pathway involving the tricarboxylic acid cycle  a transient depletion of nadh  destabilization of iron-sulfur clusters  and stimulation of the fenton reaction. our results suggest that all three major classes of bactericidal drugs can be potentiated by targeting bacterial systems that remediate hydroxyl radical damage  including proteins involved in triggering the dna damage response  e.g.  reca.
200,endothelium-mediated relaxation of porcine collateral-dependent arterioles is improved by exercise training.,background endothelium-dependent modulation of coronary tone is impaired in the collateral-dependent coronary microcirculation. we used a porcine model of chronic coronary occlusion and collateral development to evaluate the hypothesis that exercise training enhances endothelium-mediated relaxation and increases endothelial nitric oxide synthase (ecnos) mrna levels of collateral-dependent microvasculature. methods and results adult female miniature swine were subjected to chronic  progressive ameroid occlusion of the proximal left circumflex coronary artery (lcx); after 2 months  animals were randomly exposed to 16-week exercise-training (ex group; treadmill running) or sedentary (sed group; cage confinement) protocols. after completion of ex or sed programs  coronary arterioles ( approximately 100 microm in diameter) were isolated from collateral-dependent lcx (distal to occlusion) and nonoccluded left anterior descending coronary artery (lad) regions of each heart. arterioles were studied by in vitro videomicroscopy or frozen for ecnos mrna analysis (rt-pcr techniques). relaxation to the endothelium-dependent vasodilator bradykinin was decreased (p<0.05) in arterioles isolated from collateral-dependent lcx versus nonoccluded lad regions of sed animals. bradykinin-mediated relaxation  however  was not different in lcx versus lad arterioles isolated from ex animals. nitroprusside-induced relaxation was unaffected by either chronic occlusion or exercise. importantly  ecnos mrna expression was significantly decreased in arterioles isolated from lcx versus lad regions of sed animals. after training  ecnos mrna expression was not different between lad and lcx arterioles. conclusions these data indicate that exercise training enhances bradykinin-mediated relaxation of collateral-dependent lcx arterioles isolated after chronic coronary occlusion  most likely because of effects on ecnos mrna expression and increased production of no.
202,abnormalities in the myeloid progenitor compartment in down syndrome fetal liver precede acquisition of gata1 mutations.,down syndrome (ds) children have a high frequency of acute megakaryoblastic leukemia (amkl) in early childhood. at least 2 in utero genetic events are required  although not sufficient  for ds-amkl: trisomy 21 (t21) and n-terminal-truncating gata1 mutations. to investigate the role of t21 in ds-amkl  we compared second trimester hemopoiesis in ds without gata1 mutations to gestation-matched normal controls. in all ds fetal livers (fls)  but not marrows  megakaryocyte-erythroid progenitor frequency was increased (55.9% +/- 4% vs 17.1% +/- 3%  cd34(+)cd38(+) cells; p < .001) with common myeloid progenitors (19.6% +/- 2% vs 44.0% +/- 7%) and granulocyte-monocyte (gm) progenitors (15.8% +/- 4% vs 34.5% +/- 9%) commensurately reduced. clonogenicity of ds-fl versus normal fl cd34(+) cells was markedly increased (78% +/- 7% vs 15% +/- 3%) affecting megakaryocyte-erythroid ( approximately 7-fold higher) and gm and colony-forming unit-granulocyte  erythrocyte macrophage  megakaryocyte (cfu-gemm) progenitors. replating efficiency of cfu-gemm was also markedly increased. these data indicate that t21 itself profoundly disturbs fl hemopoiesis and they provide a testable hypothesis to explain the increased susceptibility to gata1 mutations in ds-amkl and ds-associated transient myeloproliferative disorder.
204,familial risk of lymphoproliferative tumors in families of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia: results from the swedish family-cancer database.,the importance of genetic factors in etiology of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (cll) is suggested by family and population studies. however  the spectrum of malignancies sharing common genetic factors with cll and the effects of sex and age on familial risk are unknown. we used the swedish family-cancer database to test for increased familial risks of cll and other lymphoproliferative tumors. cancer diagnoses from 1958 to 1998 were assessed in 14 336 first-degree relatives of 5918 cll cases and in 28 876 first-degree relatives of 11 778 controls. cancer risks in relatives of cases were compared with those in relatives of controls using marginal survival models. relatives of cases were at significantly increased risk for cll (relative risk [rr] = 7.52; 95% confidence interval [ci]  3.63-15.56)  for non-hodgkin lymphoma (rr = 1.45; 95% ci  0.98-2.16)  and for hodgkin lymphoma (rr = 2.35; 95% ci  1.08-5.08). cll risks were similar in parents  siblings  and offspring of cases  in male and female relatives  and were not affected by the case's age at diagnosis. anticipation was not significant when analyzed using life table methods. we conclude that the familial component of cll is shared with other lymphoproliferative malignances  suggesting common genetic pathways. however  because clinically diagnosed cll is uncommon  absolute excess risk to relatives is small.
206,microvessel density and status of p53 protein as potential prognostic factors for adjuvant anthracycline chemotherapy in retrospective analysis of early breast cancer patients group,a considerable subgroup of patients with early breast cancer does not address benefits of anthracycline based chemotherapy. the aim of this retrospective study was to investigate the effect of microvessel density (mvd) and status of p53 protein on 5-year disease free survival (dfs) in the group of breast cancer patients treated with anthracyclines in adjuvant setting. correlations between mvd  p53 status and other clinicopathological parameters were also assessed. mvd and p53 status were analyzed immunohistochemically in the group of 172 women with breast cancer in clinical stage t1-2  n1-n2  m0. there were 123 tumors (71.5 %) with lower mvd (≤ 214.8 microvesells/mm(2)) and 49 (28.5 %) with higher mvd (>214.8 microvesells/mm(2)). the proportion of higher mvd tumors significantly increased in n2 (p = 0.000) and in estrogen (p = 0.046) or progesterone receptors (p = 0.029) negative tumors. p53 positivity was indicated in 50 cancers (29.1 %) and was significantly associated with higher grade (p = 0.000)  steroid receptors negativity (p = 0.000)  cytokeratin5/6 positivity (p = 0.026)  topoisomerase iiα overexpression (p = 0.005) and higher proliferation rate (p = 0.001). in univariate analysis  higher mvd (p = 0.016) and p53 negativity (p = 0.023) were significantly related with longer dfs (median follow-up 36 months). in multivariate cox regression analysis mvd was independently associated with dfs. these data suggest that higher mvd is favourable prognostic factors for early advanced breast cancer patients after adjuvant anthracycline based chemotherapy.
208,genetics of obesity in adult adoptees and their biological siblings.,an adoption study of genetic effects on obesity in adulthood was carried out in which adoptees separated from their natural parents very early in life were compared with their biological full and half siblings reared by their natural parents. the adoptees represented four groups who by sampling from a larger population were categorised as either thin  medium weight  overweight  or obese. weight and height were obtained for 115 full siblings of 57 adoptees and for 850 half siblings of 341 adoptees. in full siblings body mass index (kg/m2) significantly increased with weight of the adoptees. body mass index of the half siblings showed a steady but weaker increase across the four weight groups of adoptees. there were no significant interactions with sex of the adoptees  sex of the siblings  or (for the half siblings) sex of the common parent. in contrast with the findings in half siblings and (previously) the natural parents there was a striking  significant increase in body mass index between full siblings of overweight and obese adoptees. the degree of fatness in adults living in the same environment appears to be influenced by genetic factors independent of sex  which may include polygenic as well as major gene effects on obesity.
210,a role for fibroblasts in mediating the effects of tobacco-induced epithelial cell growth and invasion.,cigarette smoke and smokeless tobacco extracts contain multiple carcinogenic compounds  but little is known about the mechanisms by which tumors develop and progress upon chronic exposure to carcinogens such as those present in tobacco products. here  we examine the effects of smokeless tobacco extracts on human oral fibroblasts. we show that smokeless tobacco extracts elevated the levels of intracellular reactive oxygen  oxidative dna damage  and dna double-strand breaks in a dose-dependent manner. extended exposure to extracts induced fibroblasts to undergo a senescence-like growth arrest  with striking accompanying changes in the secretory phenotype. using cocultures of smokeless tobacco extracts-exposed fibroblasts and immortalized but nontumorigenic keratinocytes  we further show that factors secreted by extracts-modified fibroblasts increase the proliferation and invasiveness of partially transformed epithelial cells  but not their normal counterparts. in addition  smokeless tobacco extracts-exposed fibroblasts caused partially transformed keratinocytes to lose the expression of e-cadherin and zo-1  as well as involucrin  changes that are indicative of compromised epithelial function and commonly associated with malignant progression. together  our results suggest that fibroblasts may contribute to tumorigenesis indirectly by increasing epithelial cell aggressiveness. thus  tobacco may not only initiate mutagenic changes in epithelial cells but also promote the growth and invasion of mutant cells by creating a procarcinogenic stromal environment.
212,basal keratinocyte tetrasomy in low-grade squamous intra-epithelial lesions of the cervix is restricted to high and intermediate risk hpv infection but is not type-specific,human papillomavirus (hpv) infection appears to be an early event in cervical carcinogenesis with additional abnormalities being required for biological transformation. we have analysed 179 low-grade cervical squamous intra-epithelial lesions (sils) and 15 normal cervices for the presence of hpv using both in situ hybridization and polymerase chain reaction (pcr). pcr was performed with gp5+/gp6+ primers followed by hybridization using probes for low (hpv 6  11  40  42  43  44)  intermediate (hpv 31  33  35  39  51  52  58  59  66 and 68) and high-risk hpvs (hpv 16  18  45 and 56). interphase cytogenetic analysis using pericentromeric probes for chromosomes 1  3  4  6  10  11  17  18 and x was also performed to identify numerical chromosomal abnormalities. tetrasomy of all nine chromosomes was identified within basal keratinocytes  was restricted to epithelia infected with high risk (17 of 46) or intermediate risk (23 of 83) hpvs but was not hpv type-specific. tetrasomy was not identified in any of the epithelia infected with low risk hpvs (n = 62). these numbers include multiple infection. these findings indicate that the induction of tetrasomy is a property restricted to high and intermediate-risk hpv types but that it is not type-specific. the factors governing which lesions will develop this abnormality are as yet unclear. © 2000 cancer research campaign
214,fty720 (fingolimod) is a neuroprotective and disease-modifying agent in cellular and mouse models of huntington disease.,huntington disease (hd) is a genetic neurodegenerative disorder for which there is currently no cure and no way to stop or even slow the brain changes it causes. in the present study  we aimed to investigate whether fty720  the first approved oral therapy for multiple sclerosis  may be effective in hd models and eventually constitute an alternative therapeutic approach for the treatment of the disease. here  we utilized preclinical target validation paradigms and examined the in vivo efficacy of chronic administration of fty720 in r6/2 hd mouse model. our findings indicate that fty720 improved motor function  prolonged survival and reduced brain atrophy in r6/2 mice. the beneficial effect of fty720 administration was associated with a significant strengthening of neuronal activity and connectivity and  with reduction of mutant huntingtin aggregates  and it was also paralleled by increased phosphorylation of mutant huntingtin at serine 13/16 residues that are predicted to attenuate protein toxicity.
216,hnrnp a1 associates with telomere ends and stimulates telomerase activity.,telomerase is a ribonucleoprotein enzyme complex that reverse-transcribes an integral rna template to add short dna repeats to the 3'-ends of telomeres. g-quadruplex structure in a dna substrate can block its extension by telomerase. we have found that hnrnp a1--which was previously implicated in telomere length regulation--binds to both single-stranded and structured human telomeric repeats  and in the latter case  it disrupts their higher-order structure. using an in vitro telomerase assay  we observed that depletion of hnrnp a/b proteins from 293 human embryonic kidney cell extracts dramatically reduced telomerase activity  which was fully recovered upon addition of purified recombinant hnrnp a1. this finding suggests that hnrnp a1 functions as an auxiliary  if not essential  factor of telomerase holoenzyme. we further show  using chromatin immunoprecipitation  that hnrnp a1 associates with human telomeres in vivo. we propose that hnrnp a1 stimulates telomere elongation through unwinding of a g-quadruplex or g-g hairpin structure formed at each translocation step.
218,dynamic capsule restructuring by the main pneumococcal autolysin lyta in response to the epithelium,bacterial pathogens produce complex carbohydrate capsules to protect against bactericidal immune molecules. paradoxically  the pneumococcal capsule sensitizes the bacterium to antimicrobial peptides found on epithelial surfaces. here we show that upon interaction with antimicrobial peptides  encapsulated pneumococci survive by removing capsule from the cell surface within minutes in a process dependent on the suicidal amidase autolysin lyta. in contrast to classical bacterial autolysis  during capsule shedding  lyta promotes bacterial survival and is dispersed circumferentially around the cell. however  both autolysis and capsule shedding depend on the cell wall hydrolytic activity of lyta. capsule shedding drastically increases invasion of epithelial cells and is the main pathway by which pneumococci reduce surface bound capsule during early acute lung infection of mice. the previously unrecognized role of lyta in removing capsule to combat antimicrobial peptides may explain why nearly all clinical isolates of pneumococci conserve this enzyme despite the lethal selective pressure of antibiotics.
220,histone acetylation and dna demethylation of t cells result in an anaplastic large cell lymphoma-like phenotype.,a characteristic feature of anaplastic large cell lymphoma is the significant repression of the t-cell expression program despite its t-cell origin. the reasons for this down-regulation of t-cell phenotype are still unknown. to elucidate whether epigenetic mechanisms are responsible for the loss of the t-cell phenotype  we treated anaplastic large cell lymphoma and t-cell lymphoma/leukemia cell lines (n=4  each) with epigenetic modifiers to evoke dna demethylation and histone acetylation. global gene expression data from treated and untreated cell lines were generated and selected  and differentially expressed genes were evaluated by real-time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction and western blot analysis. additionally  histone h3 lysine 27 trimethylation was analyzed by chromatin immunoprecipitation. combined dna demethylation and histone acetylation of anaplastic large cell lymphoma cells was not able to reconstitute their t-cell phenotype. instead  the same treatment induced in t cells: (i) an up-regulation of anaplastic large cell lymphoma-characteristic genes (e.g. id2  lgals1  c-jun)  and (ii) an almost complete extinction of their t-cell phenotype including cd3  lck and zap70. in addition  suppressive trimethylation of histone h3 lysine 27 of important t-cell transcription factor genes (gata3  lef1  tcf1) was present in anaplastic large cell lymphoma cells  which is in line with their absence in primary tumor specimens as demonstrated by immunohistochemistry. our data suggest that epigenetically activated suppressors (e.g. id2) contribute to the down-regulation of the t-cell expression program in anaplastic large cell lymphoma  which is maintained by trimethylation of histone h3 lysine 27.
222,mechanisms that specify promoter nucleosome location and identity,the chromatin architecture of eukaryotic gene promoters is generally characterized by a nucleosome-free region (nfr) flanked by at least one h2a.z variant nucleosome. computational predictions of nucleosome positions based on thermodynamic properties of dna-histone interactions have met with limited success. here we show that the action of the essential rsc remodeling complex in s. cerevisiae helps explain the discrepancy between theory and experiment. in rsc-depleted cells  nfrs shrink such that the average positions of flanking nucleosomes move toward predicted sites. nucleosome positioning at distinct subsets of promoters additionally requires the essential myb family proteins abf1 and reb1  whose binding sites are enriched in nfrs. in contrast  h2a.z deposition is dispensable for nucleosome positioning. by regulating h2a.z deposition using a steroid-inducible protein splicing strategy  we show that nfr establishment is necessary for h2a.z deposition. these studies suggest an ordered pathway for the assembly of promoter chromatin architecture.
224,determinants of neonatal mortality in indonesia,background neonatal mortality accounts for almost 40 per cent of under-five child mortality  globally. an understanding of the factors related to neonatal mortality is important to guide the development of focused and evidence-based health interventions to prevent neonatal deaths. this study aimed to identify the determinants of neonatal mortality in indonesia  for a nationally representative sample of births from 1997 to 2002. methods the data source for the analysis was the 2002-2003 indonesia demographic and health survey from which survival information of 15 952 singleton live-born infants born between 1997 and 2002 was examined. multilevel logistic regression using a hierarchical approach was performed to analyze the factors associated with neonatal deaths  using community  socio-economic status and proximate determinants. results at the community level  the odds of neonatal death was significantly higher for infants from east java (or = 5.01  p = 0.00)  and for north  central and southeast sulawesi and gorontalo combined (or = 3.17  p = 0.03) compared to the lowest neonatal mortality regions of bali  south sulawesi and jambi provinces. a progressive reduction in the odds was found as the percentage of deliveries assisted by trained delivery attendants in the cluster increased. the odds of neonatal death were higher for infants born to both mother and father who were employed (or = 1.84  p = 0.00) and for infants born to father who were unemployed (or = 2.99  p = 0.02). the odds were also higher for higher rank infants with a short birth interval (or = 2.82  p = 0.00)  male infants (or = 1.49  p = 0.01)  smaller than average-sized infants (or = 2.80  p = 0.00)  and infant's whose mother had a history of delivery complications (or = 1.81  p = 0.00). infants receiving any postnatal care were significantly protected from neonatal death (or = 0.63  p = 0.03). conclusion public health interventions directed at reducing neonatal death should address community  household and individual level factors which significantly influence neonatal mortality in indonesia. low birth weight and short birth interval infants as well as perinatal health services factors  such as the availability of skilled birth attendance and postnatal care utilization should be taken into account when planning the interventions to reduce neonatal mortality in indonesia.
226,high-threshold mechanosensitive ion channels blocked by a novel conopeptide mediate pressure-evoked pain,little is known about the molecular basis of somatosensory mechanotransduction in mammals. we screened a library of peptide toxins for effects on mechanically activated currents in cultured dorsal root ganglion neurons. one conopeptide analogue  termed nmb-1 for noxious mechanosensation blocker 1  selectively inhibits (ic50 1 µm) sustained mechanically activated currents in a subset of sensory neurons. biotinylated nmb-1 retains activity and binds selectively to peripherin-positive nociceptive sensory neurons. the selectivity of nmb-1 was confirmed by the fact that it has no inhibitory effects on voltage-gated sodium and calcium channels  or ligand-gated channels such as acid-sensing ion channels or trpa1 channels. conversely  the tarantula toxin  gsmtx-4  which inhibits stretch-activated ion channels  had no effects on mechanically activated currents in sensory neurons. in behavioral assays  nmb-1 inhibits responses only to high intensity  painful mechanical stimulation and has no effects on low intensity mechanical stimulation or thermosensation. unexpectedly  nmb-1 was found to also be an inhibitor of rapid fm1-43 loading (a measure of mechanotransduction) in cochlear hair cells. these data demonstrate that pharmacologically distinct channels respond to distinct types of mechanical stimuli and suggest that mechanically activated sustained currents underlie noxious mechanosensation. nmb-1 thus provides a novel diagnostic tool for the molecular definition of channels involved in hearing and pressure-evoked pain.
228,fiji: an open-source platform for biological-image analysis,fiji is a distribution of the popular open-source software imagej focused on biological-image analysis. fiji uses modern software engineering practices to combine powerful software libraries with a broad range of scripting languages to enable rapid prototyping of image-processing algorithms. fiji facilitates the transformation of new algorithms into imagej plugins that can be shared with end users through an integrated update system. we propose fiji as a platform for productive collaboration between computer science and biology research communities.
230,optimized crispr/cas tools for efficient germline and somatic genome engineering in drosophila.,the type ii clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (crispr)/crispr-associated (cas) system has emerged recently as a powerful method to manipulate the genomes of various organisms. here  we report a toolbox for high-efficiency genome engineering of drosophila melanogaster consisting of transgenic cas9 lines and versatile guide rna (grna) expression plasmids. systematic evaluation reveals cas9 lines with ubiquitous or germ-line-restricted patterns of activity. we also demonstrate differential activity of the same grna expressed from different u6 snrna promoters  with the previously untested u6:3 promoter giving the most potent effect. an appropriate combination of cas9 and grna allows targeting of essential and nonessential genes with transmission rates ranging from 25-100%. we also demonstrate that our optimized crispr/cas tools can be used for offset nicking-based mutagenesis. furthermore  in combination with oligonucleotide or long double-stranded donor templates  our reagents allow precise genome editing by homology-directed repair with rates that make selection markers unnecessary. last  we demonstrate a novel application of crispr/cas-mediated technology in revealing loss-of-function phenotypes in somatic cells following efficient biallelic targeting by cas9 expressed in a ubiquitous or tissue-restricted manner. our crispr/cas tools will facilitate the rapid evaluation of mutant phenotypes of specific genes and the precise modification of the genome with single-nucleotide precision. our results also pave the way for high-throughput genetic screening with crispr/cas.
232,biochemical properties of highly neuroinvasive prion strains,infectious prions propagate from peripheral entry sites into the central nervous system (cns)  where they cause progressive neurodegeneration that ultimately leads to death. yet the pathogenesis of prion disease can vary dramatically depending on the strain  or conformational variant of the aberrantly folded and aggregated protein  prp(sc). although most prion strains invade the cns  some prion strains cannot gain entry and do not cause clinical signs of disease. the conformational basis for this remarkable variation in the pathogenesis among strains is unclear. using mouse-adapted prion strains  here we show that highly neuroinvasive prion strains primarily form diffuse aggregates in brain and are noncongophilic  conformationally unstable in denaturing conditions  and lead to rapidly lethal disease. these neuroinvasive strains efficiently generate prp(sc) over short incubation periods. in contrast  the weakly neuroinvasive prion strains form large fibrillary plaques and are stable  congophilic  and inefficiently generate prp(sc) over long incubation periods. overall  these results indicate that the most neuroinvasive prion strains are also the least stable  and support the concept that the efficient replication and unstable nature of the most rapidly converting prions may be a feature linked to their efficient spread into the cns.
234,new developments in the atsas program package for small-angle scattering data analysis,new developments in the program package atsas (version 2.4) for the processing and analysis of isotropic small-angle x-ray and neutron scattering data are described. they include (i) multiplatform data manipulation and display tools  (ii) programs for automated data processing and calculation of overall parameters  (iii) improved usage of high- and low-resolution models from other structural methods  (iv) new algorithms to build three-dimensional models from weakly interacting oligomeric systems and complexes  and (v) enhanced tools to analyse data from mixtures and flexible systems. the new atsas release includes installers for current major platforms (windows  linux and mac osx) and provides improved indexed user documentation. the web-related developments  including a user discussion forum and a widened online access to run atsas programs  are also presented.
236,genetic and functional diversification of small rna pathways in plants,multicellular eukaryotes produce small rna molecules (approximately 21–24 nucleotides) of two general types  microrna (mirna) and short interfering rna (sirna). they collectively function as sequence-specific guides to silence or regulate genes  transposons  and viruses and to modify chromatin and genome structure. formation or activity of small rnas requires factors belonging to gene families that encode dicer (or dicer-like [dcl]) and argonaute proteins and  in the case of some sirnas  rna-dependent rna polymerase (rdr) proteins. unlike many animals  plants encode multiple dcl and rdr proteins. using a series of insertion mutants of arabidopsis thaliana  unique functions for three dcl proteins in mirna (dcl1)  endogenous sirna (dcl3)  and viral sirna (dcl2) biogenesis were identified. one rdr protein (rdr2) was required for all endogenous sirnas analyzed. the loss of endogenous sirna in dcl3 and rdr2 mutants was associated with loss of heterochromatic marks and increased transcript accumulation at some loci. defects in sirna-generation activity in response to turnip crinkle virus in dcl2 mutant plants correlated with increased virus susceptibility. we conclude that proliferation and diversification of dcl and rdr genes during evolution of plants contributed to specialization of small rna-directed pathways for development  chromatin structure  and defense.
238,validating a conceptual model for an inter-professional approach to shared decision making: a mixed methods study,rationale  aims and objectives following increased interest in having inter-professional (ip) health care teams engage patients in decision making  we developed a conceptual model for an ip approach to shared decision making (sdm) in primary care. we assessed the validity of the model with stakeholders in canada. methods in 15 individual interviews and 7 group interviews with 79 stakeholders  we asked them to: (1) propose changes to the ip-sdm model; (2) identify barriers and facilitators to the model's implementation in clinical practice; and (3) assess the model using a theory appraisal questionnaire. we performed a thematic analysis of the transcripts and a descriptive analysis of the questionnaires. results stakeholders suggested placing the patient at its centre; extending the concept of family to include significant others; clarifying outcomes; highlighting the concept of time; merging the micro  meso and macro levels in one figure; and recognizing the influence of the environment and emotions. the most common barriers identified were time constraints  insufficient resources and an imbalance of power among health professionals. the most common facilitators were education and training in inter-professionalism and sdm  motivation to achieve an ip approach to sdm  and mutual knowledge and understanding of disciplinary roles. most stakeholders considered that the concepts and relationships between the concepts were clear and rated the model as logical  testable  having clear schematic representation  and being relevant to inter-professional collaboration  sdm and primary care. conclusions stakeholders validated the new ip-sdm model for primary care settings and proposed few modifications. future research should assess if the model helps implement sdm in ip clinical practice.
240,microrna-31/factor-inhibiting hypoxia-inducible factor 1 nexus regulates keratinocyte differentiation.,notch plays a critical role in the transition from proliferation to differentiation in the epidermis and corneal epithelium. furthermore  aberrant notch signaling is a feature of diseases like psoriasis  eczema  nonmelanoma skin cancer  and melanoma where differentiation and proliferation are impaired. whereas much is known about the downstream events following notch signaling  factors responsible for negatively regulating notch receptor signaling after ligand activation are incompletely understood. notch can undergo hydroxylation by factor-inhibiting hypoxia-inducible factor 1 (fih-1); however  the biological significance of this phenomenon is unclear. here we show that fih-1 expression is up-regulated in diseased epidermis and corneal epithelium. elevating fih-1 levels in primary human epidermal keratinocytes (heks) and human corneal epithelial keratinocytes (hceks) impairs differentiation in submerged cultures and in a "three-dimensional" organotypic raft model of human epidermis  in part  via a coordinate decrease in notch signaling. knockdown of fih-1 enhances keratinocyte differentiation. loss of fih-1 in vivo increased notch activity in the limbal epithelium  resulting in a more differentiated phenotype. microrna-31 (mir-31) is an endogenous negative regulator of fih-1 expression that results in keratinocyte differentiation  mediated by notch activation. ectopically expressing mir-31 in an undifferentiated corneal epithelial cell line promotes differentiation and recapitulates a corneal epithelium in a three-dimensional raft culture model. our results define a previously unknown mechanism for keratinocyte fate decisions where notch signaling potential is  in part  controlled through a mir-31/fih-1 nexus.
242,the arabidopsis chromatin-modifying nuclear sirna pathway involves a nucleolar rna processing center,in arabidopsis thaliana  small interfering rnas (sirnas) direct cytosine methylation at endogenous dna repeats in a pathway involving two forms of nuclear rna polymerase iv (pol iva and pol ivb)  rna-dependent rna polymerase 2 (rdr2)  dicer-like 3 (dcl3)  argonaute4 (ago4)  the chromatin remodeler drd1  and the de novo cytosine methyltransferase drm2. we show that rdr2  dcl3  ago4  and nrpd1b (the largest subunit of pol ivb) colocalize with sirnas within the nucleolus. by contrast  pol iva and drd1 are external to the nucleolus and colocalize with endogenous repeat loci. mutation-induced loss of pathway proteins causes downstream proteins to mislocalize  revealing their order of action. pol iva acts first  and its localization is rna dependent  suggesting an rna template. we hypothesize that maintenance of the heterochromatic state involves locus-specific pol iva transcription followed by sirna production and assembly of ago4- and nrpd1b-containing silencing complexes within nucleolar processing centers.
244,antioxidants attenuate the plasma cytokine response to exercise in humans.,exercise increases plasma tnf-alpha  il-1beta  and il-6  yet the stimuli and sources of tnf-alpha and il-1beta remain largely unknown. we tested the role of oxidative stress and the potential contribution of monocytes in this cytokine (especially il-1beta) response in previously untrained individuals. six healthy nonathletes performed two 45-min bicycle exercise sessions at 70% of vo(2 max) before and after a combination of antioxidants (vitamins e  a  and c for 60 days; allopurinol for 15 days; and n-acetylcysteine for 3 days). blood was drawn at baseline  end-exercise  and 30 and 120 min postexercise. plasma cytokines were determined by elisa and monocyte intracellular cytokine level by flow cytometry. before antioxidants  tnf-alpha increased by 60%  il-1beta by threefold  and il-6 by sixfold secondary to exercise (p < 0.05). after antioxidants  plasma il-1beta became undetectable  the tnf-alpha response to exercise was abolished  and the il-6 response was significantly blunted (p < 0.05). exercise did not increase the percentage of monocytes producing the cytokines or their mean fluorescence intensity. we conclude that in untrained humans oxidative stress is a major stimulus for exercise-induced cytokine production and that monocytes play no role in this process.
246,aurora b phosphorylates spatially distinct targets to differentially regulate the kinetochore-microtubule interface.,accurate chromosome segregation requires carefully regulated interactions between kinetochores and microtubules  but how plasticity is achieved to correct diverse attachment defects remains unclear. here we demonstrate that aurora b kinase phosphorylates three spatially distinct targets within the conserved outer kinetochore knl1/mis12 complex/ndc80 complex (kmn) network  the key player in kinetochore-microtubule attachments. the combinatorial phosphorylation of the kmn network generates graded levels of microtubule-binding activity  with full phosphorylation severely compromising microtubule binding. altering the phosphorylation state of each protein causes corresponding chromosome segregation defects. importantly  the spatial distribution of these targets along the kinetochore axis leads to their differential phosphorylation in response to changes in tension and attachment state. in total  rather than generating exclusively binary changes in microtubule binding  our results suggest a mechanism for the tension-dependent fine-tuning of kinetochore-microtubule interactions.
248,orai1 and stim1 are critical for breast tumor cell migration and metastasis.,tumor metastasis is the primary cause of death of cancer patients. understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying tumor metastasis will provide potential drug targets. we report here that orai1 and stim1  both of which are involved in store-operated calcium entry  are essential for breast tumor cell migration in vitro and tumor metastasis in mice. reduction of orai1 or stim1 by rna interference in highly metastatic human breast cancer cells or treatment with a pharmacological inhibitor of store-operated calcium channels decreased tumor metastasis in animal models. our data demonstrate a role for orai1 and stim1 in tumor metastasis and suggest store-operated calcium entry channels as potential cancer therapeutic targets.
250,pseudoknots: rna structures with diverse functions,rna molecules fulfill a diverse set of biological functions within cells  from the transfer of genetic information from dna to protein  to enzymatic catalysis. reflecting this range of roles  simple linear strings of rna—made up of uracil  guanine  cytosine  and adenine—form a variety of complex three-dimensional structures. just as proteins form distinct structural motifs such as zinc fingers and beta barrels  certain structures are also commonly adopted by rna molecules. among the most prevalent rna structures is a motif known as the pseudoknot. first recognized in the turnip yellow mosaic virus [1]  a pseudoknot is an rna structure that is minimally composed of two helical segments connected by single-stranded regions or loops (figure 1). although several distinct folding topologies of pseudoknots exist  the best characterized is the h type. in the h-type fold  the bases in the loop of a hairpin form intramolecular pairs with bases outside of the stem (figure 1a and ​and1b).1b). this causes the formation of a second stem and loop  resulting in a pseudoknot with two stems and two loops (figure 1c). the two stems are able to stack on top of each other to form a quasi-continuous helix with one continuous and one discontinuous strand. the single-stranded loop regions often interact with the adjacent stems (loop 1–stem 2 or loop 2–stem 1) to form hydrogen bonds and to participate in the overall structure of the molecule. hence  this relatively simple fold can yield very complex and stable rna structures. due to variation of the lengths of the loops and stems  as well as the types of interactions between them  pseudoknots represent a structurally diverse group. it is fitting that they play a variety of diverse roles in biology. these roles include forming the catalytic core of various ribozymes [2 3]  self-splicing introns [4]  and telomerase [5]. additionally  pseudoknots play critical roles in altering gene expression by inducing ribosomal frameshifting in many viruses [6–9].
252,malignancies  prothrombotic mutations  and the risk of venous thrombosis.,context venous thrombosis is a common complication in patients with cancer  leading to additional morbidity and compromising quality of life. objective to identify individuals with cancer with an increased thrombotic risk  evaluating different tumor sites  the presence of distant metastases  and carrier status of prothrombotic mutations. design  setting  and patients a large population-based  case-control (multiple environmental and genetic assessment [mega] of risk factors for venous thrombosis) study of 3220 consecutive patients aged 18 to 70 years  with a first deep venous thrombosis of the leg or pulmonary embolism  between march 1  1999  and may 31  2002  at 6 anticoagulation clinics in the netherlands  and separate 2131 control participants (partners of the patients) reported via a questionnaire on acquired risk factors for venous thrombosis. three months after discontinuation of the anticoagulant therapy  all patients and controls were interviewed  a blood sample was taken  and dna was isolated to ascertain the factor v leiden and prothrombin 20210a mutations. main outcome measure risk of venous thrombosis. results the overall risk of venous thrombosis was increased 7-fold in patients with a malignancy (odds ratio [or]  6.7; 95% confidence interval [ci]  5.2-8.6) vs persons without malignancy. patients with hematological malignancies had the highest risk of venous thrombosis  adjusted for age and sex (adjusted or  28.0; 95% ci  4.0-199.7)  followed by lung cancer and gastrointestinal cancer. the risk of venous thrombosis was highest in the first few months after the diagnosis of malignancy (adjusted or  53.5; 95% ci  8.6-334.3). patients with cancer with distant metastases had a higher risk vs patients without distant metastases (adjusted or  19.8; 95% ci  2.6-149.1). carriers of the factor v leiden mutation who also had cancer had a 12-fold increased risk vs individuals without cancer and factor v leiden (adjusted or  12.1; 95% ci  1.6-88.1). similar results were indirectly calculated for the prothrombin 20210a mutation in patients with cancer. conclusions patients with cancer have a highly increased risk of venous thrombosis especially in the first few months after diagnosis and in the presence of distant metastases. carriers of the factor v leiden and prothrombin 20210a mutations appear to have an even higher risk.
254,the essence of snps.,single nucleotide polymorphisms (snps) are an abundant form of genome variation  distinguished from rare variations by a requirement for the least abundant allele to have a frequency of 1% or more. a wide range of genetics disciplines stand to benefit greatly from the study and use of snps. the recent surge of interest in snps stems from  and continues to depend upon  the merging and coincident maturation of several research areas  i.e. (i) large-scale genome analysis and related technologies  (ii) bio-informatics and computing  (iii) genetic analysis of simple and complex disease states  and (iv) global human population genetics. these fields will now be propelled forward  often into uncharted territories  by ongoing discovery efforts that promise to yield hundreds of thousands of human snps in the next few years. major questions are now being asked  experimentally  theoretically and ethically  about the most effective ways to unlock the full potential of the upcoming snp revolution.
256,activation of frontal neocortical areas by vocal production in marmosets,primates often rely on vocal communication to mediate social interactions. although much is known about the acoustic structure of primate vocalizations and the social context in which they are usually uttered  our knowledge about the neocortical control of audio-vocal interactions in primates is still incipient  being mostly derived from lesion studies in squirrel monkeys and macaques. to map the neocortical areas related to vocal control in a new world primate species  the common marmoset  we employed a method previously used with success in other vertebrate species: analysis of the expression of the immediate early gene egr-1 in freely behaving animals. the neocortical distribution of egr-1 immunoreactive cells in three marmosets that were exposed to the playback of conspecific vocalizations and vocalized spontaneously (h/v group) was compared to data from three other marmosets that also heard the playback but did not vocalize (h/n group). the anterior cingulate cortex  the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex and the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex presented a higher number of egr-1 immunoreactive cells in the h/v group than in h/n animals. our results provide direct evidence that the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex  the region that comprises broca's area in humans and has been associated with auditory processing of species-specific vocalizations and orofacial control in macaques  is engaged during vocal output in marmosets. altogether  our results support the notion that the network of neocortical areas related to vocal communication in marmosets is quite similar to that of old world primates. the vocal production role played by these areas and their importance for the evolution of speech in primates are discussed.
258,an excitatory loop with astrocytes contributes to drive neurons to seizure threshold,seizures in focal epilepsies are sustained by a highly synchronous neuronal discharge that arises at restricted brain sites and subsequently spreads to large portions of the brain. despite intense experimental research in this field  the earlier cellular events that initiate and sustain a focal seizure are still not well defined. their identification is central to understand the pathophysiology of focal epilepsies and to develop new pharmacological therapies for drug-resistant forms of epilepsy. the prominent involvement of astrocytes in ictogenesis was recently proposed. we test here whether a cooperation between astrocytes and neurons is a prerequisite to support ictal (seizure-like) and interictal epileptiform events. simultaneous patch-clamp recording and ca2+ imaging techniques were performed in a new in vitro model of focal seizures induced by local applications of n-methyl-d-aspartic acid (nmda) in rat entorhinal cortex slices. we found that a ca2+ elevation in astrocytes correlates with both the initial development and the maintenance of a focal  seizure-like discharge. a delayed astrocyte activation during ictal discharges was also observed in other models (including the whole in vitro isolated guinea pig brain) in which the site of generation of seizure activity cannot be precisely monitored. in contrast  interictal discharges were not associated with ca2+ changes in astrocytes. selective inhibition or stimulation of astrocyte ca2+ signalling blocked or enhanced  respectively  ictal discharges  but did not affect interictal discharge generation. our data reveal that neurons engage astrocytes in a recurrent excitatory loop (possibly involving gliotransmission) that promotes seizure ignition and sustains the ictal discharge. this neuron-astrocyte interaction may represent a novel target to develop effective therapeutic strategies to control seizures.
260,the atypical antipsychotic olanzapine causes weight gain by targeting serotonin receptor 2c.,atypical antipsychotics such as olanzapine often induce excessive weight gain and type 2 diabetes. however  the mechanisms underlying these drug-induced metabolic perturbations remain poorly understood. here  we used an experimental model that reproduces olanzapine-induced hyperphagia and obesity in female c57bl/6 mice. we found that olanzapine treatment acutely increased food intake  impaired glucose tolerance  and altered physical activity and energy expenditure in mice. furthermore  olanzapine-induced hyperphagia and weight gain were blunted in mice lacking the serotonin 2c receptor (htr2c). finally  we showed that treatment with the htr2c-specific agonist lorcaserin suppressed olanzapine-induced hyperphagia and weight gain. lorcaserin treatment also improved glucose tolerance in olanzapine-fed mice. collectively  our studies suggest that olanzapine exerts some of its untoward metabolic effects via antagonism of htr2c.
262,foxo4 is necessary for neural differentiation of human embryonic stem cells.,proteostasis is critical for maintaining cell function and proteome stability may play an important role in human embryonic stem cell (hesc) immortality. notably  hesc populations exhibit a high assembly of active proteasomes  a key node of the proteostasis network. foxo4  an insulin/igf-1 responsive transcription factor  regulates proteasome activity in hescs. we find that loss of foxo4 reduces the potential of hescs to differentiate into neural lineages. therefore  foxo4 crosses evolutionary boundaries and links hesc function to invertebrate longevity modulation.
264,in vitro characterization of the anti-pd-1 antibody nivolumab  bms-936558  and in vivo toxicology in non-human primates.,the programmed death-1 (pd-1) receptor serves as an immunologic checkpoint  limiting bystander tissue damage and preventing the development of autoimmunity during inflammatory responses. pd-1 is expressed by activated t cells and downmodulates t-cell effector functions upon binding to its ligands  pd-l1 and pd-l2  on antigen-presenting cells. in patients with cancer  the expression of pd-1 on tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes and its interaction with the ligands on tumor and immune cells in the tumor microenvironment undermine antitumor immunity and support its rationale for pd-1 blockade in cancer immunotherapy. this report details the development and characterization of nivolumab  a fully human igg4 (s228p) anti-pd-1 receptor-blocking monoclonal antibody. nivolumab binds to pd-1 with high affinity and specificity  and effectively inhibits the interaction between pd-1 and its ligands. in vitro assays demonstrated the ability of nivolumab to potently enhance t-cell responses and cytokine production in the mixed lymphocyte reaction and superantigen or cytomegalovirus stimulation assays. no in vitro antibody-dependent cell-mediated or complement-dependent cytotoxicity was observed with the use of nivolumab and activated t cells as targets. nivolumab treatment did not induce adverse immune-related events when given to cynomolgus macaques at high concentrations  independent of circulating anti-nivolumab antibodies where observed. these data provide a comprehensive preclinical characterization of nivolumab  for which antitumor activity and safety have been demonstrated in human clinical trials in various solid tumors.
266,aptamer-functionalized lipid nanoparticles targeting osteoblasts as a novel rna interference–based bone anabolic strategy,currently  major concerns about the safety and efficacy of rna interference (rnai)-based bone anabolic strategies still exist because of the lack of direct osteoblast-specific delivery systems for osteogenic sirnas. here we screened the aptamer ch6 by cell-selex  specifically targeting both rat and human osteoblasts  and then we developed ch6 aptamer–functionalized lipid nanoparticles (lnps) encapsulating osteogenic pleckstrin homology domain-containing family o member 1 (plekho1) sirna (ch6-lnps-sirna). our results showed that ch6 facilitated in vitro osteoblast-selective uptake of plekho1 sirna  mainly via macropinocytosis  and boosted in vivo osteoblast-specific plekho1 gene silencing  which promoted bone formation  improved bone microarchitecture  increased bone mass and enhanced mechanical properties in both osteopenic and healthy rodents. these results indicate that osteoblast-specific aptamer-functionalized lnps could act as a new rnai-based bone anabolic strategy  advancing the targeted delivery selectivity of osteogenic sirnas from the tissue level to the cellular level.
268,alterations of white matter integrity in adults with major depressive disorder: a magnetic resonance imaging study.,objective the purpose of our study was to investigate alterations of white matter integrity in adults with major depressive disorder (mdd) using magnetic resonance imaging (mri). methods we performed diffusion tensor imaging with a 3t mri scanner on 45 patients with major depression and 45 healthy controls matched for age  sex and education. using a voxel-based analysis  we measured the fractional anisotropy (fa)  and we investigated the differences between the patient and control groups. we examined the correlations between the microstructure abnormalities of white matter and symptom severity  age of illness onset and cumulative illness duration  respectively. results we found a significant decrease in fa in the left hemisphere  including the anterior limb of the internal capsule and the inferior parietal portion of the superior longitudinal fasciculus  in patients with mdd compared with healthy controls. diffusion tensor imaging measures in the left anterior limb of the internal capsule were negatively related to the severity of depressive symptoms  even after we controlled for age and sex. conclusion our findings provide new evidence of microstructural changes of white matter in non-late-onset adult depression. our results complement those observed in late-life depression and support the hypothesis that the disruption of cortical- subcortical circuit integrity may be involved in the etiology of major depressive disorder.
270,30 years of nf-κb: a blossoming of relevance to human pathobiology,nf-κb was discovered 30 years ago as a rapidly inducible transcription factor. since that time  it has been found to have a broad role in gene induction in diverse cellular responses  particularly throughout the immune system. here  we summarize elaborate regulatory pathways involving this transcription factor and use recent discoveries in human genetic diseases to place specific proteins within their relevant medical and biological contexts.
272,in vitro anti-tumor effects of statins on head and neck squamous cell carcinoma: a systematic review,background statins are commonly used against arteriosclerotic disease  but recent retrospective analyses have suggested that statins also prevent cancer. the aim of this systematic review is to verify the vitro anti-tumor effects of statins on head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. methods studies were gathered by searching cochrane  medline  embase  lilacs  and pubmed  up until may 9  2015  with no time or language restrictions. only in vitro studies that discuss the effect of statins on head and neck carcinoma were selected. results of 153 identified papers  14 studies met the inclusion criteria. these studies demonstrated that statins had a significant effect on head and neck squamous cell carcinoma cell lines and influenced cell viability  cell cycle  cell death  and protein expression levels involved in pathways of carcinogenesis  which corroborates with the potential in vitro anti-tumor effects. it provides highlights about the biological mechanisms of statins used alone or associated with traditional therapy for cancer. conclusions though there are few studies on the topic  currently available evidence suggests that statins shows that preclinical experiments supports the potentiality of statin as an adjuvant agent in chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy approaches routinely used in the management of hnscc and should undergo further clinical assessment.
274,fructosamine is a useful indicator of hyperglycaemia and glucose control in clinical and epidemiological studies – cross-sectional and longitudinal experience from the amoris cohort,context fructosamine is a glycemic biomarker which may be useful for indication and control of diabetes respectively. objective the objective of the study was to evaluate fructosamine as an indicator of hyperglycaemia and glucose control in subjects with diabetes. design  setting & patients from the amoris cohort  subjects with serum glucose  fructosamine and hba1c from the same examination were studied cross-sectionally and longitudinally (n = 10 987; 5 590 overnight-fasting). the guidelines of the american diabetes association were followed for classification of prediabetes and diabetes. separate analyses were performed in patients with a newly detected or a known diagnosis of type 1 or type 2 diabetes respectively. results all three biomarkers were strongly correlated. with regard to the association between fructosamine and hba1c pearson linear correlation coefficients in the range of 0.67-0.75 were observed in fasting and non-fasting subjects with type 1 or type 2 diabetes. analyses of glucose control in fasting patients with type 2 diabetes having all three biomarkers measured at three separate occasions within on average 290 days of the index examination showed similar trends over time for glucose  fructosamine and hba1c. discrimination of subjects with and without diabetes across the range of fructosamine levels was good (area under curve (auc) 0.91-0.95) and a fructosamine level of 2.5 mmol/l classified subjects to diabetes with a sensitivity of 61% and a specificity of 97%. conclusions fructosamine is closely associated with hba1c and glucose respectively and may be a useful biomarker of hyperglycaemia and glucose control in clinical and epidemiological studies.
276,robustness of random forest-based gene selection methods,gene selection is an important part of microarray data analysis because it provides information that can lead to a better mechanistic understanding of an investigated phenomenon. at the same time  gene selection is very difficult because of the noisy nature of microarray data. as a consequence  gene selection is often performed with machine learning methods. the random forest method is particularly well suited for this purpose. in this work  four state-of-the-art random forest-based feature selection methods were compared in a gene selection context. the analysis focused on the stability of selection because  although it is necessary for determining the significance of results  it is often ignored in similar studies. the comparison of post-selection accuracy in the validation of random forest classifiers revealed that all investigated methods were equivalent in this context. however  the methods substantially differed with respect to the number of selected genes and the stability of selection. of the analysed methods  the boruta algorithm predicted the most genes as potentially important. the post-selection classifier error rate  which is a frequently used measure  was found to be a potentially deceptive measure of gene selection quality. when the number of consistently selected genes was considered  the boruta algorithm was clearly the best. although it was also the most computationally intensive method  the boruta algorithm's computational demands could be reduced to levels comparable to those of other algorithms by replacing the random forest importance with a comparable measure from random ferns (a similar but simplified classifier). despite their design assumptions  the minimal optimal selection methods  were found to select a high fraction of false positives.
278,functional elements within the dynein microtubule-binding domain,dynein interacts with microtubules through an atp-sensitive linkage mapped to a structurally complex region of the heavy chain following the fourth p-loop motif. virtually nothing is known regarding how binding affinity is achieved and modulated during atp hydrolysis. we have performed a detailed dissection of the microtubule contact site  using fragment expression  alanine substitution  and peptide competition. our work identifies three clusters of amino acids important for the physical contact with microtubules; two of these fall within a region sharing sequence homology with map1b  the third in a region just downstream. amino acid substitutions within any one of these regions can eliminate or weaken microtubule binding (kk3379  80  e3385  k3387  k3397  kk3410 11  w3414  rkk3418-20  f3426  r3464  s3466  and k3467)  suggesting that their activities are highly coordinated. a peptide that actively displaces map1b from microtubules perturbs dynein binding  supporting previous evidence for similar sites of interaction. we have also identified four amino acids whose substitutions affect release of the motor from the microtubule (e3413  r3444  e3460  and c3469). these suggest that nucleotide-sensitive affinity may be locally controlled at the site of contact. our work is the first detailed description of dynein-tubulin interactions and provides a framework for understanding how affinity is achieved and modulated.
280,effect of hyperosmolality on alkaline phosphatase and stress-response protein 27 of mcf-7 breast cancer cells,mcf-7  a continuous cell line derived from a human breast carcinoma  exhibits very low alkaline phosphatase (alp) activity. the enzyme is heat-stable and is inhibited by l-phenylalanine and l-phenylalanylgly-cylglycine  but not by l-homoarginine  1-bromotetramisole  or levamisole. these data indicate that mcf-7 produces term-placental alp  the oncodevelopmental enzyme form inappropriately expressed by a variety of human tumors. in contrast to human cancer cells that produce this enzyme monophenotypically  alp activity of mcf-7 cells is not significantly increased by glucocorticoids or sodium butyrate. by comparison  exposure to hyperosmolality causes a striking increase in enzyme activity. cycloheximide blocks this effect. the results obtained with cell-free assays were confirmed by cytochemical and immunocytochemical assays on whole cells. because some of the agents tested in the enzyme modulation experiments affect cell proliferation  their possible effect on two stress-response proteins (srp 27 and srp 72) was also examined; specific immunocytochemical assays were used. these tests revealed that neither protein is affected by glucocorticoids; that sodium butyrate has no effect on srp 27  but alters the intracellular distribution of srp 72; and that hyperosmolality  while not significantly affecting srp 72  causes an increase in srp 27.
282,rnase h and postreplication repair protect cells from ribonucleotides incorporated in dna,the chemical identity and integrity of the genome is challenged by the incorporation of ribonucleoside triphosphates (rntps) in place of deoxyribonucleoside triphosphates (dntps) during replication. misincorporation is limited by the selectivity of dna replicases. we show that accumulation of ribonucleoside monophosphates (rnmps) in the genome causes replication stress and has toxic consequences  particularly in the absence of rnase h1 and rnase h2  which remove rnmps. we demonstrate that postreplication repair (prr) pathways-mms2-dependent template switch and pol ζ-dependent bypass-are crucial for tolerating the presence of rnmps in the chromosomes; indeed  we show that pol ζ efficiently replicates over 1-4 rnmps. moreover  cells lacking rnase h accumulate mono- and polyubiquitylated pcna and have a constitutively activated prr. our findings describe a crucial function for rnase h1  rnase h2  template switch  and translesion dna synthesis in overcoming rntps misincorporated during dna replication  and may be relevant for the pathogenesis of aicardi-goutières syndrome.
284,an insulin-like signaling pathway affects both longevity and reproduction in caenorhabditis elegans.,mutations in daf-2 and age-1 cause a dramatic increase in longevity as well as developmental arrest at the dauer diapause stage in caenorhabditis elegans. daf-2 and age-1 encode components of an insulin-like signaling pathway. both daf-2 and age-1 act at a similar point in the genetic epistasis pathway for dauer arrest and longevity and regulate the activity of the daf-16 gene. mutations in daf-16 cause a dauer-defective phenotype and are epistatic to the diapause arrest and life span extension phenotypes of daf-2 and age-1 mutants. here we show that mutations in this pathway also affect fertility and embryonic development. weak daf-2 alleles  and maternally rescued age-1 alleles that cause life span extension but do not arrest at the dauer stage  also reduce fertility and viability. we find that age-1(hx546) has reduced both maternal and zygotic age-1 activity. daf-16 mutations suppress all of the daf-2 and age-1 phenotypes  including dauer arrest  life span extension  reduced fertility  and viability defects. these data show that insulin signaling  mediated by daf-2 through the age-1 phosphatidylinositol-3-oh kinase  regulates reproduction and embryonic development  as well as dauer diapause and life span  and that daf-16 transduces these signals. the regulation of fertility  life span  and metabolism by an insulin-like signaling pathway is similar to the endocrine regulation of metabolism and fertility by mammalian insulin signaling.
286,positional cloning of the apeced gene,autoimmune polyglandular syndrome type i (aps 1  also called apeced) is an autosomal-recessive disorder that maps to human chromosome 21q22.3 between markers d21s49 and d21s171 by linkage studies. we have isolated a novel gene from this region  aire (autoimmune regulator)  which encodes a protein containing motifs suggestive of a transcription factor including two zinc-finger (phd-finger) motifs  a proline-rich region and three lxxll motifs. two mutations  a c→t substitution that changes the arg 257 (cga) to a stop codon (tga) and an a→g substitution that changes the lys 83 (aag) to a glu codon (gag)  were found in this novel gene in swiss and finnish apeced patients. the arg257stop (r257x) is the predominant mutation in finnish apeced patients  accounting for 10/12 alleles studied. these results indicate that this gene is responsible for the pathogenesis of apeced. the identification of the gene defective in apeced should facilitate the genetic diagnosis and potential treatment of the disease and further enhance our general understanding of the mechanisms underlying autoimmune diseases.
288,differentiation of trophoblast stem cells into giant cells is triggered by p57/kip2 inhibition of cdk1 activity.,genome endoreduplication during mammalian development is a rare event for which the mechanism is unknown. it first appears when fibroblast growth factor 4 (fgf4) deprivation induces differentiation of trophoblast stem (ts) cells into the nonproliferating trophoblast giant (tg) cells required for embryo implantation. here we show that ro3306 inhibition of cyclin-dependent protein kinase 1 (cdk1)  the enzyme required to enter mitosis  induced differentiation of ts cells into tg cells. in contrast  ro3306 induced abortive endoreduplication and apoptosis in embryonic stem cells  revealing that inactivation of cdk1 triggers endoreduplication only in cells programmed to differentiate into polyploid cells. similarly  fgf4 deprivation resulted in cdk1 inhibition by overexpressing two cdk-specific inhibitors  p57/kip2 and p21/cip1. ts cell mutants revealed that p57 was required to trigger endoreduplication by inhibiting cdk1  while p21 suppressed expression of the checkpoint protein kinase chk1  thereby preventing induction of apoptosis. furthermore  cdk2(-/-) ts cells revealed that cdk2 is required for endoreduplication when cdk1 is inhibited. expression of p57 in tg cells was restricted to g-phase nuclei to allow cdk activation of s phase. thus  endoreduplication in ts cells is triggered by p57 inhibition of cdk1 with concomitant suppression of the dna damage response by p21.
290,a mutation in orai1 causes immune deficiency by abrogating crac channel function,antigen stimulation of immune cells triggers ca2+ entry through ca2+ release-activated ca2+ (crac) channels  promoting the immune response to pathogens by activating the transcription factor nfat. we have previously shown that cells from patients with one form of hereditary severe combined immune deficiency (scid) syndrome are defective in store-operated ca2+ entry and crac channel function. here we identify the genetic defect in these patients  using a combination of two unbiased genome-wide approaches: a modified linkage analysis with single-nucleotide polymorphism arrays  and a drosophila rna interference screen designed to identify regulators of store-operated ca2+ entry and nfat nuclear import. both approaches converged on a novel protein that we call orai1  which contains four putative transmembrane segments. the scid patients are homozygous for a single missense mutation in orai1  and expression of wild-type orai1 in scid t cells restores store-operated ca2+ influx and the crac current (icrac). we propose that orai1 is an essential component or regulator of the crac channel complex.
292,canonical wnt signaling regulates organ-specific assembly and differentiation of cns vasculature.,every organ depends on blood vessels for oxygen and nutrients  but the vasculature associated with individual organs can be structurally and molecularly diverse. the central nervous system (cns) vasculature consists of a tightly sealed endothelium that forms the blood-brain barrier  whereas blood vessels of other organs are more porous. wnt7a and wnt7b encode two wnt ligands produced by the neuroepithelium of the developing cns coincident with vascular invasion. using genetic mouse models  we found that these ligands directly target the vascular endothelium and that the cns uses the canonical wnt signaling pathway to promote formation and cns-specific differentiation of the organ's vasculature.
294,generating diploid embryos from xenopus tropicalis.,a spectacular advantage of xenopus tropicalis is the ease with which diploid embryos can be generated year round. by the simple administration of human chorionic gonadotropin  an investigator can generate many hundreds of synchronized embryos by in vitro fertilization or thousands of embryos from a mating pair. the ability to induce ovulations when desired facilitates many different experiments such as experimental embryology  molecular manipulation of gene products  and genetics.
296,getting started with yeast.,publisher summary the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae is now recognized as a model system representing a simple eukaryote whose genome can be easily manipulated. yeast has only a slightly greater genetic complexity than bacteria and shares many of the technical advantages that permitted rapid progress in the molecular genetics of prokaryotes and their viruses. some of the properties that make yeast particularly suitable for biological studies include rapid growth  dispersed cells  the ease of replica plating and mutant isolation  a well-defined genetic system  and most important  a highly versatile dna transformation system. being nonpathogenic  yeast can be handled with little precautions. large quantities of normal baker's yeast are commercially available and can provide a cheap source for biochemical studies. the development of dna transformation has made yeast particularly accessible to gene cloning and genetic engineering techniques. structural genes corresponding to virtually any genetic trait can be identified by complementation from plasmid libraries. plasmids can be introduced into yeast cells either as replicating molecules or by integration into the genome. in contrast to most other organisms  integrative recombination of transforming dna in yeast proceeds exclusively via homologous recombination. cloned yeast sequences  accompanied by foreign sequences on plasmids  can therefore be directed at will to specific locations in the genome.
298,meiosis in drosophila: seeing is believing.,recently many exciting advances have been achieved in our understanding of drosophila meiosis due to combined cytological and genetic approaches. new techniques have permitted the characterization of chromosome position and spindle formation in female meiosis i. the proteins encoded by the nod and ncd genes  two genes known to be needed for the proper partitioning of chromosomes lacking exchange events  have been identified and found to be kinesin-like motors. the effects of mutations in these genes on the spindle and chromosomes  together with the localization of the proteins  have yielded a model for the mechanism of female meiosis i. in male meiosis i  the chromosomal regions responsible for homolog pairing have been resolved to the level of specific dna sequences. this provides a foundation for elucidating the molecular basis of meiotic pairing. the cytological techniques available in drosophila also have permitted inroads into the regulation of sister-chromatid segregation. the products of two genes (mei-s332 and ord) essential for sister-chromatid cohesion have been identified recently. additional advances in understanding drosophila meiosis are the delineation of a functional centromere by using minichromosome derivatives and the identification of several regulatory genes for the meiotic cell cycle.
300,variants at 6q21 implicate prdm1 in the etiology of therapy-induced second malignancies after hodgkin's lymphoma,survivors of pediatric hodgkin's lymphoma are at risk for radiation therapy–induced second malignant neoplasms (smns). we identified two variants at chromosome 6q21 associated with smns in survivors of hodgkin's lymphoma treated with radiation therapy as children but not as adults. the variants comprise a risk locus associated with decreased basal expression of prdm1 (encoding pr domain containing 1  with znf domain) and impaired induction of the prdm1 protein after radiation exposure. these data suggest a new gene-exposure interaction that may implicate prdm1 in the etiology of radiation therapy-induced smns.
302,the vti family of snare proteins is necessary for plant viability and mediates different protein transport pathways.,the arabidopsis genome contains a family of v-snares: vti11  vti12  and vti13. only vti11 and vti12 are expressed at appreciable levels. although these two proteins are 60% identical  they complement different transport pathways when expressed in the yeast vti1 mutant. vti11 was identified recently as the mutated gene in the shoot gravitropic mutant zig. here  we show that the vti11 zig mutant has defects in vascular patterning and auxin transport. an arabidopsis t-dna insertion mutant  vti12  had a normal phenotype under nutrient-rich growth conditions. however  under nutrient-poor conditions  vti12 showed an accelerated senescence phenotype  suggesting that vti12 may play a role in the plant autophagy pathway. vti11 and vti12 also were able to substitute for each other in their respective snare complexes  and a double-mutant cross between zig and vti12 was embryo lethal. these results suggest that some vti1 protein was necessary for plant viability and that the two proteins were partially functionally redundant.
304,chd4 is a rangtp-dependent map that stabilizes microtubules and regulates bipolar spindle formation,background production of the gtp-bound form of the ran gtpase (rangtp) around chromosomes induces spindle assembly by activating nuclear localization signal (nls)-containing proteins. several nls proteins have been identified as spindle assembly factors  but the complexity of the process led us to search for additional proteins with distinct roles in spindle assembly. results we identify a chromatin-remodeling atpase  chd4  as a rangtp-dependent microtubule (mt)-associated protein (map). mt binding occurs via the region containing an nls and chromatin-binding domains. in xenopus egg extracts and cultured cells  chd4 largely dissociates from mitotic chromosomes and partially localizes to the spindle. immunodepletion of chd4 from egg extracts significantly reduces the quantity of mts produced around chromatin and prevents spindle assembly. chd4 rnai in both hela and drosophila s2 cells induces defects in spindle assembly and chromosome alignment in early mitosis  leading to chromosome missegregation. further analysis in egg extracts and in hela cells reveals that chd4 is a rangtp-dependent mt stabilizer. moreover  the chd4-containing nurd complex promotes organization of mts into bipolar spindles in egg extracts. importantly  this function of chd4 is independent of chromatin remodeling. conclusions our results uncover a new role for chd4 as a map required for mt stabilization and involved in generating spindle bipolarity.
306,6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase links oxidative ppp  lipogenesis and tumor growth by inhibiting lkb1-ampk signaling,the oxidative pentose phosphate pathway (ppp) contributes to tumour growth  but the precise contribution of 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (6pgd)  the third enzyme in this pathway  to tumorigenesis remains unclear. we found that suppression of 6pgd decreased lipogenesis and rna biosynthesis and elevated ros levels in cancer cells  attenuating cell proliferation and tumour growth. 6pgd-mediated production of ribulose-5-phosphate (ru-5-p) inhibits ampk activation by disrupting the active lkb1 complex  thereby activating acetyl-coa carboxylase 1 and lipogenesis. ru-5-p and nadph are thought to be precursors in rna biosynthesis and lipogenesis  respectively; thus  our findings provide an additional link between the oxidative ppp and lipogenesis through ru-5-p-dependent inhibition of lkb1-ampk signalling. moreover  we identified and developed 6pgd inhibitors  physcion and its derivative s3  that effectively inhibited 6pgd  cancer cell proliferation and tumour growth in nude mice xenografts without obvious toxicity  suggesting that 6pgd could be an anticancer target.
308,sema3a regulates bone-mass accrual through sensory innervations,semaphorin 3a (sema3a) is a diffusible axonal chemorepellent that has an important role in axon guidance. previous studies have demonstrated that sema3a−/− mice have multiple developmental defects due to abnormal neuronal innervations. here we show in mice that sema3a is abundantly expressed in bone  and cell-based assays showed that sema3a affected osteoblast differentiation in a cell-autonomous fashion. accordingly  sema3a−/− mice had a low bone mass due to decreased bone formation. however  osteoblast-specific sema3a-deficient mice (sema3acol1−/− and sema3aosx−/− mice) had normal bone mass  even though the expression of sema3a in bone was substantially decreased. in contrast  mice lacking sema3a in neurons (sema3asynapsin−/− and sema3anestin−/− mice) had low bone mass  similar to sema3a−/− mice  indicating that neuron-derived sema3a is responsible for the observed bone abnormalities independent of the local effect of sema3a in bone. indeed  the number of sensory innervations of trabecular bone was significantly decreased in sema3asynapsin−/− mice  whereas sympathetic innervations of trabecular bone were unchanged. moreover  ablating sensory nerves decreased bone mass in wild-type mice  whereas it did not reduce the low bone mass in sema3anestin−/− mice further  supporting the essential role of the sensory nervous system in normal bone homeostasis. finally  neuronal abnormalities in sema3a−/− mice  such as olfactory development  were identified in sema3asynasin−/− mice  demonstrating that neuron-derived sema3a contributes to the abnormal neural development seen in sema3a−/− mice  and indicating that sema3a produced in neurons regulates neural development in an autocrine manner. this study demonstrates that sema3a regulates bone remodelling indirectly by modulating sensory nerve development  but not directly by acting on osteoblasts.
310,converging intracranial markers of conscious access,we compared conscious and nonconscious processing of briefly flashed words using a visual masking procedure while recording intracranial electroencephalogram (ieeg) in ten patients. nonconscious processing of masked words was observed in multiple cortical areas  mostly within an early time window (<300 ms)  accompanied by induced gamma-band activity  but without coherent long-distance neural activity  suggesting a quickly dissipating feedforward wave. in contrast  conscious processing of unmasked words was characterized by the convergence of four distinct neurophysiological markers: sustained voltage changes  particularly in prefrontal cortex  large increases in spectral power in the gamma band  increases in long-distance phase synchrony in the beta range  and increases in long-range granger causality. we argue that all of those measures provide distinct windows into the same distributed state of conscious processing. these results have a direct impact on current theoretical discussions concerning the neural correlates of conscious access.
312,matrix remodeling promotes pulmonary hypertension through feedback mechanoactivation of the yap/taz-mir-130/301 circuit.,pulmonary hypertension (ph) is a deadly vascular disease with enigmatic molecular origins. we found that vascular extracellular matrix (ecm) remodeling and stiffening are early and pervasive processes that promote ph. in multiple pulmonary vascular cell types  such ecm stiffening induced the microrna-130/301 family via activation of the co-transcription factors yap and taz. microrna-130/301 controlled a ppar?-apoe-lrp8 axis  promoting collagen deposition and lox-dependent remodeling and further upregulating yap/taz via a mechanoactive feedback loop. in turn  ecm remodeling controlled pulmonary vascular cell crosstalk via such mechanotransduction  modulation of secreted vasoactive effectors  and regulation of associated microrna pathways. in vivo  pharmacologic inhibition of microrna-130/301  apoe  or lox activity ameliorated ecm remodeling and ph. thus  ecm remodeling  as controlled by the yap/taz-mir-130/301 feedback circuit  is an early ph trigger and offers combinatorial therapeutic targets for this devastating disease.
314,age-related changes in kynurenic acid production in rat brain.,two separate in vitro assays were used to examine the biosynthesis of the broad spectrum excitatory amino acid receptor antagonist kynurenic acid (kyna) during the life span of the adult rat. assessment of kyna's anabolic enzyme kynurenine aminotransferase revealed steady increases between 3 and 24 months of age in all five brain regions examined. no changes were observed in the liver. the changes were particularly pronounced in the cortex and in the striatum where enzyme activity increased three-fold during the period studied. kyna production from its bioprecursor l-kynurenine was also investigated in tissue slices and was found to be significantly enhanced in the cortex and hippocampus of old animals. the effect of depolarizing agents or sodium replacement was virtually identical in tissues from young and old rats. these data  which are in excellent agreement with reports on an age-dependent increase of kyna concentration in brain tissue  suggest an enhanced kyna tone in the aged brain. together with the reported decline in cerebral excitatory amino acid receptor densities with age  increased production of kyna may play a role in cognitive and memory dysfunction in old animals.
316,the 1.9 a structure of a proteasome-11s activator complex and implications for proteasome-pan/pa700 interactions.,proteasomes are cylindrical structures that function in multiple cellular processes by degrading a wide variety of cytosolic and nuclear proteins. substrate access and product release from the enclosed catalytic chamber occurs through axial pores that are opened by activator complexes. here  we report high-resolution structures of wild-type and mutant archaeal proteasomes bound to the activator pa26. these structures support the proposal that an ordered open conformation is required for proteolysis and that its formation can be triggered by outward displacement of surrounding residues. the structures and associated biochemical assays reveal the mechanism of binding  which involves an interaction between the pa26 c terminus and a conserved lysine. surprisingly  biochemical observations implicate an equivalent interaction for the unrelated atp-dependent activators pan and pa700.
318,yeast sirtuins and the regulation of aging.,the sirtuins are a phylogenetically conserved family of nad(+) -dependent protein deacetylases that consume one molecule of nad(+) for every deacetylated lysine side chain. their requirement for nad(+) potentially makes them prone to regulation by fluctuations in nad(+) or biosynthesis intermediates  thus linking them to cellular metabolism. the sir2 protein from saccharomyces cerevisiae is the founding sirtuin family member and has been well characterized as a histone deacetylase that functions in transcriptional silencing of heterochromatin domains and as a pro-longevity factor for replicative life span (rls)  defined as the number of times a mother cell divides (buds) before senescing. deleting sir2 shortens rls  while increased gene dosage causes extension. furthermore  sir2 has been implicated in mediating the beneficial effects of caloric restriction (cr) on life span  not only in yeast  but also in higher eukaryotes. while this paradigm has had its share of disagreements and debate  it has also helped rapidly drive the aging research field forward. s. cerevisiae has four additional sirtuins  hst1  hst2  hst3  and hst4. this review discusses the function of sir2 and the hst homologs in replicative aging and chronological aging  and also addresses how the sirtuins are regulated in response to environmental stresses such as cr.
320,the ins and outs of dna transfer in bacteria.,transformation and conjugation permit the passage of dna through the bacterial membranes and represent dominant modes for the transfer of genetic information between bacterial cells or between bacterial and eukaryotic cells. as such  they are responsible for the spread of fitness-enhancing traits  including antibiotic resistance. both processes usually involve the recognition of double-stranded dna  followed by the transfer of single strands. elaborate molecular machines are responsible for negotiating the passage of macromolecular dna through the layers of the cell surface. all or nearly all the machine components involved in transformation and conjugation have been identified  and here we present models for their roles in dna transport.
322,role of dna methylation and epigenetic silencing of hand2 in endometrial cancer development,background endometrial cancer incidence is continuing to rise in the wake of the current ageing and obesity epidemics. much of the risk for endometrial cancer development is influenced by the environment and lifestyle. accumulating evidence suggests that the epigenome serves as the interface between the genome and the environment and that hypermethylation of stem cell polycomb group target genes is an epigenetic hallmark of cancer. the objective of this study was to determine the functional role of epigenetic factors in endometrial cancer development. methods and findings epigenome-wide methylation analysis of >27 000 cpg sites in endometrial cancer tissue samples (n = 64) and control samples (n = 23) revealed that hand2 (a gene encoding a transcription factor expressed in the endometrial stroma) is one of the most commonly hypermethylated and silenced genes in endometrial cancer. a novel integrative epigenome-transcriptome-interactome analysis further revealed that hand2 is the hub of the most highly ranked differential methylation hotspot in endometrial cancer. these findings were validated using candidate gene methylation analysis in multiple clinical sample sets of tissue samples from a total of 272 additional women. increased hand2 methylation was a feature of premalignant endometrial lesions and was seen to parallel a decrease in rna and protein levels. furthermore  women with high endometrial hand2 methylation in their premalignant lesions were less likely to respond to progesterone treatment. hand2 methylation analysis of endometrial secretions collected using high vaginal swabs taken from women with postmenopausal bleeding specifically identified those patients with early stage endometrial cancer with both high sensitivity and high specificity (receiver operating characteristics area under the curve = 0.91 for stage 1a and 0.97 for higher than stage 1a). finally  mice harbouring a hand2 knock-out specifically in their endometrium were shown to develop precancerous endometrial lesions with increasing age  and these lesions also demonstrated a lack of pten expression. conclusions hand2 methylation is a common and crucial molecular alteration in endometrial cancer that could potentially be employed as a biomarker for early detection of endometrial cancer and as a predictor of treatment response. the true clinical utility of hand2 dna methylation  however  requires further validation in prospective studies. please see later in the article for the editors' summary.
324,integrin αvβ3/c-src “oncogenic unit” promotes anchorage-independence and tumor progression,integrins regulate adhesion-dependent growth  survival and invasion of tumor cells. in particular  expression of integrin alpha(v)beta(3) is associated with progression of a variety of human tumors. here we reveal a previously undescribed adhesion-independent role for integrin alpha(v)beta(3) in pancreatic cancer and other carcinomas. specifically  alpha(v)beta(3) expressed in carcinoma cells enhanced anchorage-independent tumor growth in vitro and increased lymph node metastases in vivo. these effects required recruitment of c-src to the beta(3) integrin cytoplasmic tail  leading to c-src activation  crk-associated substrate (cas) phosphorylation and tumor cell survival that  unexpectedly  was independent of cell adhesion or focal adhesion kinase (fak) activation. pharmacological blockade of c-src kinase activity or decreased expression of endogenous alpha(v)beta(3) integrin or c-src not only inhibited anchorage-independent growth but also suppressed metastasis in vivo  yet these manipulations did not affect tumor cell migration or invasion. these data define an unexpected role for an integrin as a mediator of anchorage independence  suggesting that an alpha(v)beta(3)-c-src signaling module may account for the aggressive behavior of integrin alpha(v)beta(3)-expressing tumors in humans.
326,spatiotemporal regulation of epithelial-mesenchymal transition is essential for squamous cell carcinoma metastasis.,epithelial-mesenchymal transition (emt) is implicated in converting stationary epithelial tumor cells into motile mesenchymal cells during metastasis. however  the involvement of emt in metastasis is still controversial  due to the lack of a mesenchymal phenotype in human carcinoma metastases. using a spontaneous squamous cell carcinoma mouse model  we show that activation of the emt-inducing transcription factor twist1 is sufficient to promote carcinoma cells to undergo emt and disseminate into blood circulation. importantly  in distant sites  turning off twist1 to allow reversion of emt is essential for disseminated tumor cells to proliferate and form metastases. our study demonstrates in vivo the requirement of "reversible emt" in tumor metastasis and may resolve the controversy on the importance of emt in carcinoma metastasis.
328,cxcr2 mediates nadph oxidase–independent neutrophil extracellular trap formation in cystic fibrosis airway inflammation,upon activation  neutrophils release dna fibers decorated with antimicrobial proteins  forming neutrophil extracellular traps (nets). although nets are bactericidal and contribute to innate host defense  excessive net formation has been linked to the pathogenesis of autoinflammatory diseases. however  the mechanisms regulating net formation  particularly during chronic inflammation  are poorly understood. here we show that the g protein–coupled receptor (gpcr) cxcr2 mediates net formation. downstream analyses showed that cxcr2-mediated net formation was independent of nadph oxidase and involved src family kinases. we show the pathophysiological relevance of this mechanism in cystic fibrosis lung disease  characterized by chronic neutrophilic inflammation. we found abundant nets in airway fluids of individuals with cystic fibrosis and mouse cystic fibrosis lung disease  and net amounts correlated with impaired obstructive lung function. pulmonary blockade of cxcr2 by intra-airway delivery of small-molecule antagonists inhibited net formation and improved lung function in vivo without affecting neutrophil recruitment  proteolytic activity or antibacterial host defense. these studies establish cxcr2 as a receptor mediating nadph oxidase–independent net formation and provide evidence that this gpcr pathway is operative and druggable in cystic fibrosis lung disease.
330,systems metabolic engineering of escherichia coli for l-threonine production,amino-acid producers have traditionally been developed by repeated random mutagenesis owing to the difficulty in rationally engineering the complex and highly regulated metabolic network. here  we report the development of the genetically defined l-threonine overproducing escherichia coli strain by systems metabolic engineering. feedback inhibitions of aspartokinase i and iii (encoded by thra and lysc  respectively) and transcriptional attenuation regulations (located in thrl) were removed. pathways for thr degradation were removed by deleting tdh and mutating ilva. the meta and lysa genes were deleted to make more precursors available for thr biosynthesis. further target genes to be engineered were identified by transcriptome profiling combined with in silico flux response analysis  and their expression levels were manipulated accordingly. the final engineered e. coli strain was able to produce thr with a high yield of 0.393 g per gram of glucose  and 82.4 g/l thr by fed-batch culture. the systems metabolic engineering strategy reported here may be broadly employed for developing genetically defined organisms for the efficient production of various bioproducts.
332,amyloid-dna composites of bacterial biofilms stimulate autoimmunity.,research on the human microbiome has established that commensal and pathogenic bacteria can influence obesity  cancer  and autoimmunity through mechanisms mostly unknown. we found that a component of bacterial biofilms  the amyloid protein curli  irreversibly formed fibers with bacterial dna during biofilm formation. this interaction accelerated amyloid polymerization and created potent immunogenic complexes that activated immune cells  including dendritic cells  to produce cytokines such as type i interferons  which are pathogenic in systemic lupus erythematosus (sle). when given systemically  curli-dna composites triggered immune activation and production of autoantibodies in lupus-prone and wild-type mice. we also found that the infection of lupus-prone mice with curli-producing bacteria triggered higher autoantibody titers compared to curli-deficient bacteria. these data provide a mechanism by which the microbiome and biofilm-producing enteric infections may contribute to the progression of sle and point to a potential molecular target for treatment of autoimmunity.
334,ly2405319  an engineered fgf21 variant  improves the metabolic status of diabetic monkeys,fibroblast growth factor 21 (fgf21) is a novel metabolic regulator that represents a promising target for the treatment of several metabolic diseases. administration of recombinant wild type fgf21 to diabetic animals leads to a dramatic improvement in glycaemia and ameliorates other systemic measures of metabolic health. here we report the pharmacologic outcomes observed in non-human primates upon administration of a recently described fgf21 analogue  ly2405319 (ly). diabetic rhesus monkeys were treated subcutaneously with ly once daily for a period of seven weeks. the doses of ly used were 3  9 and 50 mg/kg each delivered in an escalating fashion with washout measurements taken at 2  4  6 and 8 weeks following the final ly dose. ly therapy led to a dramatic and rapid lowering of several important metabolic parameters including glucose  body weight  insulin  cholesterol and triglyceride levels at all doses tested. in addition  we observed favorable changes in circulating profiles of adipokines  with increased adiponectin and reduced leptin indicative of direct fgf21 action on adipose tissue. importantly  and for the first time we show that fgf21 based therapy has metabolic efficacy in an animal with late stage diabetes. while the glycemic efficacy of ly in this animal was partially attenuated its lipid lowering effect was fully preserved suggesting that fgf21 may be a viable treatment option even in patients with advanced disease progression. these findings support continued exploration of the fgf21 pathway for the treatment of metabolic disease.
336,host–parasite interactions and the evolution of gene expression,interactions between hosts and parasites provide an ongoing source of selection that promotes the evolution of a variety of features in the interacting species. here  we use a genetically explicit mathematical model to explore how patterns of gene expression evolve at genetic loci responsible for host resistance and parasite infection. our results reveal the striking yet intuitive conclusion that gene expression should evolve along very different trajectories in the two interacting species. specifically  host resistance loci should frequently evolve to co-express alleles  whereas parasite infection loci should evolve to express only a single allele. this result arises because hosts that co-express resistance alleles are able to recognize and clear a greater diversity of parasite genotypes. by the same token  parasites that co-express antigen or elicitor alleles are more likely to be recognized and cleared by the host  and this favours the expression of only a single allele. our model provides testable predictions that can help interpret accumulating data on expression levels for genes relevant to host−parasite interactions.
338,aberrant luminal progenitors as the candidate target population for basal tumor development in brca1 mutation carriers,basal-like breast cancers arising in women carrying mutations in the brca1 gene  encoding the tumor suppressor protein brca1  are thought to develop from the mammary stem cell. to explore early cellular changes that occur in brca1 mutation carriers  we have prospectively isolated distinct epithelial subpopulations from normal mammary tissue and preneoplastic specimens from individuals heterozygous for a brca1 mutation. we describe three epithelial subsets including basal stem/progenitor  luminal progenitor and mature luminal cells. unexpectedly  we found that breast tissue from brca1 mutation carriers harbors an expanded luminal progenitor population that shows factor-independent growth in vitro. moreover  gene expression profiling revealed that breast tissue heterozygous for a brca1 mutation and basal breast tumors were more similar to normal luminal progenitor cells than any other subset  including the stem cell–enriched population. the c-kit tyrosine kinase receptor (encoded by kit) emerged as a key marker of luminal progenitor cells and was more highly expressed in brca1-associated preneoplastic tissue and tumors. our findings suggest that an aberrant luminal progenitor population is a target for transformation in brca1-associated basal tumors .
340,genome-wide loss of 5-hmc is a novel epigenetic feature of huntington's disease.,5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5-hmc) may represent a new epigenetic modification of cytosine. while the dynamics of 5-hmc during neurodevelopment have recently been reported  little is known about its genomic distribution and function(s) in neurodegenerative diseases such as huntington's disease (hd). we here observed a marked reduction of the 5-hmc signal in yac128 (yeast artificial chromosome transgene with 128 cag repeats) hd mouse brain tissues when compared with age-matched wild-type (wt) mice  suggesting a deficiency of 5-hmc reconstruction in hd brains during postnatal development. genome-wide distribution analysis of 5-hmc further confirmed the diminishment of the 5-hmc signal in striatum and cortex in yac128 hd mice. general genomic features of 5-hmc are highly conserved  not being affected by either disease or brain regions. intriguingly  we have identiﬁed disease-specific (yac128 versus wt) differentially hydroxymethylated regions (dhmrs)  and found that acquisition of dhmrs in gene body is a positive epigenetic regulator for gene expression. ingenuity pathway analysis (ipa) of genotype-specific dhmr-annotated genes revealed that alternation of a number of canonical pathways involving neuronal development/differentiation (wnt/β-catenin/sox pathway  axonal guidance signaling pathway) and neuronal function/survival (glutamate receptor/calcium/creb  gaba receptor signaling  dopamine-darpp32 feedback pathway  etc.) could be important for the onset of hd. our results indicate that loss of the 5-hmc marker is a novel epigenetic feature in hd  and that this aberrant epigenetic regulation may impair the neurogenesis  neuronal function and survival in hd brain. our study also opens a new avenue for hd treatment; re-establishing the native 5-hmc landscape may have the potential to slow/halt the progression of hd.
342,increased stress-induced inflammatory responses in male patients with major depression and increased early life stress.,objective the authors sought to determine innate immune system activation following psychosocial stress in patients with major depression and increased early life stress. method plasma interleukin (il)-6  lymphocyte subsets  and dna binding of nuclear factor (nf)-kb in peripheral blood mononuclear cells were compared in medically healthy male subjects with current major depression and increased early life stress (n=14) versus nondepressed male comparison subjects (n=14) before and after completion of the trier social stress test. results trier social stress test-induced increases in il-6 and nf-kappab dna-binding were greater in major depression patients with increased early life stress and independently correlated with depression severity  but not early life stress. natural killer (nk) cell percentages also increased following stress. however  there were no differences between groups and no correlation between nk cell percentage and stress-induced nf-kappab dna-binding or il-6. conclusions male major depression patients with increased early life stress exhibit enhanced inflammatory responsiveness to psychosocial stress  providing preliminary indication of a link between major depression  early life stress and adverse health outcomes in diseases associated with inflammation.
344,a genetic screen identifies an lkb1–mark signalling axis controlling the hippo–yap pathway,the hippo–yap pathway is an emerging signalling cascade involved in the regulation of stem cell activity and organ size. to identify components of this pathway  we performed an rnai-based kinome screen in human cells. our screen identified several kinases not previously associated with hippo signalling that control multiple cellular processes. one of the hits  lkb1  is a common tumour suppressor whose mechanism of action is only partially understood. we demonstrate that lkb1 acts through its substrates of the microtubule affinity-regulating kinase family to regulate the localization of the polarity determinant scribble and the activity of the core hippo kinases. our data also indicate that yap is functionally important for the tumour suppressive effects of lkb1. our results identify a signalling axis that links yap activation with lkb1 mutations  and have implications for the treatment of lkb1-mutant human malignancies. in addition  our findings provide insight into upstream signals of the hippo–yap signalling cascade.
346,partitioning the symptoms of hypoglycaemia using multi-sample confirmatory factor analysis,the allocation of hypoglycaemic symptoms to autonomie or neuroglycopenic groups tends to occur on an a priori basis. in view of the practical need for clear symptom markers of hypoglycaemia more scientific approaches must be pursued. substantial evidence is presented from two large scale studies we performed which support a three factor model of hypoglycaemic symptomatology  based on the statistical associations discovered among symptoms reported by diabetic patients. study 1 involved 295 insulin-treated outpatients and found that 11 key hypoglycaemic symptoms segregated into three clear factors: autonomie (sweating  palpitation  shaking and hunger) neuroglycopenic (confusion  drowsiness  odd behaviour  speech difficulty and incoordination)  and malaise (nausea and headache). the three factors were validated on a separate group of 303 insulin-treated diabetic out-patients. confirmatory factor analyses showed that the three factor model was the optimal model for explaining symptom covariance in each group. a multi-sample confirmatory factor analysis tested the rigorous assumptions that the relative loadings of symptoms on factors across groups were equal  and that the residual variance for each symptom was identical across groups. these assumptions were successful  indicating that the three factor model was replicated in detail across these two large samples. it is suggested that the results indicate valid groupings of symptoms that may be used in future research and in clinical practice.
348,increased adipocyte o2 consumption triggers hif-1α  causing inflammation and insulin resistance in obesity,adipose tissue hypoxia and inflammation have been causally implicated in obesity-induced insulin resistance. here  we report that  early in the course of high-fat diet (hfd) feeding and obesity  adipocyte respiration becomes uncoupled  leading to increased oxygen consumption and a state of relative adipocyte hypoxia. these events are sufficient to trigger hif-1α induction  setting off the chronic adipose tissue inflammatory response characteristic of obesity. at the molecular level  these events involve saturated fatty acid stimulation of the adenine nucleotide translocase 2 (ant2)  an inner mitochondrial membrane protein  which leads to the uncoupled respiratory state. genetic or pharmacologic inhibition of either ant2 or hif-1α can prevent or reverse these pathophysiologic events  restoring a state of insulin sensitivity and glucose tolerance. these results reveal the sequential series of events in obesity-induced inflammation and insulin resistance.
350,characterization of a single-stranded dna-binding protein from pseudomonas aeruginosa pao1.,single-stranded dna-binding protein (ssb) plays an important role in dna metabolism  such as in dna replication  repair  and recombination  and is essential for cell survival. we characterized the single-stranded dna (ssdna)-binding properties of pseudomonas aeruginosa pao1 ssb (passb) by using fluorescence quenching measurements and electrophoretic mobility shift analysis (emsa). analysis of purified passb by gel filtration chromatography revealed a stable tetramer in solution. in fluorescence titrations  passb bound 22-32 nucleotides (nt) per tetramer depending on salt concentration. using emsa  we characterized the stoichiometry of passb complexed with a series of ssdna homopolymers  and the size of the binding site was determined to be 29 ± 1 nt. furthermore  emsa results indicated that the dissociation constants of passb for the first tetramer were less than those for the second tetramer. on the basis of these biophysical analyses  the ssdna binding mode of passb is expected to be noncooperative.
352,detecting and targeting tumor relapse by its resistance to innate effectors at early recurrence,tumor recurrence represents a major clinical challenge. our data show that emergent recurrent tumors acquire a phenotype radically different from that of their originating primary tumors. this phenotype allows them to evade a host-derived innate immune response elicited by the progression from minimal residual disease (mrd) to actively growing recurrence. screening for this innate response predicted accurately in which mice recurrence would occur. premature induction of recurrence resensitized mrd to the primary therapy  suggesting a possible paradigm shift for clinical treatment of dormant disease in which the current expectant approach is replaced with active attempts to uncover mrd before evolution of the escape phenotype is complete. by combining screening with second-line treatments targeting innate insensitivity  up to 100% of mice that would have otherwise relapsed were cured. these data may open new avenues for early detection and appropriately timed  highly targeted treatment of tumor recurrence irrespective of tumor type or frontline treatment.
354,cd169+ macrophages present lipid antigens to mediate early activation of invariant nkt cells in lymph nodes,invariant natural killer t cells (inkt cells) are involved in the host defense against microbial infection. although it is known that inkt cells recognize glycolipids presented by cd1d  how and where they encounter antigen in vivo remains unclear. here we used multiphoton microscopy to visualize the dynamics and activation of inkt cells in lymph nodes. after antigen administration  inkt cells became confined in a cd1d-dependent manner in close proximity to subcapsular sinus cd169(+) macrophages. these macrophages retained  internalized and presented lipid antigen and were required for inkt cell activation  cytokine production and population expansion. thus  cd169(+) macrophages can act as true antigen-presenting cells controlling early inkt cell activation and favoring the fast initiation of immune responses.
356,insertional mutagenesis in gene therapy and stem cell biology.,purpose of review recent preclinical and clinical studies revealed that the semirandom insertion of transgenes into chromosomal dna of hematopoietic cells may induce clonal competition  which potentially may even trigger leukemia or sarcoma. insertional mutagenesis caused by gene vectors has thus led to major uncertainty among those developing advanced hematopoietic cell therapies. this review summarizes novel studies of underlying mechanisms; these studies have demonstrated the possibility of improved gene vector biosafety and generated new insights into stem cell biology. recent findings the characteristic insertion pattern of various retroviral gene vector systems may be explained by properties of the viral integrase and associated cellular cofactors. cell culture assays and animal models  including disease-specific and cancer-prone mouse models  are emerging that reveal the contributions of vector features and systemic factors to induction of clonal imbalance. databases summarizing vector insertion sites in dominant hematopoietic clones are evolving as new tools to identify genes that regulate clonal homeostasis. summary mechanistic studies of insertional mutagenesis by random gene vector insertion will lead to improved tools for advanced hematopoietic cell therapy. simultaneously  fascinating insights into gene networks that regulate cell fitness will be generated  with important consequences for the fields of hematology  oncology and regenerative medicine.
358,human chorionic gonadotropin levels in maternal blood in late pregnancy: relation to birthweight  sex and condition of the infant at birth.,a total of 527 blood samples was obtained from an unselected population of women between 36 and 40 weeks gestation. serum human chorionic gonadotropin (hcg) levels were measured using a specific radioimmunoassay for the beta 1-subunit of hcg. serum hcg levels were higher in primigravidae and in women carrying female fetuses. they were also related to the birthweight of the child and to the occurrence of fetal distress.
360,a candidate gene approach identifies the traf1/c5 region as a risk factor for rheumatoid arthritis,correction for:    kurreeman fas  padyukov l  marques rb  schrodi sj  seddighzadeh m  et al. (2007) a candidate gene approach identifies the traf1/c5 region as a risk factor for rheumatoid arthritis. plos med 4(9): e278. doi:10.1371/journal.pmed.0040278    in table 1  the allele ratio in column eight (allele ratiosb: cases  controls) refers to allele a: allele b and not allele1:allele2 as described in footnote b  with allele a being the susceptibility allele as denoted in column seven. the footnote should read:    bnumber of alleles were compared in cases versus controls: allele a: allele b cases  allele a: allele b controls. allele a refers to the susceptibility alleles as given in column seven.
362,rational design of a flavivirus vaccine by abolishing viral rna 2'-o methylation.,viruses that replicate in the cytoplasm cannot access the host nuclear capping machinery. these viruses have evolved viral methyltransferase(s) to methylate n-7 and 2'-o cap of their rna; alternatively  they "snatch" host mrna cap to form the 5' end of viral rna. the function of 2'-o methylation of viral rna cap is to mimic cellular mrna and to evade host innate immune restriction. a cytoplasmic virus defective in 2'-o methylation is replicative  but its viral rna lacks 2'-o methylation and is recognized and eliminated by the host immune response. such a mutant virus could be rationally designed as a live attenuated vaccine. here  we use japanese encephalitis virus (jev)  an important mosquito-borne flavivirus  to prove this novel vaccine concept. we show that jev methyltransferase is responsible for both n-7 and 2'-o cap methylations as well as evasion of host innate immune response. recombinant virus completely defective in 2'-o methylation was stable in cell culture after being passaged for >30 days. the mutant virus was attenuated in mice  elicited robust humoral and cellular immune responses  and retained the engineered mutation in vivo. a single dose of immunization induced full protection against lethal challenge with jev strains in mice. mechanistically  the attenuation phenotype was attributed to the enhanced sensitivity of the mutant virus to the antiviral effects of interferon and ifit proteins. collectively  the results demonstrate the feasibility of using 2'-o methylation-defective virus as a vaccine approach; this vaccine approach should be applicable to other flaviviruses and nonflaviviruses that encode their own viral 2'-o methyltransferases.
364,oncomir-196 promotes an invasive phenotype in oral cancer through the nme4-jnk-timp1-mmp signaling pathway,background microrna-196 (mir-196)  which is highly up-regulated in oral cancer cells  has been reported to be aberrantly expressed in several cancers; however  the significance of mir-196 in oral cancer has not yet been addressed. methods cellular functions in response to mir-196 modulation were examined  including cell growth  migration  invasion and radio/chemosensitivity. algorithm-based studies were used to identify the regulatory target of mir-196. the mir-196 target gene and downstream molecular mechanisms were confirmed by rt-qpcr  western blot  luciferase reporter and confocal microscopy analyses. mir-196 expression was determined in paired cancer and adjacent normal tissues from oral cancer patients. results both mir-196a and mir-196b were highly over-expressed in the cancer tissue and correlated with lymph node metastasis (p = 0.001 and p = 0.006  respectively). functionally  mir-196 actively promoted cell migration and invasion without affecting cell growth. mechanistically  mir-196 performed it's their function by inhibiting nme4 expression and further activating p-jnk  suppressing timp1  and augmenting mmp1/9. conclusion mir-196 contributes to oral cancer by promoting cell migration and invasion. clinically  mir-196a/b was significantly over-expressed in the cancer tissues and correlated with lymph node metastasis. thus  our findings provide new knowledge of the underlying mechanism of cancer metastasis. mir-196 may serve as a promising marker for better oral cancer management.
366,the impact of the new who antiretroviral treatment guidelines on hiv epidemic dynamics and cost in south africa,background since november 2009  who recommends that adults infected with hiv should initiate antiretroviral therapy (art) at cd4+ cell counts of ≤350 cells/µl rather than ≤200 cells/µl. south africa decided to adopt this strategy for pregnant and tb co-infected patients only. we estimated the impact of fully adopting the new who guidelines on hiv epidemic dynamics and associated costs. methods and finding we used an established model of the transmission and control of hiv in specified sexual networks and healthcare settings. we quantified the model to represent hlabisa subdistrict  kwazulu-natal  south africa. we predicted the hiv epidemic dynamics  number on art and program costs under the new guidelines relative to treating patients at ≤200 cells/µl for the next 30 years. during the first five years  the new who treatment guidelines require about 7% extra annual investments  whereas 28% more patients receive treatment. furthermore  there will be a more profound impact on hiv incidence  leading to relatively less annual costs after seven years. the resulting cumulative net costs reach a break-even point after on average 16 years. conclusions our study strengthens the who recommendation of starting art at ≤350 cells/µl for all hiv-infected patients. apart from the benefits associated with many life-years saved  a modest frontloading appears to lead to net savings within a limited time-horizon. this finding is robust to alternative assumptions and foreseeable changes in art prices and effectiveness. therefore  south africa should aim at rapidly expanding its healthcare infrastructure to fully embrace the new who guidelines.
368,bmi-1 autoantibody as a new potential biomarker for cervical carcinoma,bmi-1 is overexpressed in a variety of cancers  which can elicit an immune response leading to the induction of autoantibodies. however  bmi-1 autoantibody as a biomarker has seldom been studied with the exception of nasopharyngeal carcinoma. whether bmi-1 autoantibodies can be used as a biomarker for cervical carcinoma is unclear. in this study bmi-1 proteins were isolated by screening of a t7 phage cdna library from mixed cervical carcinoma tissues. we analyzed bmi-1 autoantibody levels in serum samples from 67 patients with cervical carcinoma and 65 controls using elisa and immunoblot. bmi-1 mrna or protein levels were over-expressed in cervical carcinoma cell lines. immunoblot results exhibited increased bmi-1 autoantibody levels in patient sera compared to normal sera. additionally  the results for antibody affinity assay showed that there was no difference between cervical polyps and normal sera of bmi-1 autoantibody levels  but it was significantly greater in patient sera than that in normal controls (patient 0.827±0.043 and normal 0.445±0.023; p<0.001). what's more  the levels of bmi-1 autoantibody increased significantly at stage i (0.672±0.019) compared to normal sera (p<0.001)  and levels of bmi-1 autoantibodies were increased gradually during the tumor progression (stage i 0.672±0.019; stage ii 0.775 ±0.019; stage iii 0.890 ±0.027; stage iv 1.043±0.041)  which were significantly correlated with disease progression of cervical cancer (p<0.001). statistical analyses using logistic regression and receiver operating characteristics (roc) curves indicated that the bmi-1 autoantibody level can be used as a biomarker for cervical carcinoma (sensitivity 0.78 and specificity 0.76; auc = 0.922). in conclusion  measuring bmi-1 autoantibody levels of patients with cervical cancer could have clinical prognostic value as well as a non-tissue specific biomarker for neoplasms expressing bmi-1.
370,oncogenic mtor signaling recruits myeloid-derived suppressor cells to promote tumor initiation,myeloid-derived suppressor cells (mdscs) play critical roles in primary and metastatic cancer progression. mdsc regulation is widely variable even among patients harbouring the same type of malignancy  and the mechanisms governing such heterogeneity are largely unknown. here  integrating human tumour genomics and syngeneic mammary tumour models  we demonstrate that mtor signalling in cancer cells dictates a mammary tumour's ability to stimulate mdsc accumulation through regulating g-csf. inhibiting this pathway or its activators (for example  fgfr) impairs tumour progression  which is partially rescued by restoring mdscs or g-csf. tumour-initiating cells (tics) exhibit elevated g-csf. mdscs reciprocally increase tic frequency through activating notch in tumour cells  forming a feedforward loop. analyses of primary breast cancers and patient-derived xenografts corroborate these mechanisms in patients. these findings establish a non-canonical oncogenic role of mtor signalling in recruiting pro-tumorigenic mdscs and show how defined cancer subsets may evolve to promote and depend on a distinct immune microenvironment.
372,astrocytes from familial and sporadic als patients are toxic to motor neurons,amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (als) is a fatal motor neuron disease  with astrocytes implicated as contributing substantially to motor neuron death in familial (f)als. however  the proposed role of astrocytes in the pathology of als derives in part from rodent models of fals based upon dominant mutations within the superoxide dismutase 1 (sod1) gene  which account for <2% of all als cases. their role in sporadic (s)als  which affects >90% of als patients  remains to be established. using astrocytes generated from postmortem tissue from both fals and sals patients  we show that astrocytes derived from both patient groups are similarly toxic to motor neurons. we also demonstrate that sod1 is a viable target for sals  as its knockdown significantly attenuates astrocyte-mediated toxicity toward motor neurons. our data highlight astrocytes as a non-cell autonomous component in sals and provide an in vitro model system to investigate common disease mechanisms and evaluate potential therapies for sals and fals.
374,inhibition of fatty acid oxidation modulates immunosuppressive functions of myeloid-derived suppressor cells and enhances cancer therapies,myeloid-derived suppressor cells (mdsc) promote tumor growth by inhibiting t-cell immunity and promoting malignant cell proliferation and migration. the therapeutic potential of blocking mdsc in tumors has been limited by their heterogeneity  plasticity  and resistance to various chemotherapy agents. recent studies have highlighted the role of energy metabolic pathways in the differentiation and function of immune cells; however  the metabolic characteristics regulating mdsc remain unclear. we aimed to determine the energy metabolic pathway(s) used by mdsc  establish its impact on their immunosuppressive function  and test whether its inhibition blocks mdsc and enhances antitumor therapies. using several murine tumor models  we found that tumor-infiltrating mdsc (t-mdsc) increased fatty acid uptake and activated fatty acid oxidation (fao). this was accompanied by an increased mitochondrial mass  upregulation of key fao enzymes  and increased oxygen consumption rate. pharmacologic inhibition of fao blocked immune inhibitory pathways and functions in t-mdsc and decreased their production of inhibitory cytokines. fao inhibition alone significantly delayed tumor growth in a t-cell-dependent manner and enhanced the antitumor effect of adoptive t-cell therapy. furthermore  fao inhibition combined with low-dose chemotherapy completely inhibited t-mdsc immunosuppressive effects and induced a significant antitumor effect. interestingly  a similar increase in fatty acid uptake and expression of fao-related enzymes was found in human mdsc in peripheral blood and tumors. these results support the possibility of testing fao inhibition as a novel approach to block mdsc and enhance various cancer therapies.
376,clathrin is required for the function of the mitotic spindle,clathrin has an established function in the generation of vesicles that transfer membrane and proteins around the cell. the formation of clathrin-coated vesicles occurs continuously in non-dividing cells  but is shut down during mitosis  when clathrin concentrates at the spindle apparatus. here  we show that clathrin stabilizes fibres of the mitotic spindle to aid congression of chromosomes. clathrin bound to the spindle directly by the amino-terminal domain of clathrin heavy chain. depletion of clathrin heavy chain using rna interference prolonged mitosis; kinetochore fibres were destabilized  leading to defective congression of chromosomes to the metaphase plate and persistent activation of the spindle checkpoint. normal mitosis was rescued by clathrin triskelia but not the n-terminal domain of clathrin heavy chain  indicating that stabilization of kinetochore fibres was dependent on the unique structure of clathrin. the importance of clathrin for normal mitosis may be relevant to understanding human cancers that involve gene fusions of clathrin heavy chain.
378,disease-associated functions of il-33: the new kid in the il-1 family,interleukin-33 (il-33)  a newly described member of the il-1 family  is expressed by many cell types following pro-inflammatory stimulation and is thought to be released on cell lysis. the il-33 receptor  consisting of st2 and il-1 receptor accessory protein  is also widely expressed  particularly by t helper 2 (th2) cells and mast cells. il-33 is host-protective against helminth infection and reduces atherosclerosis by promoting th2-type immune responses. however  il-33 can also promote the pathogenesis of asthma by expanding th2 cells and mediate joint inflammation  atopic dermatitis and anaphylaxis by mast cell activation. thus il-33 could be a new target for therapeutic intervention across a range of diseases.
380,association between infection with helicobacter pylori and risk of gastric cancer: evidence from a prospective investigation.,objective to investigate the association between gastric cancer and prior infection with helicobacter pylori. design case-control comparison of prevalence of igg antibodies to h pylori in blood samples collected prospectively  before diagnosis of gastric cancer in the cases. presence of h pylori antibody (greater than 10 micrograms igg/ml) determined by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (elisa). subjects 29 men with a subsequent diagnosis of gastric cancer and 116 aged matched controls selected from over 22 000 middle aged men participating in two ongoing cohort studies (the british united provident association study and the caerphilly collaborative heart disease study)  who had provided blood samples during 1975-1982. results 20 of the 29 cases (69%) and 54 of the 116 controls (47%) were positive for h pylori specific antibody. the median specific igg concentration was significantly higher in the cases than controls (90 micrograms/ml v 3.6 micrograms/ml  p less than 0.01). the estimated odds ratio for the risk of gastric cancer in those with a history of infection with h pylori was 2.77 (95% confidence interval 1.04 to 7.97  2p = 0.039). conclusions h pylori infection may be an important cause of gastric cancer; between 35% and 55% of all cases may be associated with such an infection.
382,multifunctional in vivo vascular imaging using near-infrared ii fluorescence,in vivo real-time epifluorescence imaging of mouse hind limb vasculatures in the second near-infrared region (nir-ii) is performed using single-walled carbon nanotubes as fluorophores. both high spatial (∼30 μm) and temporal (<200 ms per frame) resolution for small-vessel imaging are achieved at 1–3 mm deep in the hind limb owing to the beneficial nir-ii optical window that affords deep anatomical penetration and low scattering. this spatial resolution is unattainable by traditional nir imaging (nir-i) or microscopic computed tomography  and the temporal resolution far exceeds scanning microscopic imaging techniques. arterial and venous vessels are unambiguously differentiated using a dynamic contrast-enhanced nir-ii imaging technique on the basis of their distinct hemodynamics. further  the deep tissue penetration and high spatial and temporal resolution of nir-ii imaging allow for precise quantifications of blood velocity in both normal and ischemic femoral arteries  which are beyond the capabilities of ultrasonography at lower blood velocities.
384,cardiac myocyte remodeling mediated by n-cadherin-dependent mechanosensing.,cell-to-cell adhesions are crucial in maintaining the structural and functional integrity of cardiac cells. little is known about the mechanosensitivity and mechanotransduction of cell-to-cell interactions. most studies of cardiac mechanotransduction and myofibrillogenesis have focused on cell-extracellular matrix (ecm)-specific interactions. this study assesses the direct role of intercellular adhesion  specifically that of n-cadherin-mediated mechanotransduction  on the morphology and internal organization of neonatal ventricular cardiac myocytes. the results show that cadherin-mediated cell attachments are capable of eliciting a cytoskeletal network response similar to that of integrin-mediated force response and transmission  affecting myofibrillar organization  myocyte shape  and cortical stiffness. traction forces mediated by n-cadherin were shown to be comparable to those sustained by ecm. the directional changes in predicted traction forces as a function of imposed loads (gel stiffness) provide the added evidence that n-cadherin is a mechanoresponsive adhesion receptor. strikingly  the mechanical sensitivity response (gain) in terms of the measured cell-spread area as a function of imposed load (adhesive substrate rigidity) was consistently higher for n-cadherin-coated surfaces compared with ecm protein-coated surfaces. in addition  the cytoskeletal architecture of myocytes on an n-cadherin adhesive microenvironment was characteristically different from that on an ecm environment  suggesting that the two mechanotransductive cell adhesion systems may play both independent and complementary roles in myocyte cytoskeletal spatial organization. these results indicate that cell-to-cell-mediated force perception and transmission are involved in the organization and development of cardiac structure and function.
386,the function and therapeutic potential of long non-coding rnas in cardiovascular development and disease,the popularization of genome-wide analyses and rna sequencing led to the discovery that a large part of the human genome  while effectively transcribed  does not encode proteins. long non-coding rnas have emerged as critical regulators of gene expression in both normal and disease states. studies of long non-coding rnas expressed in the heart  in combination with gene association studies  revealed that these molecules are regulated during cardiovascular development and disease. some long non-coding rnas have been functionally implicated in cardiac pathophysiology and constitute potential therapeutic targets. here  we review the current knowledge of the function of long non-coding rnas in the cardiovascular system  with an emphasis on cardiovascular development and biology  focusing on hypertension  coronary artery disease  myocardial infarction  ischemia  and heart failure. we discuss potential therapeutic implications and the challenges of long non-coding rna research  with directions for future research and translational focus.
388,tet1 is dispensable for maintaining pluripotency and its loss is compatible with embryonic and postnatal development.,the tet family of enzymes (tet1/2/3) converts 5-methylcytosine (5mc) to 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmc). mouse embryonic stem cells (mescs) highly express tet1 and have an elevated level of 5hmc. tet1 has been implicated in esc maintenance and lineage specification in vitro but its precise function in development is not well defined. to establish the role of tet1 in pluripotency and development  we have generated tet1 mutant mescs and mice. tet1(-/-) escs have reduced levels of 5hmc and subtle changes in global gene expression  and are pluripotent and support development of live-born mice in tetraploid complementation assay  but display skewed differentiation toward trophectoderm in vitro. tet1 mutant mice are viable  fertile  and grossly normal  though some mutant mice have a slightly smaller body size at birth. our data suggest that tet1 loss leading to a partial reduction in 5hmc levels does not affect pluripotency in escs and is compatible with embryonic and postnatal development.
390,population density  water supply  and the risk of dengue fever in vietnam: cohort study and spatial analysis,background aedes aegypti  the major vector of dengue viruses  often breeds in water storage containers used by households without tap water supply  and occurs in high numbers even in dense urban areas. we analysed the interaction between human population density and lack of tap water as a cause of dengue fever outbreaks with the aim of identifying geographic areas at highest risk. methods and findings we conducted an individual-level cohort study in a population of 75 000 geo-referenced households in vietnam over the course of two epidemics  on the basis of dengue hospital admissions (n = 3 013). we applied space-time scan statistics and mathematical models to confirm the findings. we identified a surprisingly narrow range of critical human population densities between around 3 000 to 7 000 people/km² prone to dengue outbreaks. in the study area  this population density was typical of villages and some peri-urban areas. scan statistics showed that areas with a high population density or adequate water supply did not experience severe outbreaks. the risk of dengue was higher in rural than in urban areas  largely explained by lack of piped water supply  and in human population densities more often falling within the critical range. mathematical modeling suggests that simple assumptions regarding area-level vector/host ratios may explain the occurrence of outbreaks. conclusions rural areas may contribute at least as much to the dissemination of dengue fever as cities. improving water supply and vector control in areas with a human population density critical for dengue transmission could increase the efficiency of control efforts. please see later in the article for the editors' summary.
392,the sequence alignment/map format and samtools,summary the sequence alignment/map (sam) format is a generic alignment format for storing read alignments against reference sequences  supporting short and long reads (up to 128 mbp) produced by different sequencing platforms. it is flexible in style  compact in size  efficient in random access and is the format in which alignments from the 1000 genomes project are released. samtools implements various utilities for post-processing alignments in the sam format  such as indexing  variant caller and alignment viewer  and thus provides universal tools for processing read alignments. availability http://samtools.sourceforge.net.
394,stresses at the cell-to-substrate interface during locomotion of fibroblasts,recent technological improvements in the elastic substrate method make it possible to produce spatially resolved measurements of the tractions exerted by single motile cells. in this study we have applied these developments to produce maps of the tractions exerted by 3t3 fibroblasts during steady locomotion. the resulting images have a spatial resolution of approximately 5 micrometers and a maximum intensity of approximately 10(2) kdyn/cm2 (10(4) pn/micrometers2). we find that the propulsive thrust for fibroblast locomotion  approximately 0.2 dyn  is imparted to the substratum within 15 micrometers of the leading edge. these observations demonstrate that the lamellipodium of the fibroblast is able to generate intense traction stress. the cell body and posterior seem to be mechanically passive structures pulled forward entirely by this action.
396,prevalence of cardiovascular disease risk factor in the chinese population: the 2007-2008 china national diabetes and metabolic disorders study.,aims cardiovascular disease (cvd) is now the most prevalent and debilitating disease affecting the chinese population. the goal of the present manuscript was to analyse cardiovascular risk factors and the prevalence of non-fatal cvds from data gathered from the 2007-2008 china national diabetes and metabolic disorders study. methods and results a nationally representative sample of 46 239 adults  20 years of age or older  was randomly recruited using a multistage stratified design method. lifestyle factors  diagnosis of cvd  stroke  diabetes  and family history of each subject were collected  and an oral glucose tolerance test or a standard meal test was performed. various non-fatal cvds were reported by the subjects. sudaan software was used to perform all weighted statistical analyses  with p < 0.05 considered statistically significant. the prevalence of coronary heart disease  stroke  and cvds was 0.74  1.07  and 1.78% in males; and 0.51  0.60  and 1.10% in females  respectively. the presence of cvds increased with age in both males and females. the prevalence of being overweight or obese  hypertension  dyslipidaemia  or hyperglycaemia was 36.67  30.09  67.43  and 26.69% in males; and 29.77  24.79  63.98  and 23.62% in females  respectively. in the total sample of 46 239 patients  the prevalence of one subject having 1  2  3  or ≥4 of the 5 defined risk factors (i.e. smoking  overweight or obese  hypertension  dyslipidaemia  or hyperglycaemia) was 31.17  27.38  17.76  and 10.19%  respectively. following adjustment for gender and age  the odds ratio of cvds for those who had 1  2  3  or ≥4 risk factors was 2.36  4.24  4.88  and 7.22  respectively  when compared with patients with no risk factors. conclusion morbidity attributed to the five defined cardiovascular risk factors was high in the chinese population  with multiple risk factors present in the same individual. therefore  reasonable prevention strategies should be designed to attenuate the rapid rise in cardiovascular morbidity.
398,involvement of s-nitrosylation of actin in inhibition of neurotransmitter release by nitric oxide,background the role of the diffusible messenger nitric oxide (no) in the regulation of pain transmission is still a debate of matter  pro-nociceptive and/or anti-nociceptive. s-nitrosylation  the reversible post-translational modification of selective cysteine residues in proteins  has emerged as an important mechanism by which no acts as a signaling molecule. the occurrence of s-nitrosylation in the spinal cord and its targets that may modulate pain transmission remain unclarified. the "biotin-switch" method and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry were employed for identifying s-nitrosylated proteins. results here we show that actin was a major protein s-nitrosylated in the spinal cord by the no donor  s-nitroso-n-acetyl-dl-penicillamine (snap). interestingly  actin was s-nitrosylated  more in the s2 fraction than in the p2 fraction of the spinal homogenate. treatment of pc12 cells with snap caused rapid s-nitrosylation of actin and inhibited dopamine release from the cells. just like cytochalasin b  which depolymerizes actin  snap decreased the amount of filamentous actin cytoskeleton just beneath the membrane. the inhibition of dopamine release was not attenuated by inhibitors of soluble guanylyl cyclase and cgmp-dependent protein kinase. conclusion the present study demonstrates that actin is a major s-nitrosylated protein in the spinal cord and suggests that no directly regulates neurotransmitter release by s-nitrosylation in addition to the well-known phosphorylation by cgmp-dependent protein kinase.
400,pleiotropy as a mechanism to stabilize cooperation,most genes affect many traits. this phenomenon  known as pleiotropy  is a major constraint on evolution because adaptive change in one trait may be prevented because it would compromise other traits affected by the same genes. here we show that pleiotropy can have an unexpected effect and benefit one of the most enigmatic of adaptations—cooperation. a spectacular act of cooperation occurs in the social amoeba dictyostelium discoideum  in which some cells die to form a stalk that holds the other cells aloft as reproductive spores. we have identified a gene  dima  in d. discoideum that has two contrasting effects. it is required to receive the signalling molecule dif-1 that causes differentiation into prestalk cells. ignoring dif-1 and not becoming prestalk should allow cells to cheat by avoiding the stalk. however  we find that in aggregations containing the wild-type cells  lack of the dima gene results in exclusion from spores. this pleiotropic linkage of stalk and spore formation limits the potential for cheating in d. discoideum because defecting on prestalk cell production results in an even greater reduction in spores. we propose that the evolution of pleiotropic links between cheating and personal costs can stabilize cooperative adaptations.
402,epigenetic switch involved in activation of pioneer factor foxa1-dependent enhancers.,transcription factors (tfs) bind specifically to discrete regions of mammalian genomes called cis-regulatory elements. among those are enhancers  which play key roles in regulation of gene expression during development and differentiation. despite the recognized central regulatory role exerted by chromatin in control of tf functions  much remains to be learned regarding the chromatin structure of enhancers and how it is established. here  we have analyzed on a genomic-scale enhancers that recruit foxa1  a pioneer transcription factor that triggers transcriptional competency of these cis-regulatory sites. importantly  we found that foxa1 binds to genomic regions showing local dna hypomethylation and that its cell-type-specific recruitment to chromatin is linked to differential dna methylation levels of its binding sites. using neural differentiation as a model  we showed that induction of foxa1 expression and its subsequent recruitment to enhancers is associated with dna demethylation. concomitantly  histone h3 lysine 4 methylation is induced at these enhancers. these epigenetic changes may both stabilize foxa1 binding and allow for subsequent recruitment of transcriptional regulatory effectors. interestingly  when cloned into reporter constructs  foxa1-dependent enhancers were able to recapitulate their cell type specificity. however  their activities were inhibited by dna methylation. hence  these enhancers are intrinsic cell-type-specific regulatory regions of which activities have to be potentiated by foxa1 through induction of an epigenetic switch that includes notably dna demethylation.
404,predicting new molecular targets for known drugs,although drugs are intended to be selective  at least some bind to several physiological targets  explaining side effects and efficacy. because many drug-target combinations exist  it would be useful to explore possible interactions computationally. here we compared 3 665 us food and drug administration (fda)-approved and investigational drugs against hundreds of targets  defining each target by its ligands. chemical similarities between drugs and ligand sets predicted thousands of unanticipated associations. thirty were tested experimentally  including the antagonism of the beta(1) receptor by the transporter inhibitor prozac  the inhibition of the 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-ht) transporter by the ion channel drug vadilex  and antagonism of the histamine h(4) receptor by the enzyme inhibitor rescriptor. overall  23 new drug-target associations were confirmed  five of which were potent (<100 nm). the physiological relevance of one  the drug n n-dimethyltryptamine (dmt) on serotonergic receptors  was confirmed in a knockout mouse. the chemical similarity approach is systematic and comprehensive  and may suggest side-effects and new indications for many drugs.
406,immobilized chemokine fields and soluble chemokine gradients cooperatively shape migration patterns of dendritic cells.,chemokines orchestrate immune cell trafficking by eliciting either directed or random migration and by activating integrins in order to induce cell adhesion. analyzing dendritic cell (dc) migration  we showed that these distinct cellular responses depended on the mode of chemokine presentation within tissues. the surface-immobilized form of the chemokine ccl21  the heparan sulfate-anchoring ligand of the cc-chemokine receptor 7 (ccr7)  caused random movement of dcs that was confined to the chemokine-presenting surface because it triggered integrin-mediated adhesion. upon direct contact with ccl21  dcs truncated the anchoring residues of ccl21  thereby releasing it from the solid phase. soluble ccl21 functionally resembles the second ccr7 ligand  ccl19  which lacks anchoring residues and forms soluble gradients. both soluble ccr7 ligands triggered chemotactic movement  but not surface adhesion. adhesive random migration and directional steering cooperate to produce dynamic but spatially restricted locomotion patterns closely resembling the cellular dynamics observed in secondary lymphoid organs.
408,enzymatically active lysosomal proteases are associated with amyloid deposits in alzheimer brain.,the formation of beta-amyloid in the brains of individuals with alzheimer disease requires the proteolytic cleavage of a membrane-associated precursor protein. the proteases that may be involved in this process have not yet been identified. cathepsins are normally intracellular proteolytic enzymes associated with lysosomes; however  when sections from alzheimer brains were stained by antisera to cathepsin d and cathepsin b  high levels of immunoreactivity were also detected in senile plaques. extracellular sites of cathepsin immunoreactivity were not seen in control brains from age-matched individuals without neurologic disease or from patients with huntington disease or parkinson disease. in situ enzyme histochemistry of cathepsin d and cathepsin b on sections of neocortex using synthetic peptides and protein substrates showed that senile plaques contained the highest levels of enzymatically active cathepsin. at the ultrastructural level  cathepsin immunoreactivity in senile plaques was localized principally to lysosomal dense bodies and lipofuscin granules  which were extracellular. similar structures were abundant in degenerating neurons of alzheimer neocortex  and cathepsin-laden neuronal perikarya in various stages of disintegration could be seen within some senile plaques. the high levels of enzymatically competent lysosomal proteases abnormally localized in senile plaques represent evidence for candidate enzymes that may mediate the proteolytic formation of amyloid. we propose that amyloid precursor protein within senile plaques is processed by lysosomal proteases principally derived from degenerating neurons. escape of cathepsins from the stringently regulated intracellular milieu provides a basis for an abnormal sequence of proteolytic cleavages of accumulating amyloid precursor protein.
410,epidemiological expansion  structural studies  and clinical challenges of new β-lactamases from gram-negative bacteria.,β-lactamase evolution presents to the infectious disease community a major challenge in the treatment of infections caused by multidrug-resistant gram-negative bacteria. because over 1 000 of these naturally occurring β-lactamases exist  attempts to correlate structure and function have become daunting. although new enzymes in the extended-spectrum β-lactamase (esbl) families are frequently identified  the older ctx-m-14 and ctx-m-15 enzymes have become the most prevalent esbls in global surveillance. carbapenemases with either serine-based or zinc-facilitated hydrolysis mechanisms are posing some of the most critical problems. most geographical regions now report kpc serine carbapenemases and the metallo-β-lactamases vim  imp  and ndm-1  even though ndm-1 was only recently identified. the rapid emergence of these newer enzymes  with multiple β-lactamases appearing in a single organism  makes the design of new β-lactamase inactivators or β-lactamase-stable β-lactams all the more difficult. combination therapy will likely be required to counteract the continuing evolution of these insidious enzymes in multidrug-resistant pathogens.
412,identification of a brainstem circuit controlling feeding,hunger  driven by negative energy balance  elicits the search for and consumption of food. while this response is in part mediated by neurons in the hypothalamus  the role of specific cell types in other brain regions is less well defined. here  we show that neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus  expressing vesicular transporters for gaba or glutamate (hereafter  drnvgat and drnvglut3 neurons)  are reciprocally activated by changes in energy balance and that modulating their activity has opposite effects on feeding-drnvgat neurons increase  whereas drnvglut3 neurons suppress  food intake. furthermore  modulation of these neurons in obese (ob/ob) mice suppresses food intake and body weight and normalizes locomotor activity. finally  using molecular profiling  we identify druggable targets in these neurons and show that local infusion of agonists for specific receptors on these neurons has potent effects on feeding. these data establish the drn as an important node controlling energy balance. paperclip.
414,swim training suppresses tumor growth in mice.,the present study was designed to determine the effects of physical training on the development of cancer induced by the injection of ehrlich tumor cells in mice. male swiss mice were subjected to a swim training protocol (5 days/wk for 6 wk  1 h at 50% of maximal capacity-trained groups) or remained sedentary in their cages (sedentary groups). the inoculation of ehrlich tumor cells was performed at the end of the fourth week  and animals were killed after 6 wk of training. heart and solid tumor weights were recorded  and tumor volumes were calculated. portions of the tumors were used for the evaluation of macrophages and neutrophil accumulation or fixed in neutral 10% buffered formalin for histological analysis. the tumor volume and weight were  respectively  approximately 270% and 280% greater in sedentary mice than in trained mice. macrophage infiltration in the tumor tissue was significantly lower in trained mice (0.65 +/- 0.16 vs. 1.78 +/- 0.43 macrophages x 10(3) in the sedentary group). moreover  neutrophil accumulation in tumors was slightly reduced after exercise training  and the amount of tumor cells was reduced in trained mice. exercise capacity was substantially increased in trained mice  as determined by a 440% increase in the exercise time at 50% of maximal capacity. in summary  swim training retarded the development of ehrlich tumors in mice  accompanied by a reduction in macrophage infiltration and neutrophil accumulation. these findings provide conceptual support for clinical observations that controlled physical activities may be a therapeutically important approach to preventing cancer progression and may improve the outcome of cancer treatment.
416,micrornas: a safeguard against turmoil?,emerging data suggest that micrornas (mirnas) are instrumental in a variety of stress responses in addition to their more recognized role in development. surprisingly  mirnas  which normally suppress expression of target transcripts  may become activators of expression during stress. this might be partially explained by new interactions of mirna/argonaute complexes with rna-binding proteins that relocate from different subcellular compartments during stress.
418,vaccines against malaria,there is no licenced vaccine against any human parasitic disease and plasmodium falciparum malaria  a major cause of infectious mortality  presents a great challenge to vaccine developers. this has led to the assessment of a wide variety of approaches to malaria vaccine design and development  assisted by the availability of a safe challenge model for small-scale efficacy testing of vaccine candidates. malaria vaccine development has been at the forefront of assessing many new vaccine technologies including novel adjuvants  vectored prime-boost regimes and the concept of community vaccination to block malaria transmission. most current vaccine candidates target a single stage of the parasite's life cycle and vaccines against the early pre-erythrocytic stages have shown most success. a protein in adjuvant vaccine  working through antibodies against sporozoites  and viral vector vaccines targeting the intracellular liver-stage parasite with cellular immunity show partial efficacy in humans  and the anti-sporozoite vaccine is currently in phase iii trials. however  a more effective malaria vaccine suitable for widespread cost-effective deployment is likely to require a multi-component vaccine targeting more than one life cycle stage. the most attractive near-term approach to develop such a product is to combine existing partially effective pre-erythrocytic vaccine candidates.
420,reduced nf1 expression confers resistance to egfr inhibition in lung cancer.,activating mutations in the egf receptor (egfr) are associated with clinical responsiveness to egfr tyrosine kinase inhibitors (tki)  such as erlotinib and gefitinib. however  resistance eventually arises  often due to a second egfr mutation  most commonly t790m. through a genome-wide sirna screen in a human lung cancer cell line and analyses of murine mutant egfr-driven lung adenocarcinomas  we found that erlotinib resistance was associated with reduced expression of neurofibromin  the ras gtpase-activating protein encoded by the nf1 gene. erlotinib failed to fully inhibit ras-erk signaling when neurofibromin levels were reduced. treatment of neurofibromin-deficient lung cancers with a map-erk kinase (mek) inhibitor restored sensitivity to erlotinib. low levels of nf1 expression were associated with primary and acquired resistance of lung adenocarcinomas to egfr tkis in patients. these findings identify a subgroup of patients with egfr-mutant lung adenocarcinoma who might benefit from combination therapy with egfr and mek inhibitors.
422,implementation of a clinical pharmacy education program in a teaching hospital: resident oriented documentation and intervention,the aim of this study was to provide a clinical pharmacy education program at masih daneshvari hospital  a university affiliated hospital  located in tehran  iran. for this purpose  the most common pharmacist involved interventions and aspects of potential fields for pharmacy students and residents education was firstly identified. clinical pharmacy interventions and drug information forms were filled during the study period  from january 2006 till january 2007. based on the results of this study  a total number of 772 interventions were conducted during the study year. drug information had the highest rate of 22.30% among all interventions  followed by dose adjustment  and therapeutic reduction or addition. the mean number of medications per patient was 8.62 ± 7.54. in conclusion  it could be said that although in our country the challenge for the pharmacy as a profession is in its initial stages compared to the developed countries  the result of this study revealed a high demand for this service among health care providers.
424,agreement between an online dietary assessment tool (myfood24) and an interviewer-administered 24-h dietary recall in british adolescents aged 11-18 years.,myfood24 is an online 24-h dietary assessment tool developed for use among british adolescents and adults. limited information is available regarding the validity of using new technology in assessing nutritional intake among adolescents. thus  a relative validation of myfood24 against a face-to-face interviewer-administered 24-h multiple-pass recall (mpr) was conducted among seventy-five british adolescents aged 11-18 years. participants were asked to complete myfood24 and an interviewer-administered mpr on the same day for 2 non-consecutive days at school. total energy intake (ei) and nutrients recorded by the two methods were compared using intraclass correlation coefficients (icc)  bland-altman plots (using between and within-individual information) and weighted κ to assess the agreement. energy  macronutrients and other reported nutrients from myfood24 demonstrated strong agreement with the interview mpr data  and icc ranged from 0·46 for na to 0·88 for ei. there was no significant bias between the two methods for ei  macronutrients and most reported nutrients. the mean difference between myfood24 and the interviewer-administered mpr for ei was -230 kj (-55 kcal) (95 % ci -490  30 kj (-117  7 kcal); p=0·4) with limits of agreement ranging between 39 % (3336 kj (-797 kcal)) lower and 34 % (2874 kj (687 kcal)) higher than the interviewer-administered mpr. there was good agreement in terms of classifying adolescents into tertiles of ei (κ w =0·64). the agreement between day 1 and day 2 was as good for myfood24 as for the interviewer-administered mpr  reflecting the reliability of myfood24. myfood24 has the potential to collect dietary data of comparable quality with that of an interviewer-administered mpr.
426,histone deacetylase 5 interacts with krüppel-like factor 2 and inhibits its transcriptional activity in endothelium.,aims vascular endothelial dysfunction and inflammation are hallmarks of atherosclerosis. krüppel-like factor 2 (klf2) is a key mediator of anti-inflammatory and anti-atherosclerotic properties of the endothelium. however  little is known of the molecular mechanisms for regulating klf2 transcriptional activation. methods and results here  we found that histone deacetylase 5 (hdac5) associates with klf2 and represses klf2 transcriptional activation. hdac5 resided with klf2 in the nuclei of human umbilical cord vein endothelial cells (huvecs). steady laminar flow attenuated the association of hdac5 with klf2 via stimulating hdac5 phosphorylation-dependent nuclear export in huvec. we also mapped the klf2-hdac5-interacting domains and found that the n-terminal region of hdac5 interacts with the c-terminal domain of klf2. chromatin immunoprecipitation and luciferase reporter assays showed that hdac5 through a direct association with klf2 suppressed klf2 transcriptional activation. hdac5 overexpression inhibited klf2-dependent endothelial nitric oxide synthesis (enos) promoter activity in cos7 cell and gene expression in both huvecs and bovine aortic endothelial cells (baecs). conversely  hdac5 silencing enhanced klf2 transcription and hence enos expression in huvec. moreover  we observed that the level of enos protein in the thoracic aorta isolated from hdac5 knockout mice was higher  whereas expression of pro-inflammatory vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 was lower  compared with those of hdac5 wild-type mice. conclusions we reveal a novel role of hdac5 in modulating the klf2 transcriptional activation and enos expression. these findings suggest that hdac5  a binding partner and modulator of klf2  could be a new therapeutic target to prevent vascular endothelial dysfunction associated with cardiovascular diseases.
428,cancer survivorship research: the challenge of recruiting adult long term cancer survivors from a cooperative clinical trials group,introduction with the growing number of adult cancer survivors  there is increasing need for information that links potential late and long term effects with specific treatment regimens. few adult cancer patients are treated on clinical trials; however  patients previously enrolled in these trials are an important source of information about treatment-related late effects. methods focusing on colorectal cancer survivors  we used the database from five phase iii randomized clinical trials from the national surgical adjuvant breast & bowel project (nsabp) to recruit and enroll long term survivors in a study of late health outcomes and quality of life. we describe the challenges to recruitment of patients more than 5 -20 years after treatment. results sixty-five nsabp treatment sites were invited to enroll patients in the study. sixty participated with the potential to recruit 2 408 patients. we received registration forms on only 976 patients (41%) of whom 744 (76%) expressed interest in participating and 708 completed interviews (95% of those expressing interest; 29% of total potential sample). there were multiple barriers to recruitment (difficulty locating patients  lack of institutional commitment  lack of patient interest). conclusions patients treated on clinical trials are an important potential source for examining the late effects of cancer treatments. retrospective recruitment has substantial limitations. in the future  mechanisms should be established for prospective long-term follow-up to identify and understand the frequency and type of late effects associated with cancer treatments. implications for cancer survivors as cancer patients are living longer  it will be important to learn from participants in clinical trials whether or not specific treatment regimens are associated with any serious late effects.
430,the world health organization adult adhd self-report scale (asrs): a short screening scale for use in the general population.,background a self-report screening scale of adult attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (adhd)  the world health organization (who) adult adhd self-report scale (asrs) was developed in conjunction with revision of the who composite international diagnostic interview (cidi). the current report presents data on concordance of the asrs and of a short-form asrs screener with blind clinical diagnoses in a community sample. method the asrs includes 18 questions about frequency of recent dsm-iv criterion a symptoms of adult adhd. the asrs screener consists of six out of these 18 questions that were selected based on stepwise logistic regression to optimize concordance with the clinical classification. asrs responses were compared to blind clinical ratings of dsm-iv adult adhd in a sample of 154 respondents who previously participated in the us national comorbidity survey replication (ncs-r)  oversampling those who reported childhood adhd and adult persistence. results each asrs symptom measure was significantly related to the comparable clinical symptom rating  but varied substantially in concordance (cohen's kappa in the range 0.16-0.81). optimal scoring to predict clinical syndrome classifications was to sum unweighted dichotomous responses across all 18 asrs questions. however  because of the wide variation in symptom-level concordance  the unweighted six-question asrs screener outperformed the unweighted 18-question asrs in sensitivity (68.7% v. 56.3%)  specificity (99.5% v. 98.3%)  total classification accuracy (97.9% v. 96.2%)  and kappa (0.76 v. 0.58). conclusions clinical calibration in larger samples might show that a weighted version of the 18-question asrs outperforms the six-question asrs screener. until that time  however  the unweighted screener should be preferred to the full asrs  both in community surveys and in clinical outreach and case-finding initiatives.
432,cerebral perfusion and stroke.,stroke is a heterogeneous syndrome caused by multiple disease mechanisms  but all result in a disruption of cerebral blood flow with subsequent tissue damage. this review covers the mechanisms responsible for regulation of the normal cerebral circulation  and how they are disrupted in disease states. a central concept in treating patients with acute ischaemic stroke is the existence of an ischaemic penumbra of potentially salvageable tissue  and the evidence for its existence in humans is reviewed.
434,landscape of genetic lesions in 944 patients with myelodysplastic syndromes,high-throughput dna sequencing significantly contributed to diagnosis and prognostication in patients with myelodysplastic syndromes (mds). we determined the biological and prognostic significance of genetic aberrations in mds. in total  944 patients with various mds subtypes were screened for known/putative mutations/deletions in 104 genes using targeted deep sequencing and array-based genomic hybridization. in total  845/944 patients (89.5%) harbored at least one mutation (median  3 per patient; range  0-12). forty-seven genes were significantly mutated with tet2  sf3b1  asxl1  srsf2  dnmt3a  and runx1 mutated in >10% of cases. many mutations were associated with higher risk groups and/or blast elevation. survival was investigated in 875 patients. by univariate analysis  25/48 genes (resulting from 47 genes tested significantly plus prpf8) affected survival (p<0.05). the status of 14 genes combined with conventional factors revealed a novel prognostic model ('model-1') separating patients into four risk groups ('low'  'intermediate'  'high'  'very high risk') with 3-year survival of 95.2  69.3  32.8  and 5.3% (p<0.001). subsequently  a 'gene-only model' ('model-2') was constructed based on 14 genes also yielding four significant risk groups (p<0.001). both models were reproducible in the validation cohort (n=175 patients; p<0.001 each). thus  large-scale genetic and molecular profiling of multiple target genes is invaluable for subclassification and prognostication in mds patients.
436,gene set enrichment analysis: a knowledge-based approach for interpreting genome-wide expression profiles.,although genomewide rna expression analysis has become a routine tool in biomedical research  extracting biological insight from such information remains a major challenge. here  we describe a powerful analytical method called gene set enrichment analysis (gsea) for interpreting gene expression data. the method derives its power by focusing on gene sets  that is  groups of genes that share common biological function  chromosomal location  or regulation. we demonstrate how gsea yields insights into several cancer-related data sets  including leukemia and lung cancer. notably  where single-gene analysis finds little similarity between two independent studies of patient survival in lung cancer  gsea reveals many biological pathways in common. the gsea method is embodied in a freely available software package  together with an initial database of 1 325 biologically defined gene sets.
438,in vitro–expanded antigen-specific regulatory t cells suppress autoimmune diabetes,the low number of cd4+ cd25+ regulatory t cells (tregs)  their anergic phenotype  and diverse antigen specificity present major challenges to harnessing this potent tolerogenic population to treat autoimmunity and transplant rejection. in this study  we describe a robust method to expand antigen-specific tregs from autoimmune-prone nonobese diabetic mice. purified cd4+ cd25+ tregs were expanded up to 200-fold in less than 2 wk in vitro using a combination of anti-cd3  anti-cd28  and interleukin 2. the expanded tregs express a classical cell surface phenotype and function both in vitro and in vivo to suppress effector t cell functions. most significantly  small numbers of antigen-specific tregs can reverse diabetes after disease onset  suggesting a novel approach to cellular immunotherapy for autoimmunity.
440,statin prophylaxis and inflammatory mediators following cardiopulmonary bypass: a systematic review,introduction induction of an inflammatory response is thought to have a significant role in the complications that follow cardiopulmonary bypass (cpb). the statin drugs are increasingly being recognized as having potent anti-inflammatory effects and hence have potential to influence an important mechanism of injury in cpb  although there is no current confirmation that this is indeed the case. our objective was to systematically review if pre-operative prophylactic statin therapy  compared with placebo or standard of care  can decrease the inflammatory response in people undergoing heart surgery with cpb. methods we performed a systematic and comprehensive literature search for all randomized controlled trials (rcts) of open heart surgery with cpb in adults or children who received prophylactic statin treatment prior to cpb  with reported outcomes which included markers of inflammation. two authors independently identified eligible studies  extracted data  and assessed study quality using standardized instruments. weighted mean difference (wmd) was the primary summary statistic with data pooled using a random effects model. descriptive analysis was used when data could not be pooled. results eight rcts were included in the review  with the number of trials for each inflammatory outcome being even more limited. pooled data demonstrated benefit with the use of statin to attenuate the post-cpb increase in interleukins 6 and 8 (il-6  il-8)  peak high sensitivity c-reactive protein (hscrp)  and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (tnf-alpha) post-cpb (wmd [95% confidence interval (ci)] -23.5 pg/ml [-36.6 to -10.5]; -23.4 pg/ml [-35.8 to -11.0]; -15.3 mg/l [ci -26.9 to -3.7]; -2.10 pg/ml [-3.83 to -0.37] respectively). very limited rct evidence suggests that prophylactic statin therapy may also decrease adhesion molecules following cpb including neutrophil cd11b and soluble p (sp)-selectin. conclusions although the rct evidence may suggest a reduction in post-cpb inflammation by statin therapy  the evidence is not definitive due to significant limitations. several of the trials were not methodologically rigorous and statin intervention was highly variable in this small number of studies. this systematic review demonstrates that there is a significant gap that exists in the current literature in regards to the potential anti-inflammatory effect of statin therapy prior to cpb.
442,tet2 is required to resolve inflammation by recruiting hdac2 to specifically repress il-6,epigenetic modifiers have fundamental roles in defining unique cellular identity through the establishment and maintenance of lineage-specific chromatin and methylation status. several dna modifications such as 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmc) are catalysed by the ten eleven translocation (tet) methylcytosine dioxygenase family members  and the roles of tet proteins in regulating chromatin architecture and gene transcription independently of dna methylation have been gradually uncovered. however  the regulation of immunity and inflammation by tet proteins independent of their role in modulating dna methylation remains largely unknown. here we show that tet2 selectively mediates active repression of interleukin-6 (il-6) transcription during inflammation resolution in innate myeloid cells  including dendritic cells and macrophages. loss of tet2 resulted in the upregulation of several inflammatory mediators  including il-6  at late phase during the response to lipopolysaccharide challenge. tet2-deficient mice were more susceptible to endotoxin shock and dextran-sulfate-sodium-induced colitis  displaying a more severe inflammatory phenotype and increased il-6 production compared to wild-type mice. iκbζ  an il-6-specific transcription factor  mediated specific targeting of tet2 to the il6 promoter  further indicating opposite regulatory roles of iκbζ at initial and resolution phases of inflammation. for the repression mechanism  independent of dna methylation and hydroxymethylation  tet2 recruited hdac2 and repressed transcription of il6 via histone deacetylation. we provide mechanistic evidence for the gene-specific transcription repression activity of tet2 via histone deacetylation and for the prevention of constant transcription activation at the chromatin level for resolving inflammation.
444,the drosophila dhr96 nuclear receptor binds cholesterol and regulates cholesterol homeostasis.,cholesterol homeostasis is required to maintain normal cellular function and avoid the deleterious effects of hypercholesterolemia. here we show that the drosophila dhr96 nuclear receptor binds cholesterol and is required for the coordinate transcriptional response of genes that are regulated by cholesterol and involved in cholesterol uptake  trafficking  and storage. dhr96 mutants die when grown on low levels of cholesterol and accumulate excess cholesterol when maintained on a high-cholesterol diet. the cholesterol accumulation phenotype can be attributed to misregulation of npc1b  an ortholog of the mammalian niemann-pick c1-like 1 gene npc1l1  which is essential for dietary cholesterol uptake. these studies define dhr96 as a central regulator of cholesterol homeostasis.
446,association between maternal serum 25-hydroxyvitamin d level and pregnancy and neonatal outcomes: systematic review and meta-analysis of observational studies.,objective to assess the effect of 25-hydroxyvitamin d (25-ohd) levels on pregnancy outcomes and birth variables. design systematic review and meta-analysis. data sources medline (1966 to august 2012)  pubmed (2008 to august 2012)  embase (1980 to august 2012)  cinahl (1981 to august 2012)  the cochrane database of systematic reviews  and the cochrane database of registered clinical trials. study selection studies reporting on the association between serum 25-ohd levels during pregnancy and the outcomes of interest (pre-eclampsia  gestational diabetes  bacterial vaginosis  caesarean section  small for gestational age infants  birth weight  birth length  and head circumference). data extraction two authors independently extracted data from original research articles  including key indicators of study quality. we pooled the most adjusted odds ratios and weighted mean differences. associations were tested in subgroups representing different patient characteristics and study quality. results 3357 studies were identified and reviewed for eligibility. 31 eligible studies were included in the final analysis. insufficient serum levels of 25-ohd were associated with gestational diabetes (pooled odds ratio 1.49  95% confidence interval 1.18 to 1.89)  pre-eclampsia (1.79  1.25 to 2.58)  and small for gestational age infants (1.85  1.52 to 2.26). pregnant women with low serum 25-ohd levels had an increased risk of bacterial vaginosis and low birthweight infants but not delivery by caesarean section. conclusion vitamin d insufficiency is associated with an increased risk of gestational diabetes  pre-eclampsia  and small for gestational age infants. pregnant women with low 25-ohd levels had an increased risk of bacterial vaginosis and lower birth weight infants  but not delivery by caesarean section.
448,in vitro differentiation of transplantable neural precursors from human embryonic stem cells,the remarkable developmental potential and replicative capacity of human embryonic stem (es) cells promise an almost unlimited supply of specific cell types for transplantation therapies. here we describe the in vitro differentiation  enrichment  and transplantation of neural precursor cells from human es cells. upon aggregation to embryoid bodies  differentiating es cells formed large numbers of neural tube–like structures in the presence of fibroblast growth factor 2 (fgf-2). neural precursors within these formations were isolated by selective enzymatic digestion and further purified on the basis of differential adhesion. following withdrawal of fgf-2  they differentiated into neurons  astrocytes  and oligodendrocytes. after transplantation into the neonatal mouse brain  human es cell–derived neural precursors were incorporated into a variety of brain regions  where they differentiated into both neurons and astrocytes. no teratoma formation was observed in the transplant recipients. these results depict human es cells as a source of transplantable neural precursors for possible nervous system repair.
450,a global role for klf1 in erythropoiesis revealed by chip-seq in primary erythroid cells.,klf1 regulates a diverse suite of genes to direct erythroid cell differentiation from bipotent progenitors. to determine the local cis-regulatory contexts and transcription factor networks in which klf1 operates  we performed klf1 chip-seq in the mouse. we found at least 945 sites in the genome of e14.5 fetal liver erythroid cells which are occupied by endogenous klf1. many of these recovered sites reside in erythroid gene promoters such as hbb-b1  but the majority are distant to any known gene. our data suggests klf1 directly regulates most aspects of terminal erythroid differentiation including production of alpha- and beta-globin protein chains  heme biosynthesis  coordination of proliferation and anti-apoptotic pathways  and construction of the red cell membrane and cytoskeleton by functioning primarily as a transcriptional activator. additionally  we suggest new mechanisms for klf1 cooperation with other transcription factors  in particular the erythroid transcription factor gata1  to maintain homeostasis in the erythroid compartment.
452,translocation of sickle cell erythrocyte micrornas into plasmodium falciparum inhibits parasite translation and contributes to malaria resistance.,erythrocytes carrying a variant hemoglobin allele (hbs)  which causes sickle cell disease and resists infection by the malaria parasite plasmodium falciparum. the molecular basis of this resistance  which has long been recognized as multifactorial  remains incompletely understood. here we show that the dysregulated microrna (mirna) composition  of either heterozygous hbas or homozygous hbss erythrocytes  contributes to resistance against p. falciparum. during the intraerythrocytic life cycle of p. falciparum  a subset of erythrocyte mirnas translocate into the parasite. two mirnas  mir-451 and let-7i  were highly enriched in hbas and hbss erythrocytes  and these mirnas  along with mir-223  negatively regulated parasite growth. surprisingly  we found that mir-451 and let-7i integrated into essential parasite messenger rnas and  via impaired ribosomal loading  resulted in translational inhibition. hence  sickle cell erythrocytes exhibit cell-intrinsic resistance to malaria in part through an atypical mirna activity  which may represent a unique host defense strategy against complex eukaryotic pathogens.
454,delayed and accelerated aging share common longevity assurance mechanisms,mutant dwarf and calorie-restricted mice benefit from healthy aging and unusually long lifespan. in contrast  mouse models for dna repair-deficient progeroid syndromes age and die prematurely. to identify mechanisms that regulate mammalian longevity  we quantified the parallels between the genome-wide liver expression profiles of mice with those two extremes of lifespan. contrary to expectation  we find significant  genome-wide expression associations between the progeroid and long-lived mice. subsequent analysis of significantly over-represented biological processes revealed suppression of the endocrine and energy pathways with increased stress responses in both delayed and premature aging. to test the relevance of these processes in natural aging  we compared the transcriptomes of liver  lung  kidney  and spleen over the entire murine adult lifespan and subsequently confirmed these findings on an independent aging cohort. the majority of genes showed similar expression changes in all four organs  indicating a systemic transcriptional response with aging. this systemic response included the same biological processes that are triggered in progeroid and long-lived mice. however  on a genome-wide scale  transcriptomes of naturally aged mice showed a strong association to progeroid but not to long-lived mice. thus  endocrine and metabolic changes are indicative of "survival" responses to genotoxic stress or starvation  whereas genome-wide associations in gene expression with natural aging are indicative of biological age  which may thus delineate pro- and anti-aging effects of treatments aimed at health-span extension.
456,once-a-day concerta methylphenidate versus three-times-daily methylphenidate in laboratory and natural settings.,objective methylphenidate (mph)  the most commonly prescribed drug for attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (adhd)  has a short half-life  which necessitates multiple daily doses. the need for multiple doses produces problems with medication administration during school and after-school hours  and therefore with compliance. previous long-acting stimulants and preparations have shown effects equivalent to twice-daily dosing of mph. this study tests the efficacy and duration of action  in natural and laboratory settings  of an extended-release mph preparation designed to last 12 hours and therefore be equivalent to 3-times-daily dosing. methods sixty-eight children with adhd  6 to 12 years old  participated in a within-subject  double-blind comparison of placebo  immediate-release (ir) mph 3 times a day (tid)  and concerta  a once-daily mph formulation. three dosing levels of medication were used: 5 mg ir mph tid/18 mg concerta once a day (qd); 10 mg ir mph tid/36 mg concerta qd; and 15 mg ir mph tid/54 mg concerta qd. all children were currently medicated with mph at enrollment  and each child's dose level was based on that child's mph dosing before the study. the doses of concerta were selected to be comparable to the daily doses of mph that each child received. to achieve the ascending rate of mph delivery determined by initial investigations to provide the necessary continuous coverage  concerta doses were 20% higher on a daily basis than a comparable tid regimen of ir mph. children received each medication condition for 7 days. the investigation was conducted in the context of a background clinical behavioral intervention in both the natural environment and the laboratory setting. parents received behavioral parent training and teachers were taught to establish a school-home daily report card (drc). a drc is a list of individual target behaviors that represent a child's most salient areas of impairment. teachers set daily goals for each child's impairment targets  and parents provided rewards at home for goal attainment. each weekday  teachers completed the drc  and it was used as a dependent measure of individualized medication response. teachers and parents also completed weekly standardized ratings of behavior and treatment effectiveness. to evaluate the time course of medication effects  children spent 12 hours in a laboratory setting on saturdays and medication effects were measured using procedures and methods adapted from our summer treatment program. measures of classroom behavior and academic productivity/accuracy were taken in a laboratory classroom setting during which children completed independent math and reading worksheets. measures of social behavior were taken in structured  small-group board game settings and unstructured recess settings. measures included behavior frequency counts  academic problems completed and accuracy  independent observations  teacher and counselor ratings  and individualized behavioral target goals. reports of adverse events  sleep quality  and appetite were collected. results on virtually all measures in all settings  both drug conditions were significantly different from placebo  and the 2 drugs were not different from each other. in children's regular school settings  both medications improved behavior as measured by teacher ratings and individualized target behaviors (the drc); these effects were seen into the evening as measured by parent ratings. in the laboratory setting  effects of concerta were equivalent to tid mph and lasted at least through 12 hours after dosing. concerta was significantly superior to tid mph on 2 parent rating scores  and when asked  more parents preferred concerta than preferred tid ir mph or placebo. side effects on children's sleep and appetite were similar for the 2 preparations. in the lab setting  both medications improved productivity and accuracy on arithmetic seatwork assignments  disruptive and on-task behavior  and classroom rule following. both medications improved children's rule following and negative behavior in small group board games  as well as in unstructured recess settings. individual target behaviors also showed significant improvement with medication across domains in the laboratory setting. children's behavior across settings deteriorated across the laboratory day  and the primary effect of medication was to prevent this deterioration as the day wore on. results support the use of background behavioral treatment in clinical trials of stimulant medication  and illustrate the utility of a measure of individualized daily target goals (ie  the drc) as an objective measure of medication response in both the laboratory and natural school settings. conclusion this investigation clearly supports the efficacy of the concerta long-acting formulation of mph for parents who desire to have medication benefits for their child throughout the day and early evening. (abstract truncated)
458,neuronal sirt1 deficiency increases insulin sensitivity in both brain and peripheral tissues.,sirt1 is a nad(+)-dependent class iii deacetylase that functions as a cellular energy sensor. in addition to its well-characterized effects in peripheral tissues  emerging evidence suggests that neuronal sirt1 activity plays a role in the central regulation of energy balance and glucose metabolism. to assess this idea  we generated sirt1 neuron-specific knockout (sinko) mice. on both standard chow and hfd  sinko mice were more insulin sensitive than sirt1(f/f) mice. thus  sinko mice had lower fasting insulin levels  improved glucose tolerance and insulin tolerance  and enhanced systemic insulin sensitivity during hyperinsulinemic euglycemic clamp studies. hypothalamic insulin sensitivity of sinko mice was also increased over controls  as assessed by hypothalamic activation of pi3k  phosphorylation of akt and foxo1 following systemic insulin injection. intracerebroventricular injection of insulin led to a greater systemic effect to improve glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity in sinko mice compared with controls. in line with the in vivo results  insulin-induced akt and foxo1 phosphorylation were potentiated by inhibition of sirt1 in a cultured hypothalamic cell line. mechanistically  this effect was traced to a reduced effect of sirt1 to directly deacetylate and repress irs-1 function. the enhanced central insulin signaling in sinko mice was accompanied by increased insulin receptor signal transduction in liver  muscle  and adipose tissue. in summary  we conclude that neuronal sirt1 negatively regulates hypothalamic insulin signaling  leading to systemic insulin resistance. interventions that reduce neuronal sirt1 activity have the potential to improve systemic insulin action and limit weight gain on an obesigenic diet.
460,gender-dependent differences in outcome after the treatment of infection in hospitalized patients.,context while it is established that management strategies and outcomes differ by gender for many diseases  its effect on infection has not been adequately studied. objective to investigate the role of gender among hospitalized patients treated for infection. design observational cohort study conducted during a 26-month period from december 1996 through january 1999. setting university-affiliated hospital. participants a total of 892 patients in the surgical units of the hospital with 1470 consecutive infectious episodes (782 in men and 688 in women). main outcome measures mortality during hospitalization by gender for infection episodes overall and for specific infectious sites  including lung  peritoneum  bloodstream  catheter  urine  surgical site  and skin/soft tissue. results among all infections  there was no significant difference in mortality based on gender (men  11.1% vs women  14.2%; p = .07). after logistic regression analysis  factors independently associated with mortality included higher apache (acute physiology and chronic health evaluation) ii score  older age  malignancy  blood transfusion  and diagnosis of infection more than 7 days after admission  but not gender (female odds ratio [or] for death  1.32; 95% confidence interval [ci]  0.90-1.94; p = .16). mortality was higher in women for lung (men  18% vs women  34%; p = .002) and soft tissue (men  2% vs women  10%; p < or = .05) infection; for other infectious sites  mortality did not differ by gender. factors associated with mortality due to pneumonia by logistic regression included higher apache ii score  malignancy  diabetes mellitus  diagnosis of infection more than 7 days after admission  older age  transplantation  and female gender (or for death  2.25; 95% ci  1.17-4.32; p = .02). conclusions although gender may not be predictive of mortality among all infections  women appear to be at increased risk for death from hospital-acquired pneumonia  even after controlling for other comorbidities.
462,cpg island methylation in premalignant stages of gastric carcinoma.,there are limited reports on methylation analysis of the premalignant lesions of gastric carcinoma thus far. this is despite the fact that gastric carcinoma is one of the tumors with a high frequency of cpg island hypermethylation. to determine the frequency and timing of hypermethylation during multistep gastric carcinogenesis  non-neoplastic gastric mucosa (n = 118)  adenomas (n = 61)  and carcinomas (n = 64) were analyzed for their p16  human mut l homologue 1 (hmlh1)  death-associated protein (dap)-kinase  thromobospondin-1 (thbs1)  and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 3 (timp-3) methylation status using methylation-specific pcr. three different classes of methylation behaviors were found in the five tested genes. dap-kinase was methylated at a similar frequency in all four stages  whereas hmlh1 and p16 were methylated in cancer samples (20.3% and 42.2%  respectively) more frequently than in intestinal metaplasia (6.3% and 2.1%  respectively) or adenomas (9.8% and 11.5%  respectively). however  hmlh1 and p16 were not methylated in chronic gastritis. thbs-1 and timp-3 were methylated in all stages but showed a marked increase in hypermethylation frequency from chronic gastritis (10.1% and 14.5%  respectively) to intestinal metaplasia (34.7% and 36.7%  respectively; p < 0.05) and from adenomas (28.3% and 26.7%  respectively) to carcinomas (48.4% and 57.4%  respectively: p < 0.05). the hmlh1  thbs1  and timp-3 hypermethylation frequencies were similar in both intestinal metaplasia and adenomas  but the p16 hypermethylation frequency tended to be higher in adenomas (11.5%) than in intestinal metaplasia (2.1%; p = 0.073). the average number of methylated genes was 0.6  1.1  1.1  and 2.0 per five genes per sample in chronic gastritis  intestinal metaplasia  adenomas  and carcinomas  respectively. this shows a marked increase in methylated genes from non-metaplastic mucosa to intestinal metaplasia (p = 0.001) as well as from premalignant lesions to carcinomas (p = 0.002). these results suggest that cpg island hypermethylation occur early in multistep gastric carcinogenesis and tend to accumulate along the multistep carcinogenesis.
464,invariant natural killer t cells: bridging innate and adaptive immunity,cells of the innate immune system interact with pathogens via conserved pattern-recognition receptors  whereas cells of the adaptive immune system recognize pathogens through diverse  antigen-specific receptors that are generated by somatic dna rearrangement. invariant natural killer t (inkt) cells are a subset of lymphocytes that bridge the innate and adaptive immune systems. although inkt cells express t cell receptors that are generated by somatic dna rearrangement  these receptors are semi-invariant and interact with a limited set of lipid and glycolipid antigens  thus resembling the pattern-recognition receptors of the innate immune system. functionally  inkt cells most closely resemble cells of the innate immune system  as they rapidly elicit their effector functions following activation  and fail to develop immunological memory. inkt cells can become activated in response to a variety of stimuli and participate in the regulation of various immune responses. activated inkt cells produce several cytokines with the capacity to jump-start and modulate an adaptive immune response. a variety of glycolipid antigens that can differentially elicit distinct effector functions in inkt cells have been identified. these reagents have been employed to test the hypothesis that inkt cells can be harnessed for therapeutic purposes in human diseases. here  we review the innate-like properties and functions of inkt cells and discuss their interactions with other cell types of the immune system.
466,manslaughter by fake artesunate in asia—will africa be next?,falciparum malaria kills  and it particularly kills the rural poor. artemisinin derivatives  such as artesunate  are a vital component of plasmodium falciparum malaria treatment and control in the face of globally increasing antimalarial drug resistance. since 1998 a worsening epidemic of sophisticated counterfeit “artesunate” tablets (containing no artesunate) has plagued mainland southeast asia (see figure s1). in some countries  most of the available artesunate is fake [ 1–5]. artemisinin derivatives are remarkably rapid in their antimalarial effects  and they are very well tolerated. so where these medicines are available  they are sought after. but as they are relatively expensive  a demand is created for cheaper versions amongst the poorest and most vulnerable people  upon whom the counterfeiters have preyed–with fatal results.
468,a nuclear argonaute promotes multi-generational epigenetic inheritance and germline immortality,epigenetic information is frequently erased near the start of each new generation. in some cases  however  epigenetic information can be transmitted from parent to progeny (multigenerational epigenetic inheritance). a particularly notable example of this type of epigenetic inheritance is double-stranded rna-mediated gene silencing in caenorhabditis elegans. this rna-mediated interference (rnai) can be inherited for more than five generations. to understand this process  here we conduct a genetic screen for nematodes defective in transmitting rnai silencing signals to future generations. this screen identified the heritable rnai defective 1 (hrde-1) gene. hrde-1 encodes an argonaute protein that associates with small interfering rnas in the germ cells of progeny of animals exposed to double-stranded rna. in the nuclei of these germ cells  hrde-1 engages the nuclear rnai defective pathway to direct the trimethylation of histone h3 at lys 9 (h3k9me3) at rnai-targeted genomic loci and promote rnai inheritance. under normal growth conditions  hrde-1 associates with endogenously expressed short interfering rnas  which direct nuclear gene silencing in germ cells. in hrde-1- or nuclear rnai-deficient animals  germline silencing is lost over generational time. concurrently  these animals exhibit steadily worsening defects in gamete formation and function that ultimately lead to sterility. these results establish that the argonaute protein hrde-1 directs gene-silencing events in germ-cell nuclei that drive multigenerational rnai inheritance and promote immortality of the germ-cell lineage. we propose that c. elegans use the rnai inheritance machinery to transmit epigenetic information  accrued by past generations  into future generations to regulate important biological processes.
470,human epidermal stem cell function is regulated by circadian oscillations.,human skin copes with harmful environmental factors that are circadian in nature  yet how circadian rhythms modulate the function of human epidermal stem cells is mostly unknown. here we show that in human epidermal stem cells and their differentiated counterparts  core clock genes peak in a successive and phased manner  establishing distinct temporal intervals during the 24 hr day period. each of these successive clock waves is associated with a peak in the expression of subsets of transcripts that temporally segregate the predisposition of epidermal stem cells to respond to cues that regulate their proliferation or differentiation  such as tgfβ and calcium. accordingly  circadian arrhythmia profoundly affects stem cell function in culture and in vivo. we hypothesize that this intricate mechanism ensures homeostasis by providing epidermal stem cells with environmentally relevant temporal functional cues during the course of the day and that its perturbation may contribute to aging and carcinogenesis.
472,hyaluronan impairs vascular function and drug delivery in a mouse model of pancreatic cancer,objective pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (pda) is characterised by stromal desmoplasia and vascular dysfunction  which critically impair drug delivery. this study examines the role of an abundant extracellular matrix component  the megadalton glycosaminoglycan hyaluronan (ha)  as a novel therapeutic target in pda. methods using a genetically engineered mouse model of pda  the authors enzymatically depleted ha by a clinically formulated pegylated human recombinant ph20 hyaluronidase (pegph20) and examined tumour perfusion  vascular permeability and drug delivery. the preclinical utility of pegph20 in combination with gemcitabine was assessed by short-term and survival studies. results pegph20 rapidly and sustainably depleted ha  inducing the re-expansion of pda blood vessels and increasing the intratumoral delivery of two chemotherapeutic agents  doxorubicin and gemcitabine. moreover  pegph20 triggered fenestrations and interendothelial junctional gaps in pda tumour endothelia and promoted a tumour-specific increase in macromolecular permeability. finally  combination therapy with pegph20 and gemcitabine led to inhibition of pda tumour growth and prolonged survival over gemcitabine monotherapy  suggesting immediate clinical utility. conclusions the authors demonstrate that ha impedes the intratumoral vasculature in pda and propose that its enzymatic depletion be explored as a means to improve drug delivery and response in patients with pancreatic cancer.
474,relationship between activity levels  aerobic fitness  and body fat in 8- to 10-yr-old children.,the relationships between children's activity  aerobic fitness  and fatness are unclear. indirect estimates of activity  e.g.  heart rate (hr) and recall  may mask any associations. the purpose of this study was to assess these relationships by using the tritrac-r3d  a pedometer  and heart rate. thirty-four children  ages 8-10 yr  participated in the study. the tritrac and pedometer were worn for up to 6 days. hr was measured for 1 day. activity measured by tritrac or pedometer correlated positively to fitness in the whole group (tritrac  r = 0.66; pedometer  r = 0.59; p < 0.01) and in boys and girls separately (p < 0.05) and correlated negatively to fatness in the whole group (r = -0.42  p < 0.05). in contrast  hr did not correlate significantly to fitness  and hr of >139 beats/min correlated positively to fatness in girls (r = 0.64  p < 0.05). this suggests that hr is misleading as a measure of activity. this study supports a positive relationship between activity and fitness and suggests a negative relationship between fatness and activity.
476,inhibition of hdm2 and activation of p53 by ribosomal protein l23.,the importance of coordinating cell growth with proliferation has been recognized for a long time. the molecular basis of this relationship  however  is poorly understood. here we show that the ribosomal protein l23 interacts with hdm2. the interaction involves the central acidic domain of hdm2 and an n-terminal domain of l23. l23 and l11  another hdm2-interacting ribosomal protein  can simultaneously yet distinctly interact with hdm2 together to form a ternary complex. we show that  when overexpressed  l23 inhibits hdm2-induced p53 polyubiquitination and degradation and causes a p53-dependent cell cycle arrest. on the other hand  knocking down l23 causes nucleolar stress and triggers translocation of b23 from the nucleolus to the nucleoplasm  leading to stabilization and activation of p53. our data suggest that cells may maintain a steady-state level of l23 during normal growth; alternating the levels of l23 in response to changing growth conditions could impinge on the hdm2-p53 pathway by interrupting the integrity of the nucleolus.
478,vascular endothelial cadherin controls vegfr-2 internalization and signaling from intracellular compartments,receptor endocytosis is a fundamental step in controlling the magnitude  duration  and nature of cell signaling events. confluent endothelial cells are contact inhibited in their growth and respond poorly to the proliferative signals of vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf). in a previous study  we found that the association of vascular endothelial cadherin (vec) with vegf receptor (vegfr) type 2 contributes to density-dependent growth inhibition (lampugnani  g.m.  a. zanetti  m. corada  t. takahashi  g. balconi  f. breviario  f. orsenigo  a. cattelino  r. kemler  t.o. daniel  and e. dejana. 2003. j. cell biol. 161:793–804). in the present study  we describe the mechanism through which vec reduces vegfr-2 signaling. we found that vegf induces the clathrin-dependent internalization of vegfr-2. when vec is absent or not engaged at junctions  vegfr-2 is internalized more rapidly and remains in endosomal compartments for a longer time. internalization does not terminate its signaling; instead  the internalized receptor is phosphorylated  codistributes with active phospholipase c–γ  and activates p44/42 mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphorylation and cell proliferation. inhibition of vegfr-2 internalization reestablishes the contact inhibition of cell growth  whereas silencing the junction-associated density-enhanced phosphatase-1/cd148 phosphatase restores vegfr-2 internalization and signaling. thus  vec limits cell proliferation by retaining vegfr-2 at the membrane and preventing its internalization into signaling compartments.
480,glycolytic oligodendrocytes maintain myelin and long-term axonal integrity,oligodendrocytes  the myelin-forming glial cells of the central nervous system  maintain long-term axonal integrity. however  the underlying support mechanisms are not understood. here we identify a metabolic component of axon–glia interactions by generating conditional cox10 (protoheme ix farnesyltransferase) mutant mice  in which oligodendrocytes and schwann cells fail to assemble stable mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase (cox  also known as mitochondrial complex iv). in the peripheral nervous system  cox10 conditional mutants exhibit severe neuropathy with dysmyelination  abnormal remak bundles  muscle atrophy and paralysis. notably  perturbing mitochondrial respiration did not cause glial cell death. in the adult central nervous system  we found no signs of demyelination  axonal degeneration or secondary inflammation. unlike cultured oligodendrocytes  which are sensitive to cox inhibitors  post-myelination oligodendrocytes survive well in the absence of cox activity. more importantly  by in vivo magnetic resonance spectroscopy  brain lactate concentrations in mutants were increased compared with controls  but were detectable only in mice exposed to volatile anaesthetics. this indicates that aerobic glycolysis products derived from oligodendrocytes are rapidly metabolized within white matter tracts. because myelinated axons can use lactate when energy-deprived  our findings suggest a model in which axon–glia metabolic coupling serves a physiological function.
482,the composition of the gut microbiota throughout life  with an emphasis on early life,the intestinal microbiota has become a relevant aspect of human health. microbial colonization runs in parallel with immune system maturation and plays a role in intestinal physiology and regulation. increasing evidence on early microbial contact suggest that human intestinal microbiota is seeded before birth. maternal microbiota forms the first microbial inoculum  and from birth  the microbial diversity increases and converges toward an adult-like microbiota by the end of the first 3-5 years of life. perinatal factors such as mode of delivery  diet  genetics  and intestinal mucin glycosylation all contribute to influence microbial colonization. once established  the composition of the gut microbiota is relatively stable throughout adult life  but can be altered as a result of bacterial infections  antibiotic treatment  lifestyle  surgical  and a long-term change in diet. shifts in this complex microbial system have been reported to increase the risk of disease. therefore  an adequate establishment of microbiota and its maintenance throughout life would reduce the risk of disease in early and late life. this review discusses recent studies on the early colonization and factors influencing this process which impact on health.
484,somatic coding mutations in human induced pluripotent stem cells,defined transcription factors can induce epigenetic reprogramming of adult mammalian cells into induced pluripotent stem cells. although dna factors are integrated during some reprogramming methods  it is unknown whether the genome remains unchanged at the single nucleotide level. here we show that 22 human induced pluripotent stem (hips) cell lines reprogrammed using five different methods each contained an average of five protein-coding point mutations in the regions sampled (an estimated six protein-coding point mutations per exome). the majority of these mutations were non-synonymous  nonsense or splice variants  and were enriched in genes mutated or having causative effects in cancers. at least half of these reprogramming-associated mutations pre-existed in fibroblast progenitors at low frequencies  whereas the rest occurred during or after reprogramming. thus  hips cells acquire genetic modifications in addition to epigenetic modifications. extensive genetic screening should become a standard procedure to ensure hips cell safety before clinical use.
486,sudden infant death syndrome.,despite declines in prevalence during the past two decades  sudden infant death syndrome (sids) continues to be the leading cause of death for infants aged between 1 month and 1 year in developed countries. behavioural risk factors identified in epidemiological studies include prone and side positions for infant sleep  smoke exposure  soft bedding and sleep surfaces  and overheating. evidence also suggests that pacifier use at sleep time and room sharing without bed sharing are associated with decreased risk of sids. although the cause of sids is unknown  immature cardiorespiratory autonomic control and failure of arousal responsiveness from sleep are important factors. gene polymorphisms relating to serotonin transport and autonomic nervous system development might make affected infants more vulnerable to sids. campaigns for risk reduction have helped to reduce sids incidence by 50-90%. however  to reduce the incidence even further  greater strides must be made in reducing prenatal smoke exposure and implementing other recommended infant care practices. continued research is needed to identify the pathophysiological basis of sids.
488,conformational changes during pore formation by the perforin-related protein pleurotolysin,membrane attack complex/perforin-like (macpf) proteins comprise the largest superfamily of pore-forming proteins  playing crucial roles in immunity and pathogenesis. soluble monomers assemble into large transmembrane pores via conformational transitions that remain to be structurally and mechanistically characterised. here we present an 11 å resolution cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-em) structure of the two-part  fungal toxin pleurotolysin (ply)  together with crystal structures of both components (the lipid binding plya protein and the pore-forming macpf component plyb). these data reveal a 13-fold pore 80 å in diameter and 100 å in height  with each subunit comprised of a plyb molecule atop a membrane bound dimer of plya. the resolution of the em map  together with biophysical and computational experiments  allowed confident assignment of subdomains in a macpf pore assembly. the major conformational changes in plyb are a ∼70° opening of the bent and distorted central β-sheet of the macpf domain  accompanied by extrusion and refolding of two α-helical regions into transmembrane β-hairpins (tmh1 and tmh2). we determined the structures of three different disulphide bond-trapped prepore intermediates. analysis of these data by molecular modelling and flexible fitting allows us to generate a potential trajectory of β-sheet unbending. the results suggest that macpf conformational change is triggered through disruption of the interface between a conserved helix-turn-helix motif and the top of tmh2. following their release we propose that the transmembrane regions assemble into β-hairpins via top down zippering of backbone hydrogen bonds to form the membrane-inserted β-barrel. the intermediate structures of the macpf domain during refolding into the β-barrel pore establish a structural paradigm for the transition from soluble monomer to pore  which may be conserved across the whole superfamily. the tmh2 region is critical for the release of both tmh clusters  suggesting why this region is targeted by endogenous inhibitors of macpf function.
490,the cytidine deaminase cem15 induces hypermutation in newly synthesized hiv-1 dna,high mutation frequency during reverse transcription has a principal role in the genetic variation of primate lentiviral populations. it is the main driving force for the generation of drug resistance and the escape from immune surveillance. g to a hypermutation is one of the characteristics of primate lentiviruses  as well as other retroviruses  during replication in vivo and in cell culture. the molecular mechanisms of this process  however  remain to be clarified. here  we demonstrate that cem15 (also known as apolipoprotein b mrna editing enzyme  catalytic polypeptide-like 3g; apobec3g)  an endogenous inhibitor of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (hiv-1) replication  is a cytidine deaminase and is able to induce g to a hypermutation in newly synthesized viral dna. this effect can be counteracted by the hiv-1 virion infectivity factor (vif). it seems that this viral dna mutator is a viral defence mechanism in host cells that may induce either lethal hypermutation or instability of the incoming nascent viral reverse transcripts  which could account for the vif-defective phenotype. importantly  the accumulation of cem15-mediated non-lethal hypermutation in the replicating viral genome could potently contribute to the genetic variation of primate lentiviral populations.
492,children's estimates of food portion size: the development and evaluation of three portion size assessment tools for use with children.,a number of methods have been developed to assist subjects in providing an estimate of portion size but their application in improving portion size estimation by children has not been investigated systematically. the aim was to develop portion size assessment tools for use with children and to assess the accuracy of children's estimates of portion size using the tools. the tools were food photographs  food models and an interactive portion size assessment system (ipsas). children (n 201)  aged 4-16 years  were supplied with known quantities of food to eat  in school. food leftovers were weighed. children estimated the amount of each food using each tool  24 h after consuming the food. the age-specific portion sizes represented were based on portion sizes consumed by children in a national survey. significant differences were found between the accuracy of estimates using the three tools. children of all ages performed well using the ipsas and food photographs. the accuracy and precision of estimates made using the food models were poor. for all tools  estimates of the amount of food served were more accurate than estimates of the amount consumed. issues relating to reporting of foods left over which impact on estimates of the amounts of foods actually consumed require further study. the ipsas has shown potential for assessment of dietary intake with children. before practical application in assessment of dietary intake of children the tool would need to be expanded to cover a wider range of foods and to be validated in a 'real-life' situation.
494,american society of clinical oncology policy statement: the role of the oncologist in cancer prevention and risk assessment.,oncologists have a critical opportunity to utilize risk assessment and cancer prevention strategies to interrupt the initiation or progression of cancer in cancer survivors and individuals at high risk of developing cancer. expanding knowledge about the natural history and prognosis of cancers positions oncologists to advise patients regarding the risk of second malignancies and treatment-related cancers. in addition  as recognized experts in the full spectrum of cancer care  oncologists are afforded opportunities for involvement in community-based cancer prevention activities. although oncologists are currently providing many cancer prevention and risk assessment services to their patients  economic barriers exist  including inadequate or lack of insurance  that may compromise uniform patient access to these services. additionally  insufficient reimbursement for existing and developing interventions may discourage patient access to these services. the american society of clinical oncology (asco)  the medical society representing cancer specialists involved in patient care and clinical research  is committed to supporting oncologists in their wide-ranging involvement in cancer prevention. this statement on risk assessment and prevention counseling  although not intended to be a comprehensive overview of cancer prevention describes the current role of oncologists in risk assessment and prevention; provides examples of risk assessment and prevention activities that should be offered by oncologists; identifies potential opportunities for coordination between oncologists and primary care physicians in prevention education and coordination of care for cancer survivors; describes asco's involvement in education and training of oncologists regarding prevention; and proposes improvement in the payment environment to encourage patient access to these services.
496,formation of a thymus from rat es cells in xenogeneic nude mouse↔rat es chimeras.,various conditions for differentiating embryonic stem (es) cells or induced pluripotent stem (ips) cells into specific kinds of cell lines are under intensive investigation. however  the production of a functional organ with a three-dimensional structure from es or ips cells is difficult to achieve in vitro. in the present paper  we describe the establishment of a green fluorescent protein-expressing rat es cell line and production of mouse↔rat es chimera by injecting rat es cells into mouse blastocysts. the rat es cells contributed to various organs in the chimera  including germ cells. when we injected es cells into blastocysts of nu/nu mice lacking a thymus  the resultant chimeras produced thymus derived from rat es cells in their bodies. the chimeric animals may provide a method for the derivation of various organs from es or ips cells.
498,cyanidin-3-rutinoside  a natural polyphenol antioxidant  selectively kills leukemic cells by induction of oxidative stress.,anthocyanins are a group of naturally occurring phenolic compounds widely available in fruits and vegetables in human diets. they have broad biological activities including anti-mutagenesis and anticarcinogenesis  which are generally attributed to their antioxidant activities. we studied the effects and the mechanisms of the most common type of anthocyanins  cyanidin-3-rutinoside  in several leukemia and lymphoma cell lines. we found that cyanidin-3-rutinoside extracted and purified from the black raspberry cultivar jewel induced apoptosis in hl-60 cells in a dose- and time-dependent manner. paradoxically  this compound induced the accumulation of peroxides  which are involved in the induction of apoptosis in hl-60 cells. in addition  cyanidin-3-rutinoside treatment resulted in reactive oxygen species (ros)-dependent activation of p38 mapk and jnk  which contributed to cell death by activating the mitochondrial pathway mediated by bim. down-regulation of bim or overexpression of bcl-2 or bcl-x(l) considerably blocked apoptosis. notably  cyanidin-3-rutinoside treatment did not lead to increased ros accumulation in normal human peripheral blood mononuclear cells and had no cytotoxic effects on these cells. these results indicate that cyanidin-3-rutinoside has the potential to be used in leukemia therapy with the advantages of being widely available and selective against tumors.
500,hematopoietic stem cell quiescence promotes error-prone dna repair and mutagenesis.,most adult stem cells  including hematopoietic stem cells (hscs)  are maintained in a quiescent or resting state in vivo. quiescence is widely considered to be an essential protective mechanism for stem cells that minimizes endogenous stress caused by cellular respiration and dna replication. we demonstrate that hsc quiescence can also have detrimental effects. we found that hscs have unique cell-intrinsic mechanisms ensuring their survival in response to ionizing irradiation (ir)  which include enhanced prosurvival gene expression and strong activation of p53-mediated dna damage response. we show that quiescent and proliferating hscs are equally radioprotected but use different types of dna repair mechanisms. we describe how nonhomologous end joining (nhej)-mediated dna repair in quiescent hscs is associated with acquisition of genomic rearrangements  which can persist in vivo and contribute to hematopoietic abnormalities. our results demonstrate that quiescence is a double-edged sword that renders hscs intrinsically vulnerable to mutagenesis following dna damage.
502,pseudo-seq: genome-wide detection of pseudouridine modifications in rna.,rna molecules contain a variety of chemically diverse  posttranscriptionally modified bases. the most abundant modified base found in cellular rnas  pseudouridine (ψ)  has recently been mapped to hundreds of sites in mrnas  many of which are dynamically regulated. though the pseudouridine landscape has been determined in only a few cell types and growth conditions  the enzymes responsible for mrna pseudouridylation are universally conserved  suggesting many novel pseudouridylated sites remain to be discovered. here  we present pseudo-seq  a technique that allows the identification of sites of pseudouridylation genome-wide with single-nucleotide resolution. in this chapter  we provide a detailed description of pseudo-seq. we include protocols for rna isolation from saccharomyces cerevisiae  pseudo-seq library preparation  and data analysis  including descriptions of processing and mapping of sequencing reads  computational identification of sites of pseudouridylation  and assignment of sites to specific pseudouridine synthases. the approach presented here is readily adaptable to any cell or tissue type from which high-quality mrna can be isolated. identification of novel pseudouridylation sites is an important first step in elucidating the regulation and functions of these modifications.
504,microtubule-associated histone deacetylase 6 supports the calcium store sensor stim1 in mediating malignant cell behaviors.,stromal-interaction molecule 1 (stim1) is an endoplasmic reticulum ca(2+) storage sensor that promotes cell growth  migration  and angiogenesis in breast and cervical cancers. here  we report that the microtubule-associated histone deacetylase 6 (hdac6) differentially regulates activation of stim1-mediated store-operated ca(2+) entry (soce) between cervical cancer cells and normal cervical epithelial cells. confocal microscopy of living cells indicated that microtubule integrity was necessary for stim1 trafficking to the plasma membrane and interaction with orai1  an essential pore subunit of soce. cancer cells overexpressed both stim1 and orai1 compared with normal cervical epithelial cells. hdac6 upregulation in cancer cells was accompanied by hypoacetylated α-tubulin. tubastatin-a  a specific hdac6 inhibitor  inhibited stim1 translocation to plasma membrane and blocked soce activation in cancer cells but not normal epithelial cells. genetic or pharmacologic inhibition of hdac6 blocked stim1 membrane trafficking and downstream ca(2+) influx  as evidenced by total internal reflection fluorescent images and intracellular ca(2+) determination. in contrast  hdac6 inhibition did not affect interactions between stim1 and the microtubule plus end-binding protein eb1. analysis of surgical specimens confirmed that most cervical cancer tissues overexpressed stim1 and orai1  accompanied by hypoacetylated α-tubulin. together  our results identify hdac6 as a candidate target to disrupt stim1-mediated soce as a general strategy to block malignant cell behavior.
506,rare and common variants: twenty arguments,genome-wide association studies have greatly improved our understanding of the genetic basis of disease risk. the fact that they tend not to identify more than a fraction of the specific causal loci has led to divergence of opinion over whether most of the variance is hidden as numerous rare variants of large effect or as common variants of very small effect. here i review 20 arguments for and against each of these models of the genetic basis of complex traits and conclude that both classes of effect can be readily reconciled.
508,blm helicase facilitates telomere replication during leading strand synthesis of telomeres,based on its in vitro unwinding activity on g-quadruplex (g4) dna  the bloom syndrome-associated helicase blm is proposed to participate in telomere replication by aiding fork progression through g-rich telomeric dna. single molecule analysis of replicated dna (smard) was used to determine the contribution of blm helicase to telomere replication. in blm-deficient cells  replication forks initiating from origins within the telomere  which copy the g-rich strand by leading strand synthesis  moved slower through the telomere compared with the adjacent subtelomere. fork progression through the telomere was further slowed in the presence of a g4 stabilizer. using a g4-specific antibody  we found that deficiency of blm  or another g4-unwinding helicase  the werner syndrome-associated helicase wrn  resulted in increased g4 structures in cells. importantly  deficiency of either helicase led to greater increases in g4 dna detected in the telomere compared with g4 seen genome-wide. collectively  our findings are consistent with blm helicase facilitating telomere replication by resolving g4 structures formed during copying of the g-rich strand by leading strand synthesis.
510,protective effects of exercise and phosphoinositide 3-kinase(p110alpha) signaling in dilated and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.,physical activity protects against cardiovascular disease  and physiological cardiac hypertrophy associated with regular exercise is usually beneficial  in marked contrast to pathological hypertrophy associated with disease. the p110alpha isoform of phosphoinositide 3-kinase (pi3k) plays a critical role in the induction of exercise-induced hypertrophy. whether it or other genes activated in the athlete's heart might have an impact on cardiac function and survival in a setting of heart failure is unknown. to examine whether progressive exercise training and pi3k(p110alpha) activity affect survival and/or cardiac function in two models of heart disease  we subjected a transgenic mouse model of dilated cardiomyopathy (dcm) to swim training  genetically crossed cardiac-specific transgenic mice with increased or decreased pi3k(p110alpha) activity to the dcm model  and subjected pi3k(p110alpha) transgenics to acute pressure overload (ascending aortic constriction). life-span  cardiac function  and molecular markers of pathological hypertrophy were examined. exercise training and increased cardiac pi3k(p110alpha) activity prolonged survival in the dcm model by 15-20%. in contrast  reduced pi3k(p110alpha) activity drastically shortened lifespan by approximately 50%. increased pi3k(p110alpha) activity had a favorable effect on cardiac function and fibrosis in the pressure-overload model and attenuated pathological growth. pi3k(p110alpha) signaling negatively regulated g protein-coupled receptor stimulated extracellular responsive kinase and akt (via pi3k  p110gamma) activation in isolated cardiomyocytes. these findings suggest that exercise and enhanced pi3k(p110alpha) activity delay or prevent progression of heart disease  and that supraphysiologic activity can be beneficial. identification of genes important for hypertrophy in the athlete's heart could offer new strategies for treating heart failure.
512,efficient mitochondrial genome editing by crispr/cas9,the clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (crispr)/cas9 system has been widely used for nuclear dna editing to generate mutations or correct specific disease alleles. despite its flexible application  it has not been determined if crispr/cas9  originally identified as a bacterial defense system against virus  can be targeted to mitochondria for mtdna editing. here  we show that regular flag-cas9 can localize to mitochondria to edit mitochondrial dna with sgrnas targeting specific loci of the mitochondrial genome. expression of flag-cas9 together with grna targeting cox1 and cox3 leads to cleavage of the specific mtdna loci. in addition  we observed disruption of mitochondrial protein homeostasis following mtdna truncation or cleavage by crispr/cas9. to overcome nonspecific distribution of flag-cas9  we also created a mitochondria-targeted cas9 (mitocas9). this new version of cas9 localizes only to mitochondria; together with expression of grna targeting mtdna  there is specific cleavage of mtdna. mitocas9-induced reduction of mtdna and its transcription leads to mitochondrial membrane potential disruption and cell growth inhibition. this mitocas9 could be applied to edit mtdna together with grna expression vectors without affecting genomic dna. in this brief study  we demonstrate that mtdna editing is possible using crispr/cas9. moreover  our development of mitocas9 with specific localization to the mitochondria should facilitate its application for mitochondrial genome editing.
514,exercise and respiratory training improve exercise capacity and quality of life in patients with severe chronic pulmonary hypertension.,background pulmonary hypertension (ph) is associated with restricted physical capacity  limited quality of life  and a poor prognosis because of right heart failure. the present study is the first prospective randomized study to evaluate the effects of exercise and respiratory training in patients with severe symptomatic ph. methods and results thirty patients with ph (21 women; mean age  50+/-13 years; mean pulmonary artery pressure  50+/-15 mm hg; mean world health organization [who] class  2.9+/-0.5; pulmonary arterial hypertension  n=23; chronic thromboembolic ph  n=7) on stable disease-targeted medication were randomly assigned to a control (n=15) and a primary training (n=15) group. medication remained unchanged during the study period. primary end points were the changes from baseline to week 15 in the distance walked in 6 minutes and in scores of the short form health survey quality-of-life questionnaire. changes in who functional class  borg scale  and parameters of echocardiography and gas exchange also were assessed. at week 15  patients in the primary and secondary training groups had an improved 6-minute walking distance; the mean difference between the control and the primary training group was 111 m (95% confidence interval  65 to 139 m; p<0.001). exercise training was well tolerated and improved scores of quality of life  who functional class  peak oxygen consumption  oxygen consumption at the anaerobic threshold  and achieved workload. systolic pulmonary artery pressure values at rest did not change significantly after 15 weeks of exercise and respiratory training (from 61+/-18 to 54+/-18 mm hg) within the training group. conclusions this study indicates that respiratory and physical training could be a promising adjunct to medical treatment in severe ph. the effects add to the beneficial results of modern medical treatment.
516,effects of electro-acupuncture therapy on post-stroke depression in patients with different degrees of motor function impairments: a pilot study,[purpose] the present study examined whether electro-acupuncture therapy reduces post-stroke depression (psd) and whether motor function impairments interact with the effects of the therapy. [subjects] twenty-eight psd patients were assessed and assigned to either a good or poor motor function group depending on their motor grade. [methods] the beck depression inventory (bdi)  hamilton depression rating scale (hdrs) and manual muscle test (mmt) were administered at the screening and initial phases of the study  and at the 4th  8th  12th and 16th week of the daily electro-acupuncture treatment. [results] the electro-acupuncture treatment reduced psd (as assessed by bdi and hdrs) of the patients. in particular  the depression of the good motor function group was significantly more reduced than that of the poor motor function group. the degree of motor function impairment did not change throughout the study in either group. [conclusion] the results of the present study demonstrate that electro-acupuncture therapy can improve psd  and that the treatment effect varies depending on the degree of motor function impairment.
518,developmental heterogeneity of cardiac fibroblasts does not predict pathological proliferation and activation.,rationale fibrosis is mediated partly by extracellular matrix-depositing fibroblasts in the heart. although these mesenchymal cells are reported to have multiple embryonic origins  the functional consequence of this heterogeneity is unknown. objective we sought to validate a panel of surface markers to prospectively identify cardiac fibroblasts. we elucidated the developmental origins of cardiac fibroblasts and characterized their corresponding phenotypes. we also determined proliferation rates of each developmental subset of fibroblasts after pressure overload injury. methods and results we showed that thy1(+)cd45(-)cd31(-)cd11b(-)ter119(-) cells constitute the majority of cardiac fibroblasts. we characterized these cells using flow cytometry  epifluorescence and confocal microscopy  and transcriptional profiling (using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and rna-seq). we used lineage tracing  transplantation studies  and parabiosis to show that most adult cardiac fibroblasts derive from the epicardium  a minority arises from endothelial cells  and a small fraction from pax3-expressing cells. we did not detect generation of cardiac fibroblasts by bone marrow or circulating cells. interestingly  proliferation rates of fibroblast subsets on injury were identical  and the relative abundance of each lineage remained the same after injury. the anatomic distribution of fibroblast lineages also remained unchanged after pressure overload. furthermore  rna-seq analysis demonstrated that tie2-derived and tbx18-derived fibroblasts within each operation group exhibit similar gene expression profiles. conclusions the cellular expansion of cardiac fibroblasts after transaortic constriction surgery was not restricted to any single developmental subset. the parallel proliferation and activation of a heterogeneous population of fibroblasts on pressure overload could suggest that common signaling mechanisms stimulate their pathological response.
520,protein lysine acetylated/deacetylated enzymes and the metabolism-related diseases,lysine acetylation is a reversible posttranslational modifcation  an epigenetic phenomenon  referred to as transfer of an acetyl group from acetyl coa to lysine e- amino group of targeted protein  which is modulated by acetyltransferases (histone/ lysine (k) acetyltransferases  hats/kats) and deacetylases (histone/lysine (k) deacetylases  hdacs/kdacs). lysine acetylation regulates various metabolic processes  such as fatty acid oxidation  krebs cycle  oxidative phosphorylation  angiogenesis and so on. thus disorders of lysine acetylation may be correlated with obesity  diabetes and cardiovascular disease  which are termed as the metabolic complication. with accumulating studies on proteomic acetylation  lysine acetylation also involves in cell immune status and degenerative diseases  for example  alzheimer’s disease and huntington’s disease. this review primarily summarizes the current studies of lysine acetylation in metabolism modulation and in metabolism-related diseases  such as cardiovascular disease and fat metabolism disorder.
522,therapeutic efficacy of a multi-epitope vaccine against helicobacter pylori infection in balb/c mice model.,epitope vaccine is a promising option for therapeutic vaccination against helicobacter pylori (h. pylori) infection. in this study  we constructed a multi-epitope vaccine with five epitopes and mucosal adjuvant e. coli heat-labile enterotoxin b subunit (ltb) named huepi-ltb and evaluated its therapeutic effect against h. pylori infection in balb/c mice model. huepi-ltb containing three th epitopes from ureb and two b cell epitopes from ureb and hpaa was constructed and expressed in e. coli. oral therapeutic immunization with huepi-ltb significantly decreased h. pylori colonization compared with oral immunization with pbs  and the protection was correlated with antigen-specific cd4+ t cells and igg and mucosal iga antibody responses. this multi-epitope vaccine may be a promising vaccine candidate that may help to control h. pylori infection.
524,pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics of eptifibatide in patients with acute coronary syndromes: prospective analysis from pursuit.,background platelet deposition and aggregation are central to the pathogenesis of ischemic complications of acute coronary syndromes (acs). pharmacodynamic effects of the platelet glycoprotein iib/iiia antagonist eptifibatide have been delineated in healthy subjects but not in patients with acs. we assessed effects of eptifibatide on ex vivo platelet aggregation in patients enrolled in the platelet glycoprotein iib/iiia in unstable angina: receptor suppression using integrilin (eptifibatide) therapy (pursuit) trial of acs. methods and results patients were randomly assigned to an intravenous bolus (180 microgram/kg) and 72-hour infusion of eptifibatide (2.0 microgram/kg per minute  n=48) or placebo (n=50). we assessed correlations of plasma eptifibatide levels with receptor occupancy and inhibition of ex vivo platelet aggregation at 5 minutes and 1  4  24  48  and 72 hours during treatment and 4 and 8 hours after termination of infusion. blood was collected in buffered citrate and d-phenylalanyl-l-prolyl-l-arginine chloromethylketone anticoagulants. although eptifibatide produced profound  prolonged inhibition of platelet aggregation during therapy  aggregation appeared to recover partially by 4 hours after the bolus. the aggregation response was greater with thrombin receptor agonist peptide versus adp stimulation; inhibition of platelet aggregation was greater in blood samples anticoagulated with citrate versus d-phenylalanyl-l-prolyl-l-arginine chloromethylketone (ppack). plasma eptifibatide levels correlated significantly with receptor occupancy but not with inhibition of platelet aggregation. conclusions a bolus and infusion of eptifibatide inhibits platelet aggregation profoundly in patients with acs and is followed by brief  partial recovery. these results enhance our understanding of the relation between pharmacodynamic and clinical effects of eptifibatide in such patients and may have important implications for its use in percutaneous interventions.
526,statistical methods for assessing agreement between two methods of clinical measurement,in clinical measurement comparison of a new measurement technique with an established one is often needed to see whether they agree sufficiently for the new to replace the old. such investigations are often analysed inappropriately  notably by using correlation coefficients. the use of correlation is misleading. an alternative approach  based on graphical techniques and simple calculations  is described  together with the relation between this analysis and the assessment of repeatability.
528,the neural crest is a source of mesenchymal stem cells with specialized hematopoietic stem cell niche function,mesenchymal stem cells (mscs) and osteolineage cells contribute to the hematopoietic stem cell (hsc) niche in the bone marrow of long bones. however  their developmental relationships remain unclear. in this study  we demonstrate that different msc populations in the developing marrow of long bones have distinct functions. proliferative mesoderm-derived nestin(-) mscs participate in fetal skeletogenesis and lose msc activity soon after birth. in contrast  quiescent neural crest-derived nestin(+) cells preserve msc activity  but do not generate fetal chondrocytes. instead  they differentiate into hsc niche-forming mscs  helping to establish the hsc niche by secreting cxcl12. perineural migration of these cells to the bone marrow requires the erbb3 receptor. the neonatal nestin-gfp(+) pdgfrα(-) cell population also contains schwann cell precursors  but does not comprise mature schwann cells. thus  in the developing bone marrow hsc niche-forming mscs share a common origin with sympathetic peripheral neurons and glial cells  and ontogenically distinct mscs have non-overlapping functions in endochondrogenesis and hsc niche formation.
530,inheritance of coronary artery disease in men: an analysis of the role of the y chromosome,background a sexual dimorphism exists in the incidence and prevalence of coronary artery disease--men are more commonly affected than are age-matched women. we explored the role of the y chromosome in coronary artery disease in the context of this sexual inequity. methods we genotyped 11 markers of the male-specific region of the y chromosome in 3233 biologically unrelated british men from three cohorts: the british heart foundation family heart study (bhf-fhs)  west of scotland coronary prevention study (woscops)  and cardiogenics study. on the basis of this information  each y chromosome was tracked back into one of 13 ancient lineages defined as haplogroups. we then examined associations between common y chromosome haplogroups and the risk of coronary artery disease in cross-sectional bhf-fhs and prospective woscops. finally  we undertook functional analysis of y chromosome effects on monocyte and macrophage transcriptome in british men from the cardiogenics study. findings of nine haplogroups identified  two (r1b1b2 and i) accounted for roughly 90% of the y chromosome variants among british men. carriers of haplogroup i had about a 50% higher age-adjusted risk of coronary artery disease than did men with other y chromosome lineages in bhf-fhs (odds ratio 1·75  95% ci 1·20-2·54  p=0·004)  woscops (1·45  1·08-1·95  p=0·012)  and joint analysis of both populations (1·56  1·24-1·97  p=0·0002). the association between haplogroup i and increased risk of coronary artery disease was independent of traditional cardiovascular and socioeconomic risk factors. analysis of macrophage transcriptome in the cardiogenics study revealed that 19 molecular pathways showing strong differential expression between men with haplogroup i and other lineages of the y chromosome were interconnected by common genes related to inflammation and immunity  and that some of them have a strong relevance to atherosclerosis. interpretation the human y chromosome is associated with risk of coronary artery disease in men of european ancestry  possibly through interactions of immunity and inflammation. funding british heart foundation; uk national institute for health research; lew carty charitable fund; national health and medical research council of australia; european union 6th framework programme; wellcome trust.
532,detection of histone modifications at specific gene loci in single cells in histological sections,chromatin immunoprecipitation assays have contributed greatly to our understanding of the role of histone modifications in gene regulation. however  they do not permit analysis with single-cell resolution  thus confounding analyses of heterogeneous cell populations. here we present a method that permits visualization of histone modifications of single genomic loci with single-cell resolution in formaldehyde-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue sections based on combined use of in situ hybridization and proximity ligation assays. we show that dimethylation of lysine 4 of histone h3 (h3k4me2) at the myh11 locus is restricted to the smooth muscle cell (smc) lineage in human and mouse tissue sections and that the mark persists even in phenotypically modulated smc in atherosclerotic lesions that show no detectable expression of smc marker genes. this methodology has promise for broad applications in the study of epigenetic mechanisms in complex multicellular tissues in development and disease.
534,high prevalence of asthma in cross country skiers.,objectives to study the prevalence of asthma (asthma symptoms and bronchial hyperresponsiveness) in swedish cross country skiers compared with non-skiers and monitor changes in symptoms and bronchial hyperresponsiveness during the year. design cross sectional study during the winter ski season and in the summer. setting six ski clubs for élite skiers (total 47) in two different areas of sweden. subjects 42 élite cross country skiers and 29 non-skiing referents. main outcome measures bronchial responsiveness  asthma symptoms  and lung function. results bronchial responsiveness was significantly greater and asthma symptoms more prevalent in the skiers than in the referents. there was no difference in bronchial responsiveness within either group between winter and summer. 15 of the 42 skiers used antiasthmatic drugs regularly and 23 had a combination of asthma symptoms and hyperresponsive airways or physician diagnosed asthma  or both. altogether 33 skiers had symptoms of asthma or bronchial hyperresponsiveness. one of the referents had symptoms of asthma and bronchial hyperresponsiveness  and none used antiasthmatic drugs regularly. conclusions asthma  asthma-like symptoms  and bronchial hyperresponsiveness are much more common in cross country skiers than in the general population and non-skiers. strenuous exercise at low temperatures entailing breathing large volumes of cold air is the most probable explanation of persistent asthma in skiers.
536,sod1 integrates signals from oxygen and glucose to repress respiration,cu/zn superoxide dismutase (sod1) is an abundant enzyme that has been best studied as a regulator of antioxidant defense. using the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae  we report that sod1 transmits signals from oxygen and glucose to repress respiration. the mechanism involves sod1-mediated stabilization of two casein kinase 1-gamma (ck1γ) homologs  yck1p and yck2p  required for respiratory repression. sod1 binds a c-terminal degron we identified in yck1p/yck2p and promotes kinase stability by catalyzing superoxide conversion to peroxide. the effects of sod1 on ck1γ stability are also observed with mammalian sod1 and ck1γ and in a human cell line. therefore  in a single circuit  oxygen  glucose  and reactive oxygen can repress respiration through sod1/ck1γ signaling. our data therefore may provide mechanistic insight into how rapidly proliferating cells and many cancers accomplish glucose-mediated repression of respiration in favor of aerobic glycolysis.
538,persistent lcmv infection is controlled by blockade of type i interferon signaling.,during persistent viral infections  chronic immune activation  negative immune regulator expression  an elevated interferon signature  and lymphoid tissue destruction correlate with disease progression. we demonstrated that blockade of type i interferon (ifn-i) signaling using an ifn-i receptor neutralizing antibody reduced immune system activation  decreased expression of negative immune regulatory molecules  and restored lymphoid architecture in mice persistently infected with lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus. ifn-i blockade before and after establishment of persistent virus infection resulted in enhanced virus clearance and was cd4 t cell-dependent. hence  we demonstrate a direct causal link between ifn-i signaling  immune activation  negative immune regulator expression  lymphoid tissue disorganization  and virus persistence. our results suggest that therapies targeting ifn-i may help control persistent virus infections.
540,endocrine regulation of human fetal growth: the role of the mother  placenta  and fetus.,the environment in which the fetus develops is critical for its survival and long-term health. the regulation of normal human fetal growth involves many multidirectional interactions between the mother  placenta  and fetus. the mother supplies nutrients and oxygen to the fetus via the placenta. the fetus influences the provision of maternal nutrients via the placental production of hormones that regulate maternal metabolism. the placenta is the site of exchange between mother and fetus and regulates fetal growth via the production and metabolism of growth-regulating hormones such as igfs and glucocorticoids. adequate trophoblast invasion in early pregnancy and increased uteroplacental blood flow ensure sufficient growth of the uterus  placenta  and fetus. the placenta may respond to fetal endocrine signals to increase transport of maternal nutrients by growth of the placenta  by activation of transport systems  and by production of placental hormones to influence maternal physiology and even behavior. there are consequences of poor fetal growth both in the short term and long term  in the form of increased mortality and morbidity. endocrine regulation of fetal growth involves interactions between the mother  placenta  and fetus  and these effects may program long-term physiology.
542,coupled local translation and degradation regulate growth cone collapse,local translation mediates axonal responses to semaphorin3a (sema3a) and other guidance cues. however  only a subset of the axonal proteome is locally synthesized  whereas most proteins are trafficked from the soma. the reason why only specific proteins are locally synthesized is unknown. here we show that local protein synthesis and degradation are linked events in growth cones. we find that growth cones exhibit high levels of ubiquitination and that local signalling pathways trigger the ubiquitination and degradation of rhoa  a mediator of sema3a-induced growth cone collapse. inhibition of rhoa degradation is sufficient to remove the protein-synthesis requirement for sema3a-induced growth cone collapse. in addition to rhoa  we find that locally translated proteins are the main targets of the ubiquitin-proteasome system in growth cones. thus  local protein degradation is a major feature of growth cones and creates a requirement for local translation to replenish proteins needed to maintain growth cone responses.
544,population dynamics of a pathogen: the conundrum of vivax malaria,building a mathematical model of population dynamics of pathogens within their host involves considerations of factors similar to those in ecology  as pathogens can prey on cells in the host. but within the multicellular host  attacked cell types are integrated with other cellular systems  which in turn intervene in the infection. for example  immune responses attempt to sense and then eliminate or contain pathogens  and homeostatic mechanisms try to compensate for cell loss. this review focuses on modeling applied to malarias  diseases caused by single-cell eukaryote parasites that infect red blood cells  with special concern given to vivax malaria  a disease often thought to be benign (if sometimes incapacitating) because the parasite only attacks a small proportion of red blood cells  the very youngest ones. however  i will use mathematical modeling to argue that depletion of this pool of red blood cells can be disastrous to the host if growth of the parasite is not vigorously check by host immune responses. also  modeling can elucidate aspects of new field observations that indicate that vivax malaria is more dangerous than previously thought. electronic supplementary material: the online version of this article (doi:10.1007/s12551-010-0034-3) contains supplementary material  which is available to authorized users.
546,calcium absorption varies within the reference range for serum 25-hydroxyvitamin d.,background calcium absorption is generally considered to be impaired under conditions of vitamin d deficiency  but the vitamin d status that fully normalizes absorption is not known for humans. objective to quantify calcium absorption at two levels of vitamin d repletion  using pharmacokinetic methods and commercially marketed calcium supplements. design two experiments performed in the spring of the year  one year apart. in the first  in which participants were pretreated with 25-hydroxyvitamin d (25ohd)  mean serum 25ohd concentration was 86.5 nmol/l; and in the other  with no pretreatment  mean serum concentration was 50.2 nmol/l. participants received 500 mg oral calcium loads as a part of a standard low calcium breakfast. a low calcium lunch was provided at mid-day. blood was obtained fasting and at frequent intervals for 10 to 12 hours thereafter. methods relative calcium absorption at the two 25ohd concentrations was estimated from the area under the curve (auc) for the load-induced increment in serum total calcium. results auc(9) (+/- sem)  was 3.63 mg hr/dl +/- 0.234 in participants pretreated with 25ohd and 2.20 +/- 0.240 in those not pretreated (p < 0.001). in brief  absorption was 65% higher at serum 25ohd levels averaging 86.5 nmol/l than at levels averaging 50 nmol/l (both values within the nominal reference range for this analyte). conclusions despite the fact that the mean serum 25ohd level in the experiment without supplementation was within the current reference ranges  calcium absorptive performance at 50 nmol/l was significantly reduced relative to that at a mean 25ohd level of 86 nmol/l. thus  individuals with serum 25-hydroxyvitamin d levels at the low end of the current reference ranges may not be getting the full benefit from their calcium intake. we conclude that the lower end of the current reference range is set too low.
548,genome-wide profiling of h3k56 acetylation and transcription factor binding sites in human adipocytes,the growing epidemic of obesity and metabolic diseases calls for a better understanding of adipocyte biology. the regulation of transcription in adipocytes is particularly important  as it is a target for several therapeutic approaches. transcriptional outcomes are influenced by both histone modifications and transcription factor binding. although the epigenetic states and binding sites of several important transcription factors have been profiled in the mouse 3t3-l1 cell line  such data are lacking in human adipocytes. in this study  we identified h3k56 acetylation sites in human adipocytes derived from mesenchymal stem cells. h3k56 is acetylated by cbp and p300  and deacetylated by sirt1  all are proteins with important roles in diabetes and insulin signaling. we found that while almost half of the genome shows signs of h3k56 acetylation  the highest level of h3k56 acetylation is associated with transcription factors and proteins in the adipokine signaling and type ii diabetes pathways. in order to discover the transcription factors that recruit acetyltransferases and deacetylases to sites of h3k56 acetylation  we analyzed dna sequences near h3k56 acetylated regions and found that the e2f recognition sequence was enriched. using chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by high-throughput sequencing  we confirmed that genes bound by e2f4  as well as those by hsf-1 and c/ebpα  have higher than expected levels of h3k56 acetylation  and that the transcription factor binding sites and acetylation sites are often adjacent but rarely overlap. we also discovered a significant difference between bound targets of c/ebpα in 3t3-l1 and human adipocytes  highlighting the need to construct species-specific epigenetic and transcription factor binding site maps. this is the first genome-wide profile of h3k56 acetylation  e2f4  c/ebpα and hsf-1 binding in human adipocytes  and will serve as an important resource for better understanding adipocyte transcriptional regulation.
550,a classification of unstable angina revisited.,unstable angina is a critical phase of coronary heart disease with widely variable symptoms and prognosis. a decade ago  a classification of unstable angina based on clinical symptoms was introduced. this system was then validated by prospective clinical studies to correlate with the prognosis and was linked to angiographic and histological findings. it has been used to categorize patients in many large clinical trials. in recent years  the pathophysiological roles of platelet activation and inflammation in unstable angina have been elucidated. subsequently  improved markers of myocardial injury  acute-phase proteins  and hemostatic markers that may be associated with clinical outcomes have been identified. particularly  cardiac-specific troponin t and troponin i have been shown to represent the best predictors of early risk in patients with angina at rest. accordingly  it is suggested that the original classification be extended by subclassifying one large group of unstable angina patients  ie  those with angina at rest within the past 48 hours (class iiib)  into troponin-positive (t(pos)) and troponin-negative (t(neg)) patients. the 30-days risk for death and myocardial infarction is considered to be up to 20% in class iiib-t(pos) but <2% in class iiib-t(neg) patients. initial results suggest that troponins may function as surrogate markers for thrombus formation and can effectively guide therapy with glycoprotein iib/iiia antagonists or low-molecular-weight heparins. these observations provide additional impetus for adding the measurement of these markers to the clinical classification and represent a novel concept of treating these high-risk patients.
552,rapid and sensitive rt-quic detection of human creutzfeldt-jakob disease using cerebrospinal fluid,unlabelled fast  definitive diagnosis of creutzfeldt-jakob disease (cjd) is important in assessing patient care options and transmission risks. real-time quaking-induced conversion (rt-quic) assays of cerebrospinal fluid (csf) and nasal-brushing specimens are valuable in distinguishing cjd from non-cjd conditions but have required 2.5 to 5 days. here  an improved rt-quic assay is described which identified positive csf samples within 4 to 14 h with better analytical sensitivity. moreover  analysis of 11 cjd patients demonstrated that while 7 were rt-quic positive using the previous conditions  10 were positive using the new assay. in these and further analyses  a total of 46 of 48 csf samples from sporadic cjd patients were positive  while all 39 non-cjd patients were negative  giving 95.8% diagnostic sensitivity and 100% specificity. this second-generation rt-quic assay markedly improved the speed and sensitivity of detecting prion seeds in csf specimens from cjd patients. this should enhance prospects for rapid and accurate ante mortem cjd diagnosis. importance a long-standing problem in dealing with various neurodegenerative protein misfolding diseases is early and accurate diagnosis. this issue is particularly important with human prion diseases  such as cjd  because prions are deadly  transmissible  and unusually resistant to decontamination. the recently developed rt-quic test allows for highly sensitive and specific detection of cjd in human cerebrospinal fluid and is being broadly implemented as a key diagnostic tool. however  as currently applied  rt-quic takes 2.5 to 5 days and misses 11 to 23% of cjd cases. now  we have markedly improved rt-quic analysis of human csf such that cjd and non-cjd patients can be discriminated in a matter of hours rather than days with enhanced sensitivity. these improvements should allow for much faster  more accurate  and practical testing for cjd. in broader terms  our study provides a prototype for tests for misfolded protein aggregates that cause many important amyloid diseases  such as alzheimer's  parkinson's  and tauopathies.
554,chronic stress  glucocorticoid receptor resistance  inflammation  and disease risk.,we propose a model wherein chronic stress results in glucocorticoid receptor resistance (gcr) that  in turn  results in failure to down-regulate inflammatory response. here we test the model in two viral-challenge studies. in study 1  we assessed stressful life events  gcr  and control variables including baseline antibody to the challenge virus  age  body mass index (bmi)  season  race  sex  education  and virus type in 276 healthy adult volunteers. the volunteers were subsequently quarantined  exposed to one of two rhinoviruses  and followed for 5 d with nasal washes for viral isolation and assessment of signs/symptoms of a common cold. in study 2  we assessed the same control variables and gcr in 79 subjects who were subsequently exposed to a rhinovirus and monitored at baseline and for 5 d after viral challenge for the production of local (in nasal secretions) proinflammatory cytokines (il-1β  tnf-α  and il-6). study 1: after covarying the control variables  those with recent exposure to a long-term threatening stressful experience demonstrated gcr; and those with gcr were at higher risk of subsequently developing a cold. study 2: with the same controls used in study 1  greater gcr predicted the production of more local proinflammatory cytokines among infected subjects. these data provide support for a model suggesting that prolonged stressors result in gcr  which  in turn  interferes with appropriate regulation of inflammation. because inflammation plays an important role in the onset and progression of a wide range of diseases  this model may have broad implications for understanding the role of stress in health.
556,factors influencing b lymphopoiesis after allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation.,in 93 allograft recipients  the numbers of marrow b-cell precursors on days 80 and 365 correlated with the counts of circulating b cells  suggesting that the posttransplantation b-cell deficiency is at least in part due to insufficient b lymphopoiesis. factors that could affect b lymphopoiesis were evaluated. the number of marrow b-cell precursors on days 30 and 80 was at least 4-fold lower in patients with grade 2 to 4 acute graft-versus-host disease (gvhd) compared with patients with grade 0 to 1 acute gvhd. the number of b-cell precursors on day 365 was 18-fold lower in patients with extensive chronic gvhd compared with patients with no or limited chronic gvhd. the number of b-cell precursors was not related to cd34 cell dose  type of transplant (marrow versus blood stem cells)  donor age  or patient age. it was concluded that posttransplantation b-cell deficiency results in part from inhibition of b lymphopoiesis by gvhd and/or its treatment.
558,distinct parietal and temporal pathways to the homologues of broca's area in the monkey,the homologues of the two distinct architectonic areas 44 and 45 that constitute the anterior language zone (broca's region) in the human ventrolateral frontal lobe were recently established in the macaque monkey. although we know that the inferior parietal lobule and the lateral temporal cortical region project to the ventrolateral frontal cortex  we do not know which of the several cortical areas found in those regions project to the homologues of broca's region in the macaque monkey and by means of which white matter pathways. we have used the autoradiographic method  which permits the establishment of the cortical area from which axons originate (i.e.  the site of injection)  the precise course of the axons in the white matter  and their termination within particular cortical areas  to examine the parietal and temporal connections to area 44 and the two subdivisions of area 45 (i.e.  areas 45a and 45b). the results demonstrated a ventral temporo-frontal stream of fibers that originate from various auditory  multisensory  and visual association cortical areas in the intermediate superolateral temporal region. these axons course via the extreme capsule and target most strongly area 45 with a more modest termination in area 44. by contrast  a dorsal stream of axons that originate from various cortical areas in the inferior parietal lobule and the adjacent caudal superior temporal sulcus was found to target both areas 44 and 45. these axons course in the superior longitudinal fasciculus  with some axons originating from the ventral inferior parietal lobule and the adjacent superior temporal sulcus arching and forming a simple arcuate fasciculus. the cortex of the most rostral part of the inferior parietal lobule is preferentially linked with the ventral premotor cortex (ventral area 6) that controls the orofacial musculature. the cortex of the intermediate part of the inferior parietal lobule is linked with both areas 44 and 45. these findings demonstrate the posterior parietal and temporal connections of the ventrolateral frontal areas  which  in the left hemisphere of the human brain  were adapted for various aspects of language production. these precursor circuits that are found in the nonlinguistic  nonhuman  primate brain also exist in the human brain. the possible reasons why these areas were adapted for language use in the human brain are discussed. the results throw new light on the prelinguistic precursor circuitry of broca's region and help understand functional interactions between broca's ventrolateral frontal region and posterior parietal and temporal association areas.
560,how many images are in an auditory scene?,if an auditory scene consists of many spatially separated sound sources  how many sound sources can be processed by the auditory system? experiment i determined how many speech sources could be localized simultaneously on the azimuth plane. different words were played from multiple loudspeakers  and listeners reported the total number of sound sources and their individual locations. in experiment ii the accuracy of localizing one speech source in a mixture of multiple speech sources was determined. an extra sound source was added to an existing set of sound sources  and the task was to localize that extra source. in experiment iii the setup and task were the same as in experiment i  except that the sounds were tones. the results showed that the maximum number of sound sources that listeners could perceive was limited to approximately four spatially separated speech signals and three for tonal signals. the localization errors increased along with the increase of total number of sound sources. when four or more speech sources already existed  the accuracy in localizing an additional source was near chance.
562,peroxisomes are signaling platforms for antiviral innate immunity,peroxisomes have long been established to play a central role in regulating various metabolic activities in mammalian cells. these organelles act in concert with mitochondria to control the metabolism of lipids and reactive oxygen species. however  while mitochondria have emerged as an important site of antiviral signal transduction  a role for peroxisomes in immune defense is unknown. here  we report that the rig-i-like receptor (rlr) adaptor protein mavs is located on peroxisomes and mitochondria. we find that peroxisomal and mitochondrial mavs act sequentially to create an antiviral cellular state. upon viral infection  peroxisomal mavs induces the rapid interferon-independent expression of defense factors that provide short-term protection  whereas mitochondrial mavs activates an interferon-dependent signaling pathway with delayed kinetics  which amplifies and stabilizes the antiviral response. the interferon regulatory factor irf1 plays a crucial role in regulating mavs-dependent signaling from peroxisomes. these results establish that peroxisomes are an important site of antiviral signal transduction.
564,nuclear accumulation of hdac4 in atm deficiency promotes neurodegeneration in ataxia-telangiectasia,ataxia telangiectasia is a neurodegenerative disease caused by mutation of the atm gene. here we report that ataxia telangiectasia mutated (atm) deficiency causes nuclear accumulation of histone deacetylase 4 (hdac4) in neurons and promotes neurodegeneration. nuclear hdac4 binds to chromatin  as well as to myocyte enhancer factor 2a (mef2a) and camp-responsive element binding protein (creb)  leading to histone deacetylation and altered neuronal gene expression. blocking either hdac4 activity or its nuclear accumulation blunts these neurodegenerative changes and rescues several behavioral abnormalities of atm-deficient mice. full rescue of the neurodegeneration  however  also requires the presence of hdac4 in the cytoplasm  suggesting that the ataxia telangiectasia phenotype results both from a loss of cytoplasmic hdac4 as well as its nuclear accumulation. to remain cytoplasmic  hdac4 must be phosphorylated. the activity of the hdac4 phosphatase  protein phosphatase 2a (pp2a)  is downregulated by atm-mediated phosphorylation. in atm deficiency  enhanced pp2a activity leads to hdac4 dephosphorylation and the nuclear accumulation of hdac4. our results define a crucial role of the cellular localization of hdac4 in the events leading to ataxia telangiectasia neurodegeneration.
566,polymorphism and ligand dependent changes in human glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (glp-1r) function: allosteric rescue of loss of function mutation.,the glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (glp-1r) is a key physiological regulator of insulin secretion and a major therapeutic target for the treatment of type ii diabetes. however  regulation of glp-1r function is complex with multiple endogenous peptides that interact with the receptor  including full-length (1-37) and truncated (7-37) forms of glp-1 that can exist in an amidated form (glp-1(1-36)nh₂ and glp-1(7-36)nh₂) and the related peptide oxyntomodulin. in addition  the glp-1r possesses exogenous agonists  including exendin-4  and the allosteric modulator  compound 2 (6 7-dichloro-2-methylsulfonyl-3-tert-butylaminoquinoxaline). the complexity of this ligand-receptor system is further increased by the presence of several single nucleotide polymorphisms (snps) that are distributed across the receptor. we have investigated 10 glp-1r snps  which were characterized in three physiologically relevant signaling pathways (camp accumulation  extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 phosphorylation  and intracellular ca²⁺ mobilization); ligand binding and cell surface receptor expression were also determined. we demonstrate both ligand- and pathway-specific effects for multiple snps  with the most dramatic effect observed for the met¹⁴⁹ receptor variant. at the met¹⁴⁹ variant  there was selective loss of peptide-induced responses across all pathways examined  but preservation of response to the small molecule compound 2. in contrast  at the cys³³³ variant  peptide responses were preserved but there was attenuated response to compound 2. strikingly  the loss of peptide function at the met¹⁴⁹ receptor variant could be allosterically rescued by compound 2  providing proof-of-principle evidence that allosteric drugs could be used to treat patients with this loss of function variant.
568,global vitamin d levels in relation to age  gender  skin pigmentation and latitude: an ecologic meta-regression analysis,we performed a meta-analysis of cross-sectional studies on serum 25(oh)d status globally. serum 25(oh)d levels on average were 54 nmol/l  were higher in women than men  and higher in caucasians than in non-caucasians. there was no trend in serum 25(oh)d level with latitude. vitamin d deficiency was widespread. we studied vitamin d status (expressed as serum 25-hydroxy-vitamin d [25(oh)d]) in native subjects worldwide. meta-analysis and meta-regression of studies reporting on 25(oh)d in healthy subjects retrieved from pubmed  embase and web of science using the terms “serum”  “25-hydroxy-vitamin d”  “cholecalciferol”  and “human”. a total of 394 studies were included. the mean 25(oh)d level was 54 nmol/l (95% ci: 52–57 nmol/l). women had borderline significantly higher 25(oh)d levels than men  and caucasians had higher levels than non-caucasians. 25(oh)d levels were higher in subjects aged >15 years than in younger subjects. unadjusted there was no significant decrease in 25(oh)d with latitude (slope of curve −0.03 ± 0.12 nmol/l per degree latitude north or south of equator  p = 0.8). there was a significant decline with latitude for caucasians (−0.69 ± 0.30 nmol/l per degree  p = 0.02)  but not for non-caucasians (0.03 ± 0.39 nmol/l per degree  p = 0.14). after adjustment for age  gender  and ethnicity  no overall correlation was present between 25(oh)d and latitude (−0.29 ± 0.24 nmol/l per degree  p = 0.23). there was no overall influence of latitude on 25(oh)d. however  in separate analyses 25(oh)d decreased with latitude in caucasians but not in non-caucasians. a widespread global vitamin d insufficiency was present compared with proposed threshold levels.
570,a novel 3-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase that regulates reproductive development and longevity,endogenous small molecule metabolites that regulate animal longevity are emerging as a novel means to influence health and life span. in c. elegans  bile acid-like steroids called the dafachronic acids (das) regulate developmental timing and longevity through the conserved nuclear hormone receptor daf-12  a homolog of mammalian sterol-regulated receptors lxr and fxr. using metabolic genetics  mass spectrometry  and biochemical approaches  we identify new activities in da biosynthesis and characterize an evolutionarily conserved short chain dehydrogenase  dhs-16  as a novel 3-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase. through regulation of da production  dhs-16 controls daf-12 activity governing longevity in response to signals from the gonad. our elucidation of c. elegans bile acid biosynthetic pathways reveals the possibility of novel ligands as well as striking biochemical conservation to other animals  which could illuminate new targets for manipulating longevity in metazoans.
572,phosphatidylinositol 4 5-bisphosphate functions as a second messenger that regulates cytoskeleton–plasma membrane adhesion,binding interactions between the plasma membrane and the cytoskeleton define cell functions such as cell shape  formation of cell processes  cell movement  and endocytosis. here we use optical tweezers tether force measurements and show that plasma membrane phosphatidylinositol 4 5-bisphosphate (pip2) acts as a second messenger that regulates the adhesion energy between the cytoskeleton and the plasma membrane. receptor stimuli that hydrolyze pip2 lowered adhesion energy  a process that could be mimicked by expressing ph domains that sequester pip2 or by targeting a 5'-pip2-phosphatase to the plasma membrane to selectively lower plasma membrane pip2 concentration. our study suggests that plasma membrane pip2 controls dynamic membrane functions and cell shape by locally increasing and decreasing the adhesion between the actin-based cortical cytoskeleton and the plasma membrane.
574,defective replication stress response inhibits lymphomagenesis and impairs lymphocyte reconstitution,dna replication stress promotes genome instability in cancer. however  the contribution of the replication stress response to the development of malignancies remains unresolved. the dna replication stress response protein smarcal1 stabilizes dna replication forks and prevents replication fork collapse  a cause of dna breaks and apoptosis. while the fork regression/remodeling functions of smarcal1 have been investigated  its in vivo functions in replication stress and cancer are unclear. using a gamma radiation (ir)-induced replication stress t-cell lymphoma mouse model  we observed a significant inhibition of lymphomagenesis in mice lacking one or both alleles of smarcal1. notably  a quarter of the smarcal1-deficient mice did not develop tumors. moreover  hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (hspcs) and developing thymocytes in smarcal1-deficient mice showed increased dna damage and apoptosis during the proliferation burst following ir and an impaired ability to repopulate the thymus after ir. additionally  mice lacking smarcal1 showed significant hspc defects when challenged to respond to other replication stress stimuli. thus  our data reveal the critical function of the dna replication stress response and  specifically  smarcal1 in hematopoietic cell survival and tumor development. our results also provide important insight into the immunodeficiency observed in individuals with mutations in smarcal1 by suggesting that it is an hspc defect.
576,laparoscopic adhesiolysis in patients with chronic abdominal pain: a blinded randomised controlled multi-centre trial.,background laparoscopic adhesiolysis for chronic abdominal pain is controversial and is not evidence based. we aimed to test our hypothesis that laparoscopic adhesiolysis leads to substantial pain relief and improvement in quality of life in patients with adhesions and chronic abdominal pain. methods patients had diagnostic laparoscopy for chronic abdominal pain attributed to adhesions; other causes for their pain had been excluded. if adhesions were confirmed during diagnostic laparoscopy  patients were randomly assigned either to laparoscopic adhesiolysis or no treatment. treatment allocation was concealed from patients  and assessors were unaware of patients' treatment and outcome. pain was assessed for 1 year by visual analogue score (vas) score (scale 0-100)  pain change score  use of analgesics  and quality of life score. analysis was by intention to treat. findings of 116 patients enrolled for diagnostic laparoscopy  100 were randomly allocated either laparoscopic adhesiolysis (52) or no treatment (48). both groups reported substantial pain relief and a significantly improved quality of life  but there was no difference between the groups (mean change from baseline of vas score at 12 months: difference 3 points  p=0.53; 95% ci -7 to 13). interpretation although laparoscopic adhesiolysis relieves chronic abdominal pain  it is not more beneficial than diagnostic laparoscopy alone. therefore  laparoscopic adhesiolysis cannot be recommended as a treatment for adhesions in patients with chronic abdominal pain.
578,unique response pathways are established by allosteric interactions among nuclear hormone receptors,heterodimerization is a common paradigm among eukaryotic transcription factors. the 9-cis retinoic acid receptor (rxr) serves as a common heterodimerization partner for several nuclear receptors  including the thyroid hormone receptor (t3r) and retinoic acid receptor (rar). this raises the question as to whether these complexes possess dual hormonal responsiveness. we devised a strategy to examine the transcriptional properties of each receptor individually or when tethered to a heterodimeric partner. we find that the intrinsic binding properties of rxr are masked in t3r-rxr and rar-rxr heterodimers. in contrast  rxr is active as a non-dna-binding cofactor with the ngfi-b/nurr1 orphan receptors. heterodimerization of rxr with constitutively active ngfi-b/nurr1 creates a novel hormone-dependent complex. these findings suggest that allosteric interactions among heterodimers create complexes with unique properties. we suggest that allostery is a critical feature underlying the generation of diversity in hormone response networks.
580,kras gene amplification and overexpression but not mutation associates with aggressive and metastatic endometrial cancer,background three quarter of endometrial carcinomas are treated at early stage. still  15 to 20% of these patients experience recurrence  with little effect from systemic therapies. homo sapiens v-ki-ras2 kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogenes homologue (kras) mutations have been reported to have an important role in tumorigenesis for human cancers  but there is limited knowledge regarding clinical relevance of kras status in endometrial carcinomas. methods we have performed a comprehensive and integrated characterisation of genome-wide expression related to kras mutations and copy-number alterations in primary- and metastatic endometrial carcinoma lesions in relation to clinical and histopathological data. a primary investigation set and clinical validation set was applied  consisting of 414 primary tumours and 61 metastatic lesions totally. results amplification and gain of kras present in 3% of the primary lesions and 18% of metastatic lesions correlated significantly with poor outcome  high international federation of gynaecology and obstetrics stage  non-endometrioid subtype  high grade  aneuploidy  receptor loss and high kras mrna levels  also found to be associated with aggressive phenotype. in contrast  kras mutations were present in 14.7% of primary lesions with no increase in metastatic lesions  and did not influence outcome  but was significantly associated with endometrioid subtype  low grade and obesity. conclusion these results support that kras amplification and kras mrna expression  both increasing from primary to metastatic lesions  are relevant for endometrial carcinoma disease progression.
582,best--worst scaling: what it can do for health care research and how to do it.,statements like "quality of care is more highly valued than waiting time" can neither be supported nor refuted by comparisons of utility parameters from a traditional discrete choice experiment (dce). best--worst scaling can overcome this problem because it asks respondents to perform a different choice task. however  whilst the nature of the best--worst task is generally understood  there are a number of issues relating to the design and analysis of a best--worst choice experiment that require further exposition. this paper illustrates how to aggregate and analyse such data and using a quality of life pilot study demonstrates how richer insights can be drawn by the use of best--worst tasks.
584,generation and characterization of methyl-lysine histone antibodies.,publisher summary this chapter summarizes the development and characterization of rabbit polyclonal antibodies named histone that are directed against the methylated h3-k9 position. it provides protocols for peptide design  rabbit immunizations  and quality controls of methyl-lysine histone antibodies  followed by their in vivo characterization using indirect if of inter-and metaphase chromatin in wild-type (wt) and mutant mouse cells that are deficient for the suv39h histone methyltransferases (hmtases). histone amino-termini (tails) protrude from the nucleosome core and are subject to a variety of post-translational modifications  including acetylation (on lysine residues)  phosphorylation (on serine and threonine residues)  methylation (on lysine and arginine residues)  ubiquitination (on lysine residues)  and adp-ribosylation (on glutamic acid residues). in addition to their structural roles  histones play important functions in the control of gene expression by regulating access to the underlying nucleosomal template. it is without doubt that the development of high-quality  position-specific methyl-lysine histone antibodies can provide important tools for the further decoding of the epigenetic information  which is in part  indexed by distinct methylation states of selective lysine residues in the histone amino-termini. a comparative analysis indicates significant discrepancies in the specificity and avidity of the available methyl-lysine histone antibodies and highlights the need for extensive quality controls  such that experimental data can be correctly interpreted despite the exquisite complexity of histone lysine methylation.
586,a sensitive mass spectrometry platform identifies metabolic changes of life history traits in c. elegans,abnormal nutrient metabolism is a hallmark of aging  and the underlying genetic and nutritional framework is rapidly being uncovered  particularly using c. elegans as a model. however  the direct metabolic consequences of perturbations in life history of c. elegans remain to be clarified. based on recent advances in the metabolomics field  we optimized and validated a sensitive mass spectrometry (ms) platform for identification of major metabolite classes in worms and applied it to study age and diet related changes. using this platform that allowed detection of over 600 metabolites in a sample of 2500 worms  we observed marked changes in fatty acids  amino acids and phospholipids during worm life history  which were independent from the germ-line. worms underwent a striking shift in lipid metabolism after early adulthood that was at least partly controlled by the metabolic regulator aak-2/ampk. most amino acids peaked during development  except aspartic acid and glycine  which accumulated in aged worms. dietary intervention also influenced worm metabolite profiles and the regulation was highly specific depending on the metabolite class. altogether  these ms-based methods are powerful tools to perform worm metabolomics for aging and metabolism-oriented studies.
588,lack of skeletal muscle il-6 affects pyruvate dehydrogenase activity at rest and during prolonged exercise,pyruvate dehydrogenase (pdh) plays a key role in the regulation of skeletal muscle substrate utilization. il-6 is produced in skeletal muscle during exercise in a duration dependent manner and has been reported to increase whole body fatty acid oxidation  muscle glucose uptake and decrease pdha activity in skeletal muscle of fed mice. the aim of the present study was to examine whether muscle il-6 contributes to exercise-induced pdh regulation in skeletal muscle. skeletal muscle-specific il-6 knockout (il-6 mko) mice and floxed littermate controls (control) completed a single bout of treadmill exercise for 10  60 or 120 min  with rested mice of each genotype serving as basal controls. the respiratory exchange ratio (rer) was overall higher (p<0.05) in il-6 mko than control mice during the 120 min of treadmill exercise  while rer decreased during exercise independent of genotype. ampk and acc phosphorylation also increased with exercise independent of genotype. pdha activity was in control mice higher (p<0.05) at 10 and 60 min of exercise than at rest but remained unchanged in il-6 mko mice. in addition  pdha activity was higher (p<0.05) in il-6 mko than control mice at rest and 60 min of exercise. neither pdh phosphorylation nor acetylation could explain the genotype differences in pdha activity. together  this provides evidence that skeletal muscle il-6 contributes to the regulation of pdh at rest and during prolonged exercise and suggests that muscle il-6 normally dampens carbohydrate utilization during prolonged exercise via effects on pdh.
590,interferons: success in anti-viral immunotherapy.,the interferons (ifns) are glycoproteins with strong antiviral activities that represent one of the first lines of host defense against invading pathogens. these proteins are classified into three groups  type i  ii and iii ifns  based on the structure of their receptors on the cell surface. due to their ability to modulate immune responses  they have become attractive therapeutic options to control chronic virus infections. in combination with other drugs  type i ifns are considered as "standard of care" in suppressing hepatitis c (hcv) and hepatitis b (hbv) infections  while type iii ifn has generated encouraging results as a treatment for hcv infection in phase iii clinical trials. however  though effective  using ifns as a treatment is not without the need for caution. ifns are such powerful cytokines that affect a wide array of cell types; as a result  patients usually experience unpleasant symptoms  with a percentage of patients suffering system wide effects. thus  constant monitoring is required for patients treated with ifn in order to reach the treatment goals of suppressing virus infection and maintaining quality of life.
592,the non-coding rna landscape of human hematopoiesis and leukemia,non-coding rnas have emerged as crucial regulators of gene expression and cell fate decisions. however  their expression patterns and regulatory functions during normal and malignant human hematopoiesis are incompletely understood. here we present a comprehensive resource defining the non-coding rna landscape of the human hematopoietic system. based on highly specific non-coding rna expression portraits per blood cell population  we identify unique fingerprint non-coding rnas-such as linc00173 in granulocytes-and assign these to critical regulatory circuits involved in blood homeostasis. following the incorporation of acute myeloid leukemia samples into the landscape  we further uncover prognostically relevant non-coding rna stem cell signatures shared between acute myeloid leukemia blasts and healthy hematopoietic stem cells. our findings highlight the importance of the non-coding transcriptome in the formation and maintenance of the human blood hierarchy. while micro-rnas are known regulators of haematopoiesis and leukemogenesis  the role of long non-coding rnas is less clear. here the authors provide a non-coding rna expression landscape of the human hematopoietic system  highlighting their role in the formation and maintenance of the human blood hierarchy.
594,neutrophils in the activation and regulation of innate and adaptive immunity,neutrophils have long been viewed as the final effector cells of an acute inflammatory response  with a primary role in the clearance of extracellular pathogens. however  more recent evidence has extended the functions of these cells. the newly discovered repertoire of effector molecules in the neutrophil armamentarium includes a broad array of cytokines  extracellular traps and effector molecules of the humoral arm of the innate immune system. in addition  neutrophils are involved in the activation  regulation and effector functions of innate and adaptive immune cells. accordingly  neutrophils have a crucial role in the pathogenesis of a broad range of diseases  including infections caused by intracellular pathogens  autoimmunity  chronic inflammation and cancer.
596,metaplasia and transdifferentiation: from pure biology to the clinic,transformations from one tissue type to another make up a well established set of phenomena that can be explained by the principles of developmental biology. although these phenomena might be rare in nature  we can now imagine the possibility of deliberately reprogramming cells from one tissue type to another by manipulating the expression of transcription factors. this approach could generate new therapies for many human diseases.
598,embryonic stem cell lines from human blastocysts: somatic differentiation in vitro,we describe the derivation of pluripotent embryonic stem (es) cells from human blastocysts. two diploid es cell lines have been cultivated in vitro for extended periods while maintaining expression of markers characteristic of pluripotent primate cells. human es cells express the transcription factor oct-4  essential for development of pluripotential cells in the mouse. when grafted into scid mice  both lines give rise to teratomas containing derivatives of all three embryonic germ layers. both cell lines differentiate in vitro into extraembryonic and somatic cell lineages. neural progenitor cells may be isolated from differentiating es cell cultures and induced to form mature neurons. embryonic stem cells provide a model to study early human embryology  an investigational tool for discovery of novel growth factors and medicines  and a potential source of cells for use in transplantation therapy.
600,identification and distinct regulation of yeast tata box-containing genes.,despite being one of the first eukaryotic transcriptional regulatory elements identified  the sequence of a native tata box and its significance remain elusive. applying criteria associated with tata boxes we queried several saccharomyces genomes and arrived at the consensus tata(a/t)a(a/t)(a/g). approximately 20% of yeast genes contain a tata box. strikingly  tata box-containing genes are associated with responses to stress  are highly regulated  and preferentially utilize saga rather than tfiid when compared to tata-less promoters. transcriptional regulation in yeast appears to be mechanistically bipolar  possibly reflecting a need to balance inducible stress-related responses with constitutive housekeeping functions.
602,myelodysplastic syndromes: revisiting the role of the bone marrow microenvironment in disease pathogenesis,myelodysplastic syndromes are a heterogeneous group of diseases characterized by ineffective hematopoiesis and the propensity to leukemic transformation. their pathogenesis is complex and likely depends on interplay between aberrant hematopoietic cells and their microenvironment. how niche cells play a role in disease evolution is poorly defined  but the delineation of the hematopoietic stem cell niche and the ability to interrogate its role in hematopoietic disease in animal models have furthered our insights in recent years. the data support a view in which the microenvironment can play an active role in the evolution of myelodysplasia and myeloproliferative disorders  thus providing further rationale to explore therapeutic targeting of mesenchymal–hematopoietic interactions in these diseases.
604,patterns of chlamydia testing in different settings and implications for wider sti diagnosis and care: a probability sample survey of the british population,background following widespread rollout of chlamydia testing to non-specialist and community settings in the uk  many individuals receive a chlamydia test without being offered comprehensive sti and hiv testing. we assess sexual behaviour among testers in different settings with a view to understanding their need for other sti diagnostic services. methods a probability sample survey of the british population undertaken 2010-2012 (the third national survey of sexual attitudes and lifestyles). we analysed weighted data on chlamydia testing (past year)  including location of most recent test  and diagnoses (past 5 years) from individuals aged 16-44 years reporting at least one sexual partner in the past year (4992 women  3406 men). results of the 26.8% (95% ci 25.4% to 28.2%) of women and 16.7% (15.5% to 18.1%) of men reporting a chlamydia test in the past year  28.4% of women and 41.2% of men had tested in genitourinary medicine (gum)  41.1% and 20.7% of women and men respectively tested in general practice (gp) and the remainder tested in other non-gum settings. women tested outside gum were more likely to be older  in a relationship and to live in rural areas. individuals tested outside gum reported fewer risk behaviours; nevertheless  11.0% (8.6% to 14.1%) of women and 6.8% (3.9% to 11.6%) of men tested in gp and 13.2% (10.2% to 16.8%) and 9.6% (6.5% to 13.8%) of women and men tested in other non-gum settings reported 'unsafe sex'  defined as two or more partners and no condom use with any partner in the past year. individuals treated for chlamydia outside gum in the past 5 years were less likely to report an hiv test in that time frame (women: 54.5% (42.7% to 65.7%) vs 74.1% (65.9% to 80.9%) in gum; men: 23.9% (12.7% to 40.5%) vs 65.8% (56.2% to 74.3%)). conclusions most chlamydia testing occurred in non-gum settings  among populations reporting fewer risk behaviours. however  there is a need to provide pathways to comprehensive sti care to the sizeable minority at higher risk.
606,microenvironment-dependent growth of pre-neoplastic and malignant plasma cells in humanized mice,most human cancers  including myeloma  are preceded by a precursor state. there is an unmet need for in vivo models to study the interaction of human preneoplastic cells in the bone marrow microenvironment with non-malignant cells. here  we genetically humanized mice to permit the growth of primary human preneoplastic and malignant plasma cells together with non-malignant cells in vivo. growth was largely restricted to the bone marrow  mirroring the pattern in patients with myeloma. xenografts captured the genomic complexity of parental tumors and revealed additional somatic changes. moreover  xenografts from patients with preneoplastic gammopathy showed progressive growth  suggesting that the clinical stability of these lesions may in part be due to growth controls extrinsic to tumor cells. these data demonstrate a new approach to investigate the entire spectrum of human plasma cell neoplasia and illustrate the utility of humanized models for understanding the functional diversity of human tumors.
608,diabetes-induced effects on cardiomyocytes in chick embryonic heart micromass and mouse embryonic d3 differentiated stem cells.,diabetes mellitus during pregnancy is a considerable medical challenge  since it is related to ‎augmented morbidity and mortality concerns for both the fetus ‎and the pregnant woman. records show that the etiology of diabetic ‎embryopathy is complicated  as many teratological factors might be involved ‎in the mechanisms of diabetes mellitus-induced congenital malformation. ‎in this study  the potential cardiotoxic effect of hyperglycemia with hyperketonemia was investigated by using two in vitro models; primary chick embryonic cardiomyocytes and stem cell derived cardiomyocytes  where adverse effects were recorded in both systems. the cells were evaluated by changes in beating activity  cell activity  protein content  ros production  dna damage and differentiating stem cell migration. the diabetic formulae used produced an increase in dna damage and a decline in cell migration in mouse embryonic stem cells. these results provide an additional insight into adverse effects during gestational diabetes mellitus and a recommendation for expectant mothers and maternity staff to monitor glycaemic levels months ahead of conception. this study also supports the recommendation of using antioxidants during pregnancy to prevent dna damage by the production of ros  which might result in heart defects as well as other developmental anomalies.
610,human trpml1 channel structures in open and closed conformations,transient receptor potential mucolipin 1 (trpml1) is a ca2+-releasing cation channel that mediates the calcium signalling and homeostasis of lysosomes. mutations in trpml1 lead to mucolipidosis type iv  a severe lysosomal storage disorder. here we report two electron cryo-microscopy structures of full-length human trpml1: a 3.72-å apo structure at ph 7.0 in the closed state  and a 3.49-å agonist-bound structure at ph 6.0 in an open state. several aromatic and hydrophobic residues in pore helix 1  helices s5 and s6  and helix s6 of a neighbouring subunit  form a hydrophobic cavity to house the agonist  suggesting a distinct agonist-binding site from that found in trpv1  a trp channel from a different subfamily. the opening of trpml1 is associated with distinct dilations of its lower gate together with a slight structural movement of pore helix 1. our work reveals the regulatory mechanism of trpml channels  facilitates better understanding of trp channel activation  and provides insights into the molecular basis of mucolipidosis type iv pathogenesis.
612,can genome engineering be used to target cancer-associated enhancers?,transcriptional misregulation is involved in the development of many diseases  especially neoplastic transformation. distal regulatory elements  such as enhancers  play a major role in specifying cell-specific transcription patterns in both normal and diseased tissues  suggesting that enhancers may be prime targets for therapeutic intervention. by focusing on modulating gene regulation mediated by cell type-specific enhancers  there is hope that normal epigenetic patterning in an affected tissue could be restored with fewer side effects than observed with treatments employing relatively nonspecific inhibitors such as epigenetic drugs. new methods employing genomic nucleases and site-specific epigenetic regulators targeted to specific genomic regions  using either artificial dna-binding proteins or rna-dna interactions  may allow precise genome engineering at enhancers. however  this field is still in its infancy and further refinements that increase specificity and efficiency are clearly required.
614,periosteum contains skeletal stem cells with high bone regenerative potential controlled by periostin,bone regeneration relies on the activation of skeletal stem cells (sscs) that still remain poorly characterized. here  we show that periosteum contains sscs with high bone regenerative potential compared to bone marrow stromal cells/skeletal stem cells (bmscs) in mice. although periosteal cells (pcs) and bmscs are derived from a common embryonic mesenchymal lineage  postnatally pcs exhibit greater clonogenicity  growth and differentiation capacity than bmscs. during bone repair  pcs can efficiently contribute to cartilage and bone  and integrate long-term after transplantation. molecular profiling uncovers genes encoding periostin and other extracellular matrix molecules associated with the enhanced response to injury of pcs. periostin gene deletion impairs pc functions and fracture consolidation. periostin-deficient periosteum cannot reconstitute a pool of pcs after injury demonstrating the presence of sscs within periosteum and the requirement of periostin in maintaining this pool. overall our results highlight the importance of analyzing periosteum and pcs to understand bone phenotypes.
616,association of pembrolizumab with tumor response and survival among patients with advanced melanoma.,importance the programmed death 1 (pd-1) pathway limits immune responses to melanoma and can be blocked with the humanized anti-pd-1 monoclonal antibody pembrolizumab. objective to characterize the association of pembrolizumab with tumor response and overall survival among patients with advanced melanoma. design  settings  and participants open-label  multicohort  phase 1b clinical trials (enrollment  december 2011-september 2013). median duration of follow-up was 21 months. the study was performed in academic medical centers in australia  canada  france  and the united states. eligible patients were aged 18 years and older and had advanced or metastatic melanoma. data were pooled from 655 enrolled patients (135 from a nonrandomized cohort [n = 87 ipilimumab naive; n = 48 ipilimumab treated] and 520 from randomized cohorts [n = 226 ipilimumab naive; n = 294 ipilimumab treated]). cutoff dates were april 18  2014  for safety analyses and october 18  2014  for efficacy analyses. exposures pembrolizumab 10 mg/kg every 2 weeks  10 mg/kg every 3 weeks  or 2 mg/kg every 3 weeks continued until disease progression  intolerable toxicity  or investigator decision. main outcomes and measures the primary end point was confirmed objective response rate (best overall response of complete response or partial response) in patients with measurable disease at baseline per independent central review. secondary end points included toxicity  duration of response  progression-free survival  and overall survival. results among the 655 patients (median [range] age  61 [18-94] years; 405 [62%] men)  581 had measurable disease at baseline. an objective response was reported in 194 of 581 patients (33% [95% ci  30%-37%]) and in 60 of 133 treatment-naive patients (45% [95% ci  36% to 54%]). overall  74% (152/205) of responses were ongoing at the time of data cutoff; 44% (90/205) of patients had response duration for at least 1 year and 79% (162/205) had response duration for at least 6 months. twelve-month progression-free survival rates were 35% (95% ci  31%-39%) in the total population and 52% (95% ci  43%-60%) among treatment-naive patients. median overall survival in the total population was 23 months (95% ci  20-29) with a 12-month survival rate of 66% (95% ci  62%-69%) and a 24-month survival rate of 49% (95% ci  44%-53%). in treatment-naive patients  median overall survival was 31 months (95% ci  24 to not reached) with a 12-month survival rate of 73% (95% ci  65%-79%) and a 24-month survival rate of 60% (95% ci  51%-68%). ninety-two of 655 patients (14%) experienced at least 1 treatment-related grade 3 or 4 adverse event (ae) and 27 of 655 (4%) patients discontinued treatment because of a treatment-related ae. treatment-related serious aes were reported in 59 patients (9%). there were no drug-related deaths. conclusions and relevance among patients with advanced melanoma  pembrolizumab administration was associated with an overall objective response rate of 33%  12-month progression-free survival rate of 35%  and median overall survival of 23 months; grade 3 or 4 treatment-related aes occurred in 14%. trial registration clinicaltrials.gov identifier: nct01295827.
618,suppression of interferon-mediated anti-hbv response by single cpg methylation in the 5′-utr of trim22,objective interferons (ifns) mediate direct antiviral activity. they play a crucial role in the early host immune response against viral infections. however  ifn therapy for hbv infection is less effective than for other viral infections. design we explored the cellular targets of hbv in response to ifns using proteome-wide screening. results using lc-ms/ms  we identified proteins downregulated and upregulated by ifn treatment in hbv x protein (hbx)-stable and control cells. we found several ifn-stimulated genes downregulated by hbx  including trim22  which is known as an antiretroviral protein. we demonstrated that hbx suppresses the transcription of trim22 through a single cpg methylation in its 5′-utr  which further reduces the ifn regulatory factor-1 binding affinity  thereby suppressing the ifn-stimulated induction of trim22. conclusions we verified our findings using a mouse model  primary human hepatocytes and human liver tissues. our data elucidate a mechanism by which hbv evades the host innate immune system.
620,tak1-mediated autophagy and fatty acid oxidation prevent hepatosteatosis and tumorigenesis.,the map kinase kinase kinase tgfβ-activated kinase 1 (tak1) is activated by tlrs  il-1  tnf  and tgfβ and in turn activates ikk-nf-κb and jnk  which regulate cell survival  growth  tumorigenesis  and metabolism. tak1 signaling also upregulates ampk activity and autophagy. here  we investigated tak1-dependent regulation of autophagy  lipid metabolism  and tumorigenesis in the liver. fasted mice with hepatocyte-specific deletion of tak1 exhibited severe hepatosteatosis with increased mtorc1 activity and suppression of autophagy compared with their wt counterparts. tak1-deficient hepatocytes exhibited suppressed ampk activity and autophagy in response to starvation or metformin treatment; however  ectopic activation of ampk restored autophagy in these cells. peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor α (pparα) target genes and β-oxidation  which regulate hepatic lipid degradation  were also suppressed in hepatocytes lacking tak1. due to suppression of autophagy and β-oxidation  a high-fat diet challenge aggravated steatohepatitis in mice with hepatocyte-specific deletion of tak1. notably  inhibition of mtorc1 restored autophagy and pparα target gene expression in tak1-deficient livers  indicating that tak1 acts upstream of mtorc1. mtorc1 inhibition also suppressed spontaneous liver fibrosis and hepatocarcinogenesis in animals with hepatocyte-specific deletion of tak1. these data indicate that tak1 regulates hepatic lipid metabolism and tumorigenesis via the ampk/mtorc1 axis  affecting both autophagy and pparα activity.
622,crispr adaptation biases explain preference for acquisition of foreign dna,crispr-cas (clustered  regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats coupled with crispr-associated proteins) is a bacterial immunity system that protects against invading phages or plasmids. in the process of crispr adaptation  short pieces of dna ('spacers') are acquired from foreign elements and integrated into the crispr array. so far  it has remained a mystery how spacers are preferentially acquired from the foreign dna while the self chromosome is avoided. here we show that spacer acquisition is replication-dependent  and that dna breaks formed at stalled replication forks promote spacer acquisition. chromosomal hotspots of spacer acquisition were confined by chi sites  which are sequence octamers highly enriched on the bacterial chromosome  suggesting that these sites limit spacer acquisition from self dna. we further show that the avoidance of self is mediated by the recbcd double-stranded dna break repair complex. our results suggest that  in escherichia coli  acquisition of new spacers largely depends on recbcd-mediated processing of double-stranded dna breaks occurring primarily at replication forks  and that the preference for foreign dna is achieved through the higher density of chi sites on the self chromosome  in combination with the higher number of forks on the foreign dna. this model explains the strong preference to acquire spacers both from high copy plasmids and from phages.
624,prospective study of body fat distribution and the risk of endometrial cancer.,background epidemiologic studies have found that overall obesity is positively related to endometrial cancer (ec) risk. however  data assessing the association between body fat distribution and risk of ec are still limited. methods we followed 51 948 women who first reported waist circumference (wc) and hip circumference in 1986 in the nurses' health study. waist-to-hip ratio (whr) was calculated. results during 24 years of follow-up  449 incident invasive ec cases were diagnosed. in a multivariate analysis without adjusting for body mass index (bmi)  the relative risks (rrs) for ec comparing extreme categories were 2.44 (95% confidence interval [ci] 1.72-3.45) for wc and 1.69 (95% ci=1.20-2.40) for whr. however  after adjustment of bmi  those positive associations were substantially attenuated and no longer significant; rr=1.08 (95% ci=0.69-1.67) for wc and 1.15 (95% ci=0.81-1.64) for whr  respectively. conclusion in our prospective cohort study  we found no independent association between body fat distribution and the risk of ec after adjustment for bmi.
626,cd200r/cd200 inhibits osteoclastogenesis: new mechanism of osteoclast control by mesenchymal stem cells in human,bone homeostasis is maintained by the balance between bone-forming osteoblasts and bone-degrading osteoclasts. osteoblasts have a mesenchymal origin whereas osteoclasts belong to the myeloid lineage. osteoclast and osteoblast communication occurs through soluble factors secretion  cell-bone interaction and cell-cell contact  which modulate their activities. cd200 is an immunoglobulin superfamilly member expressed on various types of cells including mesenchymal stem cells (mscs). cd200 receptor (cd200r) is expressed on myeloid cells such as monocytes/macrophages. we assume that cd200 could be a new molecule involved in the control of osteoclastogenesis and could play a role in msc-osteoclast communication in humans. in this study  we demonstrated that soluble cd200 inhibited the differentiation of osteoclast precursors as well as their maturation in bone-resorbing cells in vitro. soluble cd200 did not modify the monocyte phenotype but inhibited the receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa-b ligand (rankl) signaling pathway as well as the gene expression of osteoclast markers such as osteoclast-associated receptor (oscar) and nuclear factor of activated t cells cytoplasmic 1 (nfatc1). moreover  mscs inhibited osteoclast formation  which depended on cell-cell contact and was associated with cd200 expression on the msc surface. our results clearly demonstrate that mscs  through the expression of cd200  play a major role in the regulation of bone resorption and bone physiology and that the cd200-cd200r couple could be a new target to control bone diseases.
628,defining community acquired pneumonia severity on presentation to hospital: an international derivation and validation study.,background in the assessment of severity in community acquired pneumonia (cap)  the modified british thoracic society (mbts) rule identifies patients with severe pneumonia but not patients who might be suitable for home management. a multicentre study was conducted to derive and validate a practical severity assessment model for stratifying adults hospitalised with cap into different management groups. methods data from three prospective studies of cap conducted in the uk  new zealand  and the netherlands were combined. a derivation cohort comprising 80% of the data was used to develop the model. prognostic variables were identified using multiple logistic regression with 30 day mortality as the outcome measure. the final model was tested against the validation cohort. results 1068 patients were studied (mean age 64 years  51.5% male  30 day mortality 9%). age >/=65 years (or 3.5  95% ci 1.6 to 8.0) and albumin <30 g/dl (or 4.7  95% ci 2.5 to 8.7) were independently associated with mortality over and above the mbts rule (or 5.2  95% ci 2.7 to 10). a six point score  one point for each of confusion  urea >7 mmol/l  respiratory rate >/=30/min  low systolic(<90 mm hg) or diastolic (</=60 mm hg) blood pressure)  age >/=65 years (curb-65 score) based on information available at initial hospital assessment  enabled patients to be stratified according to increasing risk of mortality: score 0  0.7%; score 1  3.2%; score 2  3%; score 3  17%; score 4  41.5% and score 5  57%. the validation cohort confirmed a similar pattern. conclusions a simple six point score based on confusion  urea  respiratory rate  blood pressure  and age can be used to stratify patients with cap into different management groups.
630,cancer-associated fibroblasts neutralize the anti-tumor effect of csf1 receptor blockade by inducing pmn-mdsc infiltration of tumors.,tumor-associated macrophages (tam) contribute to all aspects of tumor progression. use of csf1r inhibitors to target tam is therapeutically appealing  but has had very limited anti-tumor effects. here  we have identified the mechanism that limited the effect of csf1r targeted therapy. we demonstrated that carcinoma-associated fibroblasts (caf) are major sources of chemokines that recruit granulocytes to tumors. csf1 produced by tumor cells caused hdac2-mediated downregulation of granulocyte-specific chemokine expression in caf  which limited migration of these cells to tumors. treatment with csf1r inhibitors disrupted this crosstalk and triggered a profound increase in granulocyte recruitment to tumors. combining csf1r inhibitor with a cxcr2 antagonist blocked granulocyte infiltration of tumors and showed strong anti-tumor effects.
632,high somatic mutation and neoantigen burden are correlated with decreased progression-free survival in multiple myeloma,tumor-specific mutations can result in immunogenic neoantigens  both of which have been correlated with responsiveness to immune checkpoint inhibitors in highly mutagenic cancers. however  early results of single-agent checkpoint inhibitors in multiple myeloma (mm) have been underwhelming. therefore  we sought to understand the relationship between mutation and neoantigen landscape of mm patients and responsiveness to therapies. somatic mutation burden  neoantigen load  and response to therapy were determined using interim data from the mmrf commpass study (nct01454297) on 664 mm patients. in this population  the mean somatic and missense mutation loads were 405.84(s=608.55) and 63.90(s=95.88) mutations per patient  respectively. there was a positive linear relationship between mutation and neoantigen burdens (r2=0.862). the average predicted neoantigen load was 23.52(s=52.14) neoantigens with an average of 9.40(s=26.97) expressed neoantigens. survival analysis revealed significantly shorter progression-free survival (pfs) in patients with greater than average somatic missense mutation load (n=163  0.493 vs 0.726 2-year pfs  p=0.0023) and predicted expressed neoantigen load (n=214  0.555 vs 0.729 2-year pfs  p=0.0028). this pattern is maintained when stratified by disease stage and cytogenetic abnormalities. therefore  high mutation and neoantigen load are clinically relevant risk factors that negatively impact survival of mm patients under current standards of care.
634,who is where at risk for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease? a spatial epidemiological analysis of health insurance claims for copd in northeastern germany,background chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd) has a high prevalence rate in germany and a further increase is expected within the next years. although risk factors on an individual level are widely understood  only little is known about the spatial heterogeneity and population-based risk factors of copd. background knowledge about broader  population-based processes could help to plan the future provision of healthcare and prevention strategies more aligned to the expected demand. the aim of this study is to analyze how the prevalence of copd varies across northeastern germany on the smallest spatial-scale possible and to identify the location-specific population-based risk factors using health insurance claims of the aok nordost. methods to visualize the spatial distribution of copd prevalence at the level of municipalities and urban districts  we used the conditional autoregressive besag-york-mollié (bym) model. geographically weighted regression modelling (gwr) was applied to analyze the location-specific ecological risk factors for copd. results the sex- and age-adjusted prevalence of copd was 6.5% in 2012 and varied widely across northeastern germany. population-based risk factors consist of the proportions of insurants aged 65 and older  insurants with migration background  household size and area deprivation. the results of the gwr model revealed that the population at risk for copd varies considerably across northeastern germany. conclusion area deprivation has a direct and an indirect influence on the prevalence of copd. persons ageing in socially disadvantaged areas have a higher chance of developing copd  even when they are not necessarily directly affected by deprivation on an individual level. this underlines the importance of considering the impact of area deprivation on health for planning of healthcare. additionally  our results reveal that in some parts of the study area  insurants with migration background and persons living in multi-persons households are at elevated risk of copd.
636,extracellular vesicle isolation and characterization: toward clinical application.,two broad categories of extracellular vesicles (evs)  exosomes and shed microvesicles (smvs)  which differ in size distribution as well as protein and rna profiles  have been described. evs are known to play key roles in cell-cell communication  acting proximally as well as systemically. this review discusses the nature of ev subtypes  strategies for isolating evs from both cell-culture media and body fluids  and procedures for quantifying evs. we also discuss proteins selectively enriched in exosomes and smvs that have the potential for use as markers to discriminate between ev subtypes  as well as various applications of evs in clinical diagnosis.
638,speed limits for nonvesicular intracellular sterol transport.,sterol transport between the endoplasmic reticulum (er) and plasma membrane (pm) occurs by nonvesicular mechanisms requiring sterol transport proteins (stps). here we examine the idea that transport is enhanced at membrane contact sites where the er is closely apposed to the pm. we conclude that sterol desorption from the membrane  rather than stp-mediated diffusion  is rate limiting in the cellular context  so there is no apparent kinetic benefit to having stp-mediated sterol transfer occur at contact sites. contact sites may instead compartmentalize lipid synthesis or transport machinery  providing opportunities for regulation.
640,phase-plate cryo-em structure of a biased agonist-bound human glp-1 receptor–gs complex,the class b glucagon-like peptide-1 (glp-1) g protein-coupled receptor is a major target for the treatment of type 2 diabetes and obesity. endogenous and mimetic glp-1 peptides exhibit biased agonism—a difference in functional selectivity—that may provide improved therapeutic outcomes. here we describe the structure of the human glp-1 receptor in complex with the g protein-biased peptide exendin-p5 and a gαs heterotrimer  determined at a global resolution of 3.3 å. at the extracellular surface  the organization of extracellular loop 3 and proximal transmembrane segments differs between our exendin-p5-bound structure and previous glp-1-bound glp-1 receptor structure. at the intracellular face  there was a six-degree difference in the angle of the gαs–α5 helix engagement between structures  which was propagated across the g protein heterotrimer. in addition  the structures differed in the rate and extent of conformational reorganization of the gαs protein. our structure provides insights into the molecular basis of biased agonism.
642,association of toll-like receptor 4 on human monocyte subsets and vulnerability characteristics of coronary plaque as assessed by 64-slice multidetector computed tomography.,background although toll-like receptor 4 (tlr-4) is involved in monocyte activation in patients with accelerated forms of atherosclerosis  the relationship between the expression of tlr-4 on circulating monocytes and coronary plaque vulnerability has not previously been evaluated. we investigated this relationship using 64-slice multidetector computed tomography (mdct) in patients with stable angina pectoris (sap).methods and results:we enrolled 65 patients with sap who underwent mdct. three monocyte subsets (cd14++cd16-  cd14++cd16+  and cd14+cd16+) and expression of tlr-4 were measured by flow cytometry. intracoronary plaques were assessed by 64-slice mdct. we defined vulnerability of intracoronary plaques according to the presence of positive remodeling (remodeling index >1.05) and/or low ct attenuation (<35 hu). the circulating cd14++cd16+monocytes more frequently expressed tlr-4 than cd14++cd16-and cd14+cd16+monocytes (p<0.001). the relative proportion of the expression of tlr-4 on cd14++cd16+monocytes was significantly greater in patients with vulnerable plaque compared with those without (10.4 [4.1-14.5] % vs. 4.5 [2.8-7.8] %  p=0.012). in addition  the relative proportion of tlr-4 expression on cd14++cd16+monocytes positively correlated with the remodeling index (r=0.28  p=0.025) and negatively correlated with ct attenuation value (r=-0.31  p=0.013). conclusions upregulation of tlr-4 on cd14++cd16+monocytes might be associated with coronary plaque vulnerability in patients with sap.
644,thyroid hormone inhibits lung fibrosis in mice by improving epithelial mitochondrial function,thyroid hormone (th) is critical for the maintenance of cellular homeostasis during stress responses  but its role in lung fibrosis is unknown. here we found that the activity and expression of iodothyronine deiodinase 2 (dio2)  an enzyme that activates th  were higher in lungs from patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis than in control individuals and were correlated with disease severity. we also found that dio2-knockout mice exhibited enhanced bleomycin-induced lung fibrosis. aerosolized th delivery increased survival and resolved fibrosis in two models of pulmonary fibrosis in mice (intratracheal bleomycin and inducible tgf-β1). sobetirome  a th mimetic  also blunted bleomycin-induced lung fibrosis. after bleomycin-induced injury  th promoted mitochondrial biogenesis  improved mitochondrial bioenergetics and attenuated mitochondria-regulated apoptosis in alveolar epithelial cells both in vivo and in vitro. th did not blunt fibrosis in ppargc1a- or pink1-knockout mice  suggesting dependence on these pathways. we conclude that the antifibrotic properties of th are associated with protection of alveolar epithelial cells and restoration of mitochondrial function and that th may thus represent a potential therapy for pulmonary fibrosis.
646,evidence for a limit to human lifespan,driven by technological progress  human life expectancy has increased greatly since the nineteenth century. demographic evidence has revealed an ongoing reduction in old-age mortality and a rise of the maximum age at death  which may gradually extend human longevity. together with observations that lifespan in various animal species is flexible and can be increased by genetic or pharmaceutical intervention  these results have led to suggestions that longevity may not be subject to strict  species-specific genetic constraints. here  by analysing global demographic data  we show that improvements in survival with age tend to decline after age 100  and that the age at death of the world’s oldest person has not increased since the 1990s. our results strongly suggest that the maximum lifespan of humans is fixed and subject to natural constraints.
648,fast and accurate short read alignment with burrows–wheeler transform,motivation the enormous amount of short reads generated by the new dna sequencing technologies call for the development of fast and accurate read alignment programs. a first generation of hash table-based methods has been developed  including maq  which is accurate  feature rich and fast enough to align short reads from a single individual. however  maq does not support gapped alignment for single-end reads  which makes it unsuitable for alignment of longer reads where indels may occur frequently. the speed of maq is also a concern when the alignment is scaled up to the resequencing of hundreds of individuals. results we implemented burrows-wheeler alignment tool (bwa)  a new read alignment package that is based on backward search with burrows-wheeler transform (bwt)  to efficiently align short sequencing reads against a large reference sequence such as the human genome  allowing mismatches and gaps. bwa supports both base space reads  e.g. from illumina sequencing machines  and color space reads from ab solid machines. evaluations on both simulated and real data suggest that bwa is approximately 10-20x faster than maq  while achieving similar accuracy. in addition  bwa outputs alignment in the new standard sam (sequence alignment/map) format. variant calling and other downstream analyses after the alignment can be achieved with the open source samtools software package. availability http://maq.sourceforge.net.
650,chromatin modifying enzymes as modulators of reprogramming,generation of induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs) by somatic cell reprogramming involves global epigenetic remodelling. whereas several proteins are known to regulate chromatin marks associated with the distinct epigenetic states of cells before and after reprogramming  the role of specific chromatin-modifying enzymes in reprogramming remains to be determined. to address how chromatin-modifying proteins influence reprogramming  we used short hairpin rnas (shrnas) to target genes in dna and histone methylation pathways  and identified positive and negative modulators of ipsc generation. whereas inhibition of the core components of the polycomb repressive complex 1 and 2  including the histone 3 lysine 27 methyltransferase ezh2  reduced reprogramming efficiency  suppression of suv39h1  yy1 and dot1l enhanced reprogramming. specifically  inhibition of the h3k79 histone methyltransferase dot1l by shrna or a small molecule accelerated reprogramming  significantly increased the yield of ipsc colonies  and substituted for klf4 and c-myc (also known as myc). inhibition of dot1l early in the reprogramming process is associated with a marked increase in two alternative factors  nanog and lin28  which play essential functional roles in the enhancement of reprogramming. genome-wide analysis of h3k79me2 distribution revealed that fibroblast-specific genes associated with the epithelial to mesenchymal transition lose h3k79me2 in the initial phases of reprogramming. dot1l inhibition facilitates the loss of this mark from genes that are fated to be repressed in the pluripotent state. these findings implicate specific chromatin-modifying enzymes as barriers to or facilitators of reprogramming  and demonstrate how modulation of chromatin-modifying enzymes can be exploited to more efficiently generate ipscs with fewer exogenous transcription factors.
652,the transcriptional program  functional heterogeneity  and clinical targeting of mast cells,mast cells are unique tissue-resident immune cells that express an array of receptors that can be activated by several extracellular cues  including antigen-immunoglobulin e (ige) complexes  bacteria  viruses  cytokines  hormones  peptides  and drugs. mast cells constitute a small population in tissues  but their extraordinary ability to respond rapidly by releasing granule-stored and newly made mediators underpins their importance in health and disease. in this review  we document the biology of mast cells and introduce new concepts and opinions regarding their role in human diseases beyond ige-mediated allergic responses and antiparasitic functions. we bring to light recent discoveries and developments in mast cell research  including regulation of mast cell functions  differentiation  survival  and novel mouse models. finally  we highlight the current and future opportunities for therapeutic intervention of mast cell functions in inflammatory diseases.
654,cost-effectiveness comparison between topical silver sulfadiazine and enclosed silver dressing for partial-thickness burn treatment.,the standard treatment of partial-thickness burns includes topical silver products such as silver sulfadiazine (ssd) cream and enclosed dressings including silver-impregnated foam (mepilex ag; molnlycke health care  gothenburg  sweden) and silver-laden sheets (aquacel ag; convatec  skillman  nj). the current state of health care is limited by resources  with an emphasis on evidence-based outcomes and cost-effective treatments. this study includes a decision analysis with an incremental cost-utility ratio comparing enclosed silver dressings with ssd in partial-thickness burn patients with tbsa less than 20%. a comprehensive literature review was conducted to identify clinically relevant health states in partial-thickness burn patients. these health states include successful healing  infection  and noninfected delayed healing requiring either surgery or conservative management. the probabilities of these health states were combined with medicare cpt reimbursement codes (cost) and patient-derived utilities to fit into the decision model. utilities were obtained using a visual analog scale during patient interviews. expected cost and quality-adjusted life years (qalys) were calculated using the roll-back method. the incremental cost-utility ratio for enclosed silver dressing relative to ssd was $40 167.99/qaly. one-way sensitivity analysis of complication rates confirmed robustness of the model. assuming a maximum willingness to pay $50 000/qaly  the complication rate for ssd must be 22% or higher for enclosed silver dressing to be cost effective. by varying complication rates for ssd and enclosed silver dressings  the two-way sensitivity analysis demonstrated the cost effectiveness of using enclosed silver dressing at the majority of complication rates for both treatment modalities. enclosed silver dressings are a cost-effective means of treating partial thickness burns.
656,hepatitis c virus and blood transfusion: past and present risks.,the risk of hcv transmission by blood and blood products has been greatly reduced since the early 1980's. selection of non-remunerated donors  donor selection to prevent hiv transmission  initial surrogate testing in some regions  and introduction of anti-hcv testing have all contributed to this. alt surrogate testing has become obsolete since the introduction of anti-hcv testing. the residual risk of hcv transmission due to donations in the anti-hcv window period at present is about 1 in 100 000 transfusions of cellular products  and transmission of hcv by plasma products treated with modern inactivation methods such as solvent-detergent treatment  has not been reported. hemovigilance programmes  which are presently being installed  will provide more data on the safety of blood transfusion. introduction of hcv nucleic amplification technology (nat) as a quality control of manufacturing pools for plasma products or as a form of blood donor screening by minipools is anticipated in many european countries for the coming year. given industrial developments  nat testing of individual blood donations may become available within the next 2 years. hcv nat testing will further annihilate the residual risk  and the cost-effectiveness will become relatively low in comparison with other public health measures.
658,developing criteria for evaluation of geroprotectors as a key stage toward translation to the clinic,in the coming decades  a massive shift in the aging segment of the population will have major social and economic consequences around the world. one way to offset this increase is to expedite the development of geroprotectors  substances that slow aging  repair age-associated damage and extend healthy lifespan  or healthspan. while over 200 geroprotectors are now reported in model organisms and some are in human use for specific disease indications  the path toward determining whether they affect aging in humans remains obscure. translation to the clinic is hampered by multiple issues including absence of a common set of criteria to define  select  and classify these substances  given the complexity of the aging process and their enormous diversity in mechanism of action. translational research efforts would benefit from the formation of a scientific consensus on the following: the definition of 'geroprotector'  the selection criteria for geroprotectors  a comprehensive classification system  and an analytical model. here  we review current approaches to selection and put forth our own suggested selection criteria. standardizing selection of geroprotectors will streamline discovery and analysis of new candidates  saving time and cost involved in translation to clinic.
660,the global burden of dengue: an analysis from the global burden of disease study 2013.,background dengue is the most common arbovirus infection globally  but its burden is poorly quantified. we estimated dengue mortality  incidence  and burden for the global burden of disease study 2013. methods we modelled mortality from vital registration  verbal autopsy  and surveillance data using the cause of death ensemble modelling tool. we modelled incidence from officially reported cases  and adjusted our raw estimates for under-reporting based on published estimates of expansion factors. in total  we had 1780 country-years of mortality data from 130 countries  1636 country-years of dengue case reports from 76 countries  and expansion factor estimates for 14 countries. findings we estimated an average of 9221 dengue deaths per year between 1990 and 2013  increasing from a low of 8277 (95% uncertainty estimate 5353-10 649) in 1992  to a peak of 11 302 (6790-13 722) in 2010. this yielded a total of 576 900 (330 000-701 200) years of life lost to premature mortality attributable to dengue in 2013. the incidence of dengue increased greatly between 1990 and 2013  with the number of cases more than doubling every decade  from 8·3 million (3·3 million-17·2 million) apparent cases in 1990  to 58·4 million (23·6 million-121·9 million) apparent cases in 2013. when accounting for disability from moderate and severe acute dengue  and post-dengue chronic fatigue  566 000 (186 000-1 415 000) years lived with disability were attributable to dengue in 2013. considering fatal and non-fatal outcomes together  dengue was responsible for 1·14 million (0·73 million-1·98 million) disability-adjusted life-years in 2013. interpretation although lower than other estimates  our results offer more evidence that the true symptomatic incidence of dengue probably falls within the commonly cited range of 50 million to 100 million cases per year. our mortality estimates are lower than those presented elsewhere and should be considered in light of the totality of evidence suggesting that dengue mortality might  in fact  be substantially higher. funding bill & melinda gates foundation.
662,a mechanically active heterotypic e-cadherin/n-cadherin adhesion enables fibroblasts to drive cancer cell invasion,cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs) promote tumour invasion and metastasis. we show that cafs exert a physical force on cancer cells that enables their collective invasion. force transmission is mediated by a heterophilic adhesion involving n-cadherin at the caf membrane and e-cadherin at the cancer cell membrane. this adhesion is mechanically active; when subjected to force it triggers β-catenin recruitment and adhesion reinforcement dependent on α-catenin/vinculin interaction. impairment of e-cadherin/n-cadherin adhesion abrogates the ability of cafs to guide collective cell migration and blocks cancer cell invasion. n-cadherin also mediates repolarization of the cafs away from the cancer cells. in parallel  nectins and afadin are recruited to the cancer cell/caf interface and caf repolarization is afadin dependent. heterotypic junctions between cafs and cancer cells are observed in patient-derived material. together  our findings show that a mechanically active heterophilic adhesion between cafs and cancer cells enables cooperative tumour invasion.
664,gsds 2.0: an upgraded gene feature visualization server,unlabelled : visualizing genes' structure and annotated features helps biologists to investigate their function and evolution intuitively. the gene structure display server (gsds) has been widely used by more than 60 000 users since its first publication in 2007. here  we reported the upgraded gsds 2.0 with a newly designed interface  supports for more types of annotation features and formats  as well as an integrated visual editor for editing the generated figure. moreover  a user-specified phylogenetic tree can be added to facilitate further evolutionary analysis. the full source code is also available for downloading. availability and implementation web server and source code are freely available at http://gsds.cbi.pku.edu.cn. contact gaog@mail.cbi.pku.edu.cn or gsds@mail.cbi.pku.edu.cn   supplementary information supplementary data are available at bioinformatics online.
666,a case-mix classification system for explaining healthcare costs using administrative data in italy.,background the italian national health service (nhs) provides universal coverage to all citizens  granting primary and hospital care with a copayment system for outpatient and drug services. financing of local health trusts (lhts) is based on a capitation system adjusted only for age  gender and area of residence. we applied a risk-adjustment system (johns hopkins adjusted clinical groups system  acg® system) in order to explain health care costs using routinely collected administrative data in the veneto region (north-eastern italy). methods all residents in the veneto region were included in the study. the acg system was applied to classify the regional population based on the following information sources for the year 2015: hospital discharges  emergency room visits  chronic disease registry for copayment exemptions  ambulatory visits  medications  the home care database  and drug prescriptions. simple linear regressions were used to contrast an age-gender model to models incorporating more comprehensive risk measures aimed at predicting health care costs. results a simple age-gender model explained only 8% of the variance of 2015 total costs. adding diagnoses-related variables provided a 23% increase  while pharmacy based variables provided an additional 17% increase in explained variance. the adjusted r-squared of the comprehensive model was 6 times that of the simple age-gender model. conclusions acg system provides substantial improvement in predicting health care costs when compared to simple age-gender adjustments. aging itself is not the main determinant of the increase of health care costs  which is better explained by the accumulation of chronic conditions and the resulting multimorbidity.
668,parathyroid hormone directs bone marrow mesenchymal cell fate.,intermittent pth administration builds bone mass and prevents fractures  but its mechanism of action is unclear. we genetically deleted the pth/pthrp receptor (pth1r) in mesenchymal stem cells using prx1cre and found low bone formation  increased bone resorption  and high bone marrow adipose tissue (bmat). bone marrow adipocytes traced to prx1 and expressed classic adipogenic markers and high receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa b ligand (rankl) expression. rankl levels were also elevated in bone marrow supernatant and serum  but undetectable in other adipose depots. by cell sorting  pref1+rankl+ marrow progenitors were twice as great in mutant versus control marrow. intermittent pth administration to control mice reduced bmat significantly. a similar finding was noted in male osteoporotic patients. thus  marrow adipocytes exhibit osteogenic and adipogenic characteristics  are uniquely responsive to pth  and secrete rankl. these studies reveal an important mechanism for pth's therapeutic action through its ability to direct mesenchymal cell fate.
670,epstein-barr virus nuclear antigen 1 (ebna1) confers resistance to apoptosis in ebv-positive b-lymphoma cells through up-regulation of survivin.,resistance to apoptosis is an important component of the overall mechanism which drives the tumorigenic process. ebv is a ubiquitous human gamma-herpesvirus which preferentially establishes latent infection in viral infected b-lymphocytes. ebna1 is typically expressed in most forms of ebv-positive malignancies and is important for replication of the latent episome in concert with replication of the host cells. here  we investigate the effects of ebna1 on survivin up-regulation in ebv-infected human b-lymphoma cells. we present evidence which demonstrates that ebna1 forms a complex with sp1 or sp1-like proteins bound to their cis-element at the survivin promoter. this enhances the activity of the complex and up-regulates survivin. knockdown of survivin and ebna1 showed enhanced apoptosis in infected cells and thus supports a role for ebna1 in suppressing apoptosis in ebv-infected cells. here  we suggest that ebv encoded ebna1 can contribute to the oncogenic process by up-regulating the apoptosis suppressor protein  survivin in ebv-associated b-lymphoma cells.
672,sugar-sweetened beverages and weight gain in children and adults: a systematic review and meta-analysis.,background the relation between sugar-sweetened beverages (ssbs) and body weight remains controversial. objective we conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis to summarize the evidence in children and adults. design we searched pubmed  embase  and cochrane databases through march 2013 for prospective cohort studies and randomized controlled trials (rcts) that evaluated the ssb-weight relation. separate meta-analyses were conducted in children and adults and for cohorts and rcts by using random- and fixed-effects models. results thirty-two original articles were included in our meta-analyses: 20 in children (15 cohort studies  n = 25 745; 5 trials  n = 2772) and 12 in adults (7 cohort studies  n = 174 252; 5 trials  n = 292). in cohort studies  one daily serving increment of ssbs was associated with a 0.06 (95% ci: 0.02  0.10) and 0.05 (95% ci: 0.03  0.07)-unit increase in bmi in children and 0.22 kg (95% ci: 0.09  0.34 kg) and 0.12 kg (95% ci: 0.10  0.14 kg) weight gain in adults over 1 y in random- and fixed-effects models  respectively. rcts in children showed reductions in bmi gain when ssbs were reduced [random and fixed effects: -0.17 (95% ci: -0.39  0.05) and -0.12 (95% ci: -0.22  -0.2)]  whereas rcts in adults showed increases in body weight when ssbs were added (random and fixed effects: 0.85 kg; 95% ci: 0.50  1.20 kg). sensitivity analyses of rcts in children showed more pronounced benefits in preventing weight gain in ssb substitution trials (compared with school-based educational programs) and among overweight children (compared with normal-weight children). conclusion our systematic review and meta-analysis of prospective cohort studies and rcts provides evidence that ssb consumption promotes weight gain in children and adults.
674,epidemiology of sepsis and septic shock in critical care units: comparison between sepsis-2 and sepsis-3 populations using a national critical care database,background new sepsis and septic shock definitions could change the epidemiology of sepsis because of differences in criteria. we therefore compared the sepsis populations identified by the old and new definitions. methods we used a high-quality  national  intensive care unit (icu) database of 654 918 consecutive admissions to 189 adult icus in england  from january 2011 to december 2015. primary outcome was acute hospital mortality. we compared old (sepsis-2) and new (sepsis-3) incidence  outcomes  trends in outcomes  and predictive validity of sepsis and septic shock populations. results from among 197 724 sepsis-2 severe sepsis and 197 142 sepsis-3 sepsis cases  we identified 153 257 sepsis-2 septic shock and 39 262 sepsis-3 septic shock cases. the extrapolated population incidence of sepsis-3 sepsis and sepsis-3 septic shock was 101.8 and 19.3 per 100 000 person-years  respectively  in 2015. sepsis-2 severe sepsis and sepsis-3 sepsis had similar incidence  similar mortality and showed significant risk-adjusted improvements in mortality over time. sepsis-3 septic shock had a much higher acute physiology and chronic health evaluation ii (apache ii) score  greater mortality and no risk-adjusted trends in mortality improvement compared with sepsis-2 septic shock. icu admissions identified either as sepsis-3 sepsis or septic shock and as sepsis-2 severe sepsis or septic shock had significantly greater risk-adjusted odds of death compared with non-sepsis admissions (p<0.001). the predictive validity was greatest for sepsis-3 septic shock. conclusions in an icu database  compared with sepsis-2  sepsis-3 identifies a similar sepsis population with 92% overlap and much smaller septic shock population with improved predictive validity.
676,urine micrornas as biomarkers for bladder cancer: a diagnostic meta-analysis,background the diagnostic value of microrna (mirna) detection in patients with bladder cancer (bca) is controversial. we performed a diagnostic meta-analysis to evaluate current evidence on the use of mirna assays to diagnose bca. methods we systematically searched pubmed  embase  and web of science for studies published before march 31  2015. the pooled sensitivity  specificity  positive and negative likelihood ratios  diagnostic odds ratio  and area under the curve (auc) were calculated to evaluate the overall test performance. subgroup analyses were used to explore the between-study heterogeneity. deeks' funnel plot asymmetry test was used to test publication bias. we applied the software of revman 5.2 and stata 11.0 to the meta-analysis. results a total of 23 studies from nine articles were included in the meta-analysis  with a total of 719 patients and 494 controls. the pooled sensitivity and specificity were 0.75 (95% confidence interval [ci]  0.68-0.80) and 0.75 (95% ci  0.70-0.80)  respectively. the pooled positive likelihood ratio was 3.03 (95% ci  2.50-3.67); negative likelihood ratio was 0.33 (95% ci  0.27-0.42); and diagnostic odds ratio was 9.07 (95% ci  6.35-12.95). the pooled auc was 0.81 (95% ci  0.78-0.85). subgroup analyses indicated that the multiple mirnas assays and urine supernatant assays showed high accuracies in diagnosing bca. conclusion the mirna assays may serve as potential noninvasive diagnostic tool for the detection of bca. however  the clinical application of mirna assays for bca diagnosis still needs further validation by large prospective studies.
678,myc disrupts the circadian clock and metabolism in cancer cells.,the myc oncogene encodes myc  a transcription factor that binds the genome through sites termed e-boxes (5'-cacgtg-3')  which are identical to the binding sites of the heterodimeric clock-bmal1 master circadian transcription factor. hence  we hypothesized that ectopic myc expression perturbs the clock by deregulating e-box-driven components of the circadian network in cancer cells. we report here that deregulated expression of myc or n-myc disrupts the molecular clock in vitro by directly inducing rev-erbα to dampen expression and oscillation of bmal1  and this could be rescued by knockdown of rev-erb. rev-erbα expression predicts poor clinical outcome for n-myc-driven human neuroblastomas that have diminished bmal1 expression  and re-expression of ectopic bmal1 in neuroblastoma cell lines suppresses their clonogenicity. further  ectopic myc profoundly alters oscillation of glucose metabolism and perturbs glutaminolysis. our results demonstrate an unsuspected link between oncogenic transformation and circadian and metabolic dysrhythmia  which we surmise to be advantageous for cancer.
680,cadherin activity is required for activity-induced spine remodeling,neural activity induces the remodeling of pre- and postsynaptic membranes  which maintain their apposition through cell adhesion molecules. among them  n-cadherin is redistributed  undergoes activity-dependent conformational changes  and is required for synaptic plasticity. here  we show that depolarization induces the enlargement of the width of spine head  and that cadherin activity is essential for this synaptic rearrangement. dendritic spines visualized with green fluorescent protein in hippocampal neurons showed an expansion by the activation of ampa receptor  so that the synaptic apposition zone may be expanded. n-cadherin-venus fusion protein laterally dispersed along the expanding spine head. overexpression of dominant-negative forms of n-cadherin resulted in the abrogation of the spine expansion. inhibition of actin polymerization with cytochalasin d abolished the spine expansion. together  our data suggest that cadherin-based adhesion machinery coupled with the actin-cytoskeleton is critical for the remodeling of synaptic apposition zone.
682,overweight in celiac disease: prevalence  clinical characteristics  and effect of a gluten-free diet,background:it is well established that a minority of celiac patients present with “classic” symptoms due to malabsorption. however  few studies have focussed on the distribution of body mass index (bmi) in celiac populations and its relationship to clinical characteristics  or on its response to treatment. methods:we reviewed bmi measurements and other clinical and pathological characteristics from a database of 371 celiac patients diagnosed over a 10-yr period and seen by a single gastroenterologist. to assess response to gluten exclusion  we compared bmi at diagnosis and after 2 yr treatment in patients with serological support for dietary compliance. results:mean bmi was 24.6 kg/m2 (range 16.3–43.5). seventeen patients (5%) were underweight (bmi <18.5)  211 (57%) were normal  and 143 (39%) were overweight (bmi ≥25)  including 48 (13% of all patients) in the obese range (bmi ≥30.0). there was a significant association between low bmi and female gender  history of diarrhea  reduced hemoglobin concentration  reduced bone mineral density (bmd)  osteoporosis  and higher grades (subtotal/total) of villous atrophy. of patients compliant with a gluten-free diet  81% had gained weight after 2 yr  including 82% of initially overweight patients. conclusions:few celiac patients are underweight at diagnosis and a large minority is overweight; these are less likely to present with classical features of diarrhea and reduced hemoglobin. failed or delayed diagnosis of celiac disease may reflect lack of awareness of this large subgroup. the increase in weight of already overweight patients after dietary gluten exclusion is a potential cause of morbidity  and the gluten-free diet as conventionally prescribed needs to be modified accordingly.
684,glutamine supports pancreatic cancer growth through a kras-regulated metabolic pathway,cancer cells have metabolic dependencies that distinguish them from their normal counterparts. among these dependencies is an increased use of the amino acid glutamine to fuel anabolic processes. indeed  the spectrum of glutamine-dependent tumours and the mechanisms whereby glutamine supports cancer metabolism remain areas of active investigation. here we report the identification of a non-canonical pathway of glutamine use in human pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (pdac) cells that is required for tumour growth. whereas most cells use glutamate dehydrogenase (glud1) to convert glutamine-derived glutamate into α-ketoglutarate in the mitochondria to fuel the tricarboxylic acid cycle  pdac relies on a distinct pathway in which glutamine-derived aspartate is transported into the cytoplasm where it can be converted into oxaloacetate by aspartate transaminase (got1). subsequently  this oxaloacetate is converted into malate and then pyruvate  ostensibly increasing the nadph/nadp(+) ratio which can potentially maintain the cellular redox state. importantly  pdac cells are strongly dependent on this series of reactions  as glutamine deprivation or genetic inhibition of any enzyme in this pathway leads to an increase in reactive oxygen species and a reduction in reduced glutathione. moreover  knockdown of any component enzyme in this series of reactions also results in a pronounced suppression of pdac growth in vitro and in vivo. furthermore  we establish that the reprogramming of glutamine metabolism is mediated by oncogenic kras  the signature genetic alteration in pdac  through the transcriptional upregulation and repression of key metabolic enzymes in this pathway. the essentiality of this pathway in pdac and the fact that it is dispensable in normal cells may provide novel therapeutic approaches to treat these refractory tumours.
686,inhibition of apoptosis overcomes stage-related compatibility barriers to chimera formation in mouse embryos.,cell types more advanced in development than embryonic stem cells  such as episcs  fail to contribute to chimeras when injected into pre-implantation-stage blastocysts  apparently because the injected cells undergo apoptosis. here we show that transient promotion of cell survival through expression of the anti-apoptotic gene bcl2 enables episcs and sox17+ endoderm progenitors to integrate into blastocysts and contribute to chimeric embryos. upon injection into blastocyst  bcl2-expressing episcs contributed to all bodily tissues in chimeric animals while sox17+ endoderm progenitors specifically contributed in a region-specific fashion to endodermal tissues. in addition  bcl2 expression enabled rat episcs to contribute to mouse embryonic chimeras  thereby forming interspecies chimeras that could survive to adulthood. our system therefore provides a method to overcome cellular compatibility issues that typically restrict chimera formation. application of this type of approach could broaden the use of embryonic chimeras  including region-specific chimeras  for basic developmental biology research and regenerative medicine.
688,direct reprogramming of hepatic myofibroblasts into hepatocytes in vivo attenuates liver fibrosis.,direct induction of induced hepatocytes (iheps) from fibroblasts holds potential as a strategy for regenerative medicine but until now has only been shown in culture settings. here  we describe in vivo ihep formation using transcription factor induction and genetic fate tracing in mouse models of chronic liver disease. we show that ectopic expression of the transcription factors foxa3  gata4  hnf1a  and hnf4a from a polycistronic lentiviral vector converts mouse myofibroblasts into cells with a hepatocyte phenotype. in vivo expression of the same set of transcription factors from a p75 neurotrophin receptor peptide (p75ntrp)-tagged adenovirus enabled the generation of hepatocyte-like cells from myofibroblasts in fibrotic mouse livers and reduced liver fibrosis. we have therefore been able to convert pro-fibrogenic myofibroblasts in the liver into hepatocyte-like cells with positive functional benefits. this direct in vivo reprogramming approach may open new avenues for the treatment of chronic liver disease.
690,dnmt3a and dnmt3b associate with enhancers to regulate human epidermal stem cell homeostasis.,the genome-wide localization and function of endogenous dnmt3a and dnmt3b in adult stem cells are unknown. here  we show that in human epidermal stem cells  the two proteins bind in a histone h3k36me3-dependent manner to the most active enhancers and are required to produce their associated enhancer rnas. both proteins prefer super-enhancers associated to genes that either define the ectodermal lineage or establish the stem cell and differentiated states. however  dnmt3a and dnmt3b differ in their mechanisms of enhancer regulation: dnmt3a associates with p63 to maintain high levels of dna hydroxymethylation at the center of enhancers in a tet2-dependent manner  whereas dnmt3b promotes dna methylation along the body of the enhancer. depletion of either protein inactivates their target enhancers and profoundly affects epidermal stem cell function. altogether  we reveal novel functions for dnmt3a and dnmt3b at enhancers that could contribute to their roles in disease and tumorigenesis.
692,lipid desaturation is a metabolic marker and therapeutic target of ovarian cancer stem cells.,lack of sensitive single-cell analysis tools has limited the characterization of metabolic activity in cancer stem cells. by hyperspectral-stimulated raman scattering imaging of single living cells and mass spectrometry analysis of extracted lipids  we report here significantly increased levels of unsaturated lipids in ovarian cancer stem cells (cscs) as compared to non-cscs. higher lipid unsaturation levels were also detected in csc-enriched spheroids compared to monolayer cultures of ovarian cancer cell lines or primary cells. inhibition of lipid desaturases effectively eliminated cscs  suppressed sphere formation in vitro  and blocked tumor initiation capacity in vivo. mechanistically  we demonstrate that nuclear factor κb (nf-κb) directly regulates the expression levels of lipid desaturases  and inhibition of desaturases blocks nf-κb signaling. collectively  our findings reveal that increased lipid unsaturation is a metabolic marker for ovarian cscs and a target for csc-specific therapy.
694,novel functional sets of lipid-derived mediators with antiinflammatory actions generated from omega-3 fatty acids via cyclooxygenase 2–nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs and transcellular processing,aspirin therapy inhibits prostaglandin biosynthesis without directly acting on lipoxygenases  yet via acetylation of cyclooxygenase 2 (cox-2) it leads to bioactive lipoxins (lxs) epimeric at carbon 15 (15-epi-lx  also termed aspirin-triggered lx [atl]). here  we report that inflammatory exudates from mice treated with ω-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid and aspirin (asa) generate a novel array of bioactive lipid signals. human endothelial cells with upregulated cox-2 treated with asa converted c20:5 ω-3 to 18r-hydroxyeicosapentaenoic acid (hepe) and 15r-hepe. each was used by polymorphonuclear leukocytes to generate separate classes of novel trihydroxy-containing mediators  including 5-series 15r-lx5 and 5 12 18r-trihepe. these new compounds proved to be potent inhibitors of human polymorphonuclear leukocyte transendothelial migration and infiltration in vivo (atl analogue > 5 12 18r-trihepe > 18r-hepe). acetaminophen and indomethacin also permitted 18r-hepe and 15r-hepe generation with recombinant cox-2 as well as ω-5 and ω-9 oxygenations of other fatty acids that act on hematologic cells. these findings establish new transcellular routes for producing arrays of bioactive lipid mediators via cox-2–nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug–dependent oxygenations and cell–cell interactions that impact microinflammation. the generation of these and related compounds provides a novel mechanism(s) for the therapeutic benefits of ω-3 dietary supplementation  which may be important in inflammation  neoplasia  and vascular diseases.
696,6-sulphated chondroitins have a positive influence on axonal regeneration,chondroitin sulphate proteoglycans (cspgs) upregulated in the glial scar inhibit axon regeneration via their sulphated glycosaminoglycans (gags). chondroitin 6-sulphotransferase-1 (c6st-1) is upregulated after injury leading to an increase in 6-sulphated gag. in this study  we ask if this increase in 6-sulphated gag is responsible for the increased inhibition within the glial scar  or whether it represents a partial reversion to the permissive embryonic state dominated by 6-sulphated glycosaminoglycans (gags). using c6st-1 knockout mice (ko)  we studied post-injury changes in chondroitin sulphotransferase (csst) expression and the effect of chondroitin 6-sulphates on both central and peripheral axon regeneration. after cns injury  wild-type animals (wt) showed an increase in mrna for c6st-1  c6st-2 and c4st-1  but ko did not upregulate any cssts. after pns injury  while wt upregulated c6st-1  ko showed an upregulation of c6st-2. we examined regeneration of nigrostriatal axons  which demonstrate mild spontaneous axon regeneration in the wt. ko showed many fewer regenerating axons and more axonal retraction than wt. however  in the pns  repair of the median and ulnar nerves led to similar and normal levels of axon regeneration in both wt and ko. functional tests on plasticity after the repair also showed no evidence of enhanced plasticity in the ko. our results suggest that the upregulation of 6-sulphated gag after injury makes the extracellular matrix more permissive for axon regeneration  and that the balance of different css in the microenvironment around the lesion site is an important factor in determining the outcome of nervous system injury.
698,predictive performance of the quick sequential organ failure assessment score as a screening tool for sepsis  mortality  and intensive care unit admission in patients with febrile neutropenia,in sepsis-3  the quick sequential organ failure assessment (qsofa) score was developed as criteria to use for recognizing patients who may have poor outcomes. this study was performed to evaluate the predictive performance of the qsofa score as a screening tool for sepsis  mortality  and intensive care unit (icu) admission in patients with febrile neutropenia (fn). we also tried to compare its performance with that of the systemic inflammatory response syndrome (sirs) criteria and multinational association of supportive care in cancer (mascc) score for fn. we used a prospectively collected adult fn data registry. the qsofa and sirs scores were calculated retrospectively using the preexisting data. the primary outcome was the development of sepsis. the secondary outcomes were icu admission and 28-day mortality. of the 615 patients  100 developed sepsis  20 died  and 38 were admitted to icus. in multivariate analysis  qsofa was an independent factor predicting sepsis and icu admission. however  compared to the mascc score  the area under the receiver operating curve of qsofa was lower. qsofa showed a low sensitivity (0.14  0.2  and 0.23) but high specificity (0.98  0.97  and 0.97) in predicting sepsis  28-day mortality  and icu admission. performance of the qsofa score was inferior to that of the mascc score. the preexisting risk stratification tool is more useful for predicting outcomes in patients with fn.
700,genetic drift can compromise mitochondrial replacement by nuclear transfer in human oocytes.,replacement of mitochondria through nuclear transfer between oocytes of two different women has emerged recently as a strategy for preventing inheritance of mtdna diseases. although experiments in human oocytes have shown effective replacement  the consequences of small amounts of mtdna carryover have not been studied sufficiently. using human mitochondrial replacement stem cell lines  we show that  even though the low levels of heteroplasmy introduced into human oocytes by mitochondrial carryover during nuclear transfer often vanish  they can sometimes instead result in mtdna genotypic drift and reversion to the original genotype. comparison of cells with identical oocyte-derived nuclear dna but different mtdna shows that either mtdna genotype is compatible with the nucleus and that drift is independent of mitochondrial function. thus  although functional replacement of the mitochondrial genome is possible  even low levels of heteroplasmy can affect the stability of the mtdna genotype and compromise the efficacy of mitochondrial replacement.
702,vascular heterogeneity and specialization in development and disease,blood and lymphatic vessels pervade almost all body tissues and have numerous essential roles in physiology and disease. the inner lining of these networks is formed by a single layer of endothelial cells  which is specialized according to the needs of the tissue that it supplies. whereas the general mechanisms of blood and lymphatic vessel development are being defined with increasing molecular precision  studies of the processes of endothelial specialization remain mostly descriptive. recent insights from genetic animal models illuminate how endothelial cells interact with each other and with their tissue environment  providing paradigms for vessel type- and organ-specific endothelial differentiation. delineating these governing principles will be crucial for understanding how tissues develop and maintain  and how their function becomes abnormal in disease.
704,elevated red blood cell distribution width contributes to poor prognosis in patients undergoing resection for nonmetastatic rectal cancer,several studies have reported that elevated red blood cell distribution width (rdw) was associated with the poor prognosis of different kinds of cancers. the aim of this study was to investigate the prognostic role of rdw in patients undergoing resection for nonmetastatic rectal cancer. we retrospectively reviewed a database of 625 consecutive patients who underwent curative resection for nonmetastatic rectal cancer at our institution from january 2009 to december 2014. the cutoff value of rdw was calculated by receiver-operating characteristic curve. the results demonstrated that patients in high rdw-cv group had a lower overall survival (os) (p = .018) and disease-free survival (p = .004). we also observed that patients in high rdw-sd group were associated with significantly lower os (p = .033)  whereas the disease-free survival (dfs) was not significantly different (p = .179).in multivariate analysis  we found elevated rdw-cv was associated poor dfs (hazard ratio [hr] = 1.56  p = .010) and rdw-sd can predict a worse os (hr = 1.70  p = .009).we confirmed that elevated rdw can be an independently prognostic factor in patients undergoing resection for nonmetastatic rectal cancer. so more intervention or surveillance might be paid to the patients with nonmetastatic rectal cancer and elevated rdw values in the future.
706,aberrant pro-atrial natriuretic peptide/corin/natriuretic peptide receptor signaling is present in maternal vascular endothelium in preeclampsia.,objective corin is a serine protease that converts pro-atrial natriuretic peptide (pro-anp) to atrial natriuretic peptide (anp)  a cardiac hormone that regulates salt-water balance and blood pressure. anp is degraded by natriuretic peptide receptor (npr). this study was to determine if aberrant pro-anp/corin/npr signaling is present in maternal vascular system in preeclampsia. study design maternal venous blood was obtained from 197 pregnant women (84 normotensive  16 complicated with chronic hypertension (cht)  11 mild and 86 severe preeclampsia). plasma corin and pro-anp concentrations were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. maternal subcutaneous fat tissue was obtained from 12 pregnant women with cesarean section delivery (6 normotensive and 6 preeclampsia). vascular anp and its receptors npr-a  npr-b  and npr-c expression were examined by immunostaining of paraffin embedded subcutaneous fat tissue sections. results corin concentrations were significantly higher in mild (2.78 ± 0.67 ng/ml  p < .05) and severe (2.53 ± 0.18 ng/ml  p < .01) preeclampsia than in normotensive (1.58 ± 0.08 ng/ml) and cht (1.55 ± 0.20 ng/ml) groups. pro-anp concentrations were significantly higher in cht (1.59 ± 0.53 ng/ml  p < .05) and severe preeclampsia (1.42 ± 0.24 ng/ml  p < .01) than in normotensive (0.48 ± 0.06 ng/ml) and mild preeclampsia (0.52 ± 0.09 ng/ml) groups. anp and npr-b expression was undetectable in maternal vessels from normotensive and preeclamptic pregnancies  but reduced npr-a expression and increased npr-c expression was found in maternal vessel endothelium in preeclampsia. conclusions anp is a vasodilator and npr-c is a clearance receptor for anp. the finding of upregulation of npr-c expression suggests that circulating anp clearance or degradation is increased in preeclampsia. these results also suggest that pro-anp/corin/npr signaling is dominant in the vascular system in preeclampsia.
708,role of the parasite-derived prostaglandin d2 in the inhibition of epidermal langerhans cell migration during schistosomiasis infection,epidermal langerhans cells (lcs) play a key role in immune defense mechanisms and in numerous immunological disorders. in this report  we show that percutaneous infection of c57bl/6 mice with the helminth parasite schistosoma mansoni leads to the activation of lcs but  surprisingly  to their retention in the epidermis. moreover  using an experimental model of lc migration induced by tumor necrosis factor (tnf)-α  we show that parasites transiently impair the departure of lcs from the epidermis and their subsequent accumulation as dendritic cells in the draining lymph nodes. the inhibitory effect is mediated by soluble lipophilic factors released by the parasites and not by host-derived antiinflammatory cytokines  such as interleukin-10. we find that prostaglandin (pg)d2  but not the other major eicosanoids produced by the parasites  specifically impedes the tnf-α–triggered migration of lcs through the adenylate cyclase–coupled pgd2 receptor (dp receptor). moreover  the potent dp receptor antagonist bw a868c restores lc migration in infected mice. finally  in a model of contact allergen-induced lc migration  we show that activation of the dp receptor not only inhibits lc emigration but also dramatically reduces the contact hypersensitivity responses after challenge. taken together  we propose that the inhibition of lc migration could represent an additional stratagem for the schistosomes to escape the host immune system and that pgd2 may play a key role in the control of cutaneous immune responses.
710,beta adrenergic blockade decreases the immunomodulatory effects of social disruption stress,during physiological or psychological stress  catecholamines produced by the sympathetic nervous system (sns) regulate the immune system. previous studies report that the activation of β-adrenergic receptors (βars) mediates the actions of catecholamines and increases pro-inflammatory cytokine production in a number of different cell types. the impact of the sns on the immune modulation of social defeat has not been examined. the following studies were designed to determine whether sns activation during social disruption stress (sdr) influences anxiety-like behavior as well as the activation  priming  and glucocorticoid resistance of splenocytes after social stress. cd-1 mice were exposed to one  three  or six cycles of sdr and hplc analysis of the plasma and spleen revealed an increase in catecholamines. after six cycles of sdr the open field test was used to measure behaviors characteristic of anxiety and indicated that the social defeat induced increase in anxiety-like behavior was blocked by pre-treatment with the β-adrenergic antagonist propranolol. pre-treatment with the β-adrenergic antagonist propranolol did not significantly alter corticosterone levels indicating no difference in activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. in addition to anxiety-like behavior the sdr induced splenomegaly and increase in plasma il-6  tnfα  and mcp-1 were each reversed by pre-treatment with propranolol. furthermore  flow cytometric analysis of cells from propranolol pretreated mice reduced the sdr-induced increase in the percentage of cd11b(+) splenic macrophages and significantly decreased the expression of tlr2  tlr4  and cd86 on the surface of these cells. in addition  supernatants from 18h lps-stimulated ex vivo cultures of splenocytes from propranolol-treated sdr mice contained less il-6. likewise propranolol pre-treatment abrogated the glucocorticoid insensitivity of cd11b(+) cells ex vivo when compared to splenocytes from sdr vehicle-treated mice. together  this study demonstrates that the immune activation and priming effects of sdr result  in part  as a consequence of sns activation.
712,rank signals from cd4+3− inducer cells regulate development of aire-expressing epithelial cells in the thymic medulla,aire-expressing medullary thymic epithelial cells (mtecs) play a key role in preventing autoimmunity by expressing tissue-restricted antigens to help purge the emerging t cell receptor repertoire of self-reactive specificities. here we demonstrate a novel role for a cd4+3− inducer cell population  previously linked to development of organized secondary lymphoid structures and maintenance of t cell memory in the functional regulation of aire-mediated promiscuous gene expression in the thymus. cd4+3− cells are closely associated with mtecs in adult thymus  and in fetal thymus their appearance is temporally linked with the appearance of aire+ mtecs. we show that rankl signals from this cell promote the maturation of rank-expressing cd80−aire− mtec progenitors into cd80+aire+ mtecs  and that transplantation of rank-deficient thymic stroma into immunodeficient hosts induces autoimmunity. collectively  our data reveal cellular and molecular mechanisms leading to the generation of aire+ mtecs and highlight a previously unrecognized role for cd4+3−rankl+ inducer cells in intrathymic self-tolerance.
714,phosphorylation of janus kinase 1 (jak1) by amp-activated protein kinase (ampk) links energy sensing to anti-inflammatory signaling,adenosine 5′-monophosphate–activated protein kinase (ampk) is a pivotal regulator of metabolism at cellular and organismal levels. ampk also suppresses inflammation. we found that pharmacological activation of ampk rapidly inhibited the janus kinase (jak)–signal transducer and activator of transcription (stat) pathway in various cells. in vitro kinase assays revealed that ampk directly phosphorylated two residues (ser515 and ser518) within the src homology 2 domain of jak1. activation of ampk enhanced the interaction between jak1 and 14-3-3 proteins in cultured vascular endothelial cells and fibroblasts  an effect that required the presence of ser515 and ser518 and was abolished in cells lacking ampk catalytic subunits. mutation of ser515 and ser518 abolished ampk-mediated inhibition of jak-stat signaling stimulated by either the sil-6rα/il-6 complex or the expression of a constitutively active v658f-mutant jak1 in human fibrosarcoma cells. clinically used ampk activators metformin and salicylate enhanced the inhibitory phosphorylation of endogenous jak1 and inhibited stat3 phosphorylation in primary vascular endothelial cells. therefore  our findings reveal a mechanism by which jak1 function and inflammatory signaling may be suppressed in response to metabolic stress and provide a mechanistic rationale for the investigation of ampk activators in a range of diseases associated with enhanced activation of the jak-stat pathway.
716,psychobiological protective factors modifying the association between age and sexual health in men: findings from the men’s health 40+ study,sexual health severely decreases with age. for males older than 40 years  erectile dysfunction (ed) is the most common sexual disorder. although physical and psychological risk factors for ed have been identified  protective factors are yet to be determined. to date  no study has examined endocrine and psychosocial factors in parallel with regard to their modifying effect on the age-related increase in ed. two hundred and seventy-one self-reporting healthy men aged between 40 and 75 years provided both psychometric data on sexual function and a set of potential psychosocial protective factors  and saliva samples for the analysis of steroid hormones and proinflammatory cytokines. around 35% of the participants reported at least a mild form of ed. direct associations with ed were identified for perceived general health  emotional support  relationship quality  intimacy motivation but not for steroid hormones or proinflammatory markers. moderation analyses for the association between age and ed revealed positive effects for testosterone (t)  dehydroepiandrosterone (dhea)  perceived general health  emotional support  intimacy motivation  and a negative effect for interleukin-6 (all p < .05; f2 > .17). group differences between older men with and without ed emerged for t  dhea  and psychometric measures such as perceived general health  emotional support  satisfaction with life  and intimacy motivation (all p < .05; d > .3). both psychosocial and endocrine parameters moderated the association between age and sexual health. perceived general health  emotional support  intimacy motivation  and relationship quality emerged as psychosocial protective factors against ed. higher t and dhea and lower interleukin-6 levels also buffered against an age-related increase in ed.
718,structural basis for sequence-specific recognition of dna by tal effectors.,tal (transcription activator-like) effectors  secreted by phytopathogenic bacteria  recognize host dna sequences through a central domain of tandem repeats. each repeat comprises 33 to 35 conserved amino acids and targets a specific base pair by using two hypervariable residues [known as repeat variable diresidues (rvds)] at positions 12 and 13. here  we report the crystal structures of an 11.5-repeat tal effector in both dna-free and dna-bound states. each tal repeat comprises two helices connected by a short rvd-containing loop. the 11.5 repeats form a right-handed  superhelical structure that tracks along the sense strand of dna duplex  with rvds contacting the major groove. the 12th residue stabilizes the rvd loop  whereas the 13th residue makes a base-specific contact. understanding dna recognition by tal effectors may facilitate rational design of dna-binding proteins with biotechnological applications.
720,lipid hydroperoxide measurement by oxidation of fe2+ in the presence of xylenol orange. comparison with the tba assay and an iodometric method,study of the role of hydroperoxides and lipid peroxidation in disease requires simple and sensitive methods for direct hydroperoxide measurement. we report on a technique for measuring hydroperoxide which relies upon the rapid hydroperoxide-mediated oxidation of fe2+ under acidic conditions. fe3+ forms a chromophore with xylenol orange which absorbs strongly at 560 nm  yielding an apparent e560 (for h2o2  butyl hydroperoxide and cumene hydroperoxide) of 4.3×104 m−1 cm−1. the assay was validated in a study of liposomal lipid peroxidation and shown to give results comparable with those obtained by an iodometric method or by measuring conjugated dienes. the assay involving thiobarbituric acid  by comparison  underestimates lipid peroxidation and does not measure hydroperoxideper se.
722,the rate of change in declining steroid hormones: a new parameter of healthy aging in men?,research on healthy aging in men has increasingly focused on age-related hormonal changes. testosterone (t) decline is primarily investigated  while age-related changes in other sex steroids (dehydroepiandrosterone [dhea]  estradiol [e2]  progesterone [p]) are mostly neglected. an integrated hormone parameter reflecting aging processes in men has yet to be identified. 271 self-reporting healthy men between 40 and 75 provided both psychometric data and saliva samples for hormone analysis. correlation analysis between age and sex steroids revealed negative associations for the four sex steroids (t  dhea  e2  and p). principal component analysis including ten salivary analytes identified a principal component mainly unifying the variance of the four sex steroid hormones. subsequent principal component analysis including the four sex steroids extracted the principal component of declining steroid hormones (dsh). moderation analysis of the association between age and dsh revealed significant moderation effects for psychosocial factors such as depression  chronic stress and perceived general health. in conclusion  these results provide further evidence that sex steroids decline in aging men and that the integrated hormone parameter dsh and its rate of change can be used as biomarkers for healthy aging in men. furthermore  the negative association of age and dsh is moderated by psychosocial factors.
724,spliceosome assembly pathways for different types of alternative splicing converge during commitment to splice site pairing in the a complex.,differential splice site pairing establishes alternative splicing patterns resulting in the generation of multiple mrna isoforms. this process is carried out by the spliceosome  which is activated by a series of sequential structural rearrangements of its five core snrnps. to determine when splice sites become functionally paired  we carried out a series of kinetic trap experiments using pre-mrnas that undergo alternative 5' splice site selection or alternative exon inclusion. we show that commitment to splice site pairing in both cases occurs in the a complex  which is characterized by the atp-dependent association of the u2 snrnp with the branch point. interestingly  the timing of splice site pairing is independent of the intron or exon definition modes of splice site recognition. using the atp analog atpgammas  we showed that atp hydrolysis is required for splice site pairing independent from u2 snrnp binding to the pre-mrna. these results identify the a complex as the spliceosomal assembly step dedicated to splice site pairing and suggest that atp hydrolysis locks splice sites into a splicing pattern after stable u2 snrnp association to the branch point.
726,macropinocytosis of protein is an amino acid supply route in ras-transformed cells,macropinocytosis is a highly conserved endocytic process by which extracellular fluid and its contents are internalized into cells through large  heterogeneous vesicles known as macropinosomes. oncogenic ras proteins have been shown to stimulate macropinocytosis but the functional contribution of this uptake mechanism to the transformed phenotype remains unknown. here we show that ras-transformed cells use macropinocytosis to transport extracellular protein into the cell. the internalized protein undergoes proteolytic degradation  yielding amino acids including glutamine that can enter central carbon metabolism. accordingly  the dependence of ras-transformed cells on free extracellular glutamine for growth can be suppressed by the macropinocytic uptake of protein. consistent with macropinocytosis representing an important route of nutrient uptake in tumours  its pharmacological inhibition compromises the growth of ras-transformed pancreatic tumour xenografts. these results identify macropinocytosis as a mechanism by which cancer cells support their unique metabolic needs and point to the possible exploitation of this process in the design of anticancer therapies.
728,the emerging role of skeletal muscle extracellular matrix remodelling in obesity and exercise.,skeletal muscle extracellular matrix remodelling has been proposed as a new feature associated with obesity and metabolic dysfunction. exercise training improves muscle function in obesity  which may be mediated by regulatory effects on the muscle extracellular matrix. this review examined available literature on skeletal muscle extracellular matrix remodelling during obesity and the effects of exercise. a non-systematic literature review was performed on pubmed of publications from 1970 to 2015. a total of 37 studies from humans and animals were retained. studies reported overall increases in gene and protein expression of different types of collagen  growth factors and enzymatic regulators of the skeletal muscle extracellular matrix in obesity. only two studies investigated the effects of exercise on skeletal muscle extracellular matrix during obesity  with both suggesting a regulatory effect of exercise. the effects of exercise on muscle extracellular matrix seem to be influenced by the duration and type of exercise training with variable effects from a single session compared with a longer duration of exercise. more studies are needed to elucidate the mechanisms behind skeletal muscle extracellular matrix remodelling during obesity and the effects of exercise.
730,nucleotide sequence of an avian sarcoma virus oncogene (src) and proposed amino acid sequence for gene product,the transforming gene (src) of avian sarcoma virus (asv) and adjacent regions of the viral genome have been isolated by molecular cloning of viral dna. their nucleotide sequence encompasses the whole of src and the portion of the gene env that encodes gp 37  one of two glycoproteins found in the viral envelope. src encodes a single  hydrophobic protein with structural features that conform to previous descriptions of the gene product (pp60src). it appears that a single viral protein is responsible for both the initiation and maintenance of neoplastic transformation by avian sarcoma virus. neither src nor its product bear any obvious structural relationship to several other viral oncogenes and their encoded proteins. src is flanked by a repeated nucleotide sequence that may facilitate frequent deletion of the gene from the viral genome.
732,para-aortic splanchnopleura from early mouse embryos contains b1a cell progenitors,definitive erythropoiesis in birds originates from stem cells that emerge in the splanchnopleural mesoderm near the embryonic aorta1–4. the yolk sac is still generally held to be the unique provider of haematopoietic stem cells during mammalian ontogeny5  although there may be an alternative intraembryonic source of stem cells in the mouse fetus6 7. here we search for a possible non-yolk-sac source of stem cells by grafting intraembryonic splanchnopleura from 10- to 18-somite mouse embryos into adult immunodeficient scid mice. we find significant amounts of donor-derived serum igm  normal numbers of igm-secreting plasma cells  and the bla (igma brightb220dullcd5+) cell subset to be fully reconstituted by donor progenitors 3 to 6 months after engraftment. the haematogenic capacity revealed in our experiments is present in a previously unrecognized site  the earliest described in the embryo  12 hours before fetal liver colonization.
734,mhc class ii interaction with cd4 mediated by a region analogous to the mhc class i binding site for cd8,interactions between major histocompatibility complex (mhc) molecules and the cd4 or cds coreceptors have a major role in intrathymic t-cell selection1. on mature t cells  each of these two glycoproteins is associated with a class-specific bias in mhc molecule recognition by the t-cell receptor. cd4+ t cells respond to antigen in association with mhc class ii molecules and cd8+ t cells respond to antigen in association with mhc class i molecules. physical interaction between the cd4/mhc class ii molecules and cd8/mhc class i molecules has been demonstrated by cell adhesion assay2–5  and a binding site for cds on class i has been identified6 7. here we demonstrate that a region of the mhc class iiβ-chain β2 domain  structurally analogous to the cds-binding loop in the mhc class i α3 domain  is critical for function with both mouse and human cd4.
736,single-cell proteomic analysis of s. cerevisiae reveals the architecture of biological noise,a major goal of biology is to provide a quantitative description of cellular behaviour. this task  however  has been hampered by the difficulty in measuring protein abundances and their variation. here we present a strategy that pairs high-throughput flow cytometry and a library of gfp-tagged yeast strains to monitor rapidly and precisely protein levels at single-cell resolution. bulk protein abundance measurements of >2 500 proteins in rich and minimal media provide a detailed view of the cellular response to these conditions  and capture many changes not observed by dna microarray analyses. our single-cell data argue that noise in protein expression is dominated by the stochastic production/destruction of messenger rnas. beyond this global trend  there are dramatic protein-specific differences in noise that are strongly correlated with a protein's mode of transcription and its function. for example  proteins that respond to environmental changes are noisy whereas those involved in protein synthesis are quiet. thus  these studies reveal a remarkable structure to biological noise and suggest that protein noise levels have been selected to reflect the costs and potential benefits of this variation.
738,inflammasome-mediated dysbiosis regulates progression of nafld and obesity,non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (nafld) is the hepatic manifestation of metabolic syndrome and the leading cause of chronic liver disease in the western world. twenty per cent of nafld individuals develop chronic hepatic inflammation (non-alcoholic steatohepatitis  nash) associated with cirrhosis  portal hypertension and hepatocellular carcinoma  yet the causes of progression from nafld to nash remain obscure. here  we show that the nlrp6 and nlrp3 inflammasomes and the effector protein il-18 negatively regulate nafld/nash progression  as well as multiple aspects of metabolic syndrome via modulation of the gut microbiota. different mouse models reveal that inflammasome-deficiency-associated changes in the configuration of the gut microbiota are associated with exacerbated hepatic steatosis and inflammation through influx of tlr4 and tlr9 agonists into the portal circulation  leading to enhanced hepatic tumour-necrosis factor (tnf)-α expression that drives nash progression. furthermore  co-housing of inflammasome-deficient mice with wild-type mice results in exacerbation of hepatic steatosis and obesity. thus  altered interactions between the gut microbiota and the host  produced by defective nlrp3 and nlrp6 inflammasome sensing  may govern the rate of progression of multiple metabolic syndrome-associated abnormalities  highlighting the central role of the microbiota in the pathogenesis of heretofore seemingly unrelated systemic auto-inflammatory and metabolic disorders.
740,the human mitochondrial dead-box protein ddx28 resides in rna granules and functions in mitoribosome assembly.,human mitochondrial ribosomes are specialized in the synthesis of 13 proteins  which are fundamental components of the oxidative phosphorylation system. the pathway of mitoribosome biogenesis  the compartmentalization of the process  and factors involved remain largely unknown. here  we have identified the dead-box protein ddx28 as an rna granule component essential for the biogenesis of the mitoribosome large subunit (mt-lsu). ddx28 interacts with the 16s rrna and the mt-lsu. rnai-mediated ddx28 silencing in hek293t cells does not affect mitochondrial mrna stability or 16s rrna processing or modification. however  it leads to reduced levels of 16s rrna and mt-lsu proteins  impaired mt-lsu assembly  deeply attenuated mitochondrial protein synthesis  and consequent failure to assemble oxidative phosphorylation complexes. our findings identify ddx28 as essential during the early stages of mitoribosome mt-lsu biogenesis  a process that takes place mainly near the mitochondrial nucleoids  in the compartment defined by the rna granules.
742,driver mutations in histone h3.3 and chromatin remodelling genes in paediatric glioblastoma,glioblastoma multiforme (gbm) is a lethal brain tumour in adults and children. however  dna copy number and gene expression signatures indicate differences between adult and paediatric cases. to explore the genetic events underlying this distinction  we sequenced the exomes of 48 paediatric gbm samples. somatic mutations in the h3.3-atrx-daxx chromatin remodelling pathway were identified in 44% of tumours (21/48). recurrent mutations in h3f3a  which encodes the replication-independent histone 3 variant h3.3  were observed in 31% of tumours  and led to amino acid substitutions at two critical positions within the histone tail (k27m  g34r/g34v) involved in key regulatory post-translational modifications. mutations in atrx (α-thalassaemia/mental retardation syndrome x-linked) and daxx (death-domain associated protein)  encoding two subunits of a chromatin remodelling complex required for h3.3 incorporation at pericentric heterochromatin and telomeres  were identified in 31% of samples overall  and in 100% of tumours harbouring a g34r or g34v h3.3 mutation. somatic tp53 mutations were identified in 54% of all cases  and in 86% of samples with h3f3a and/or atrx mutations. screening of a large cohort of gliomas of various grades and histologies (n = 784) showed h3f3a mutations to be specific to gbm and highly prevalent in children and young adults. furthermore  the presence of h3f3a/atrx-daxx/tp53 mutations was strongly associated with alternative lengthening of telomeres and specific gene expression profiles. this is  to our knowledge  the first report to highlight recurrent mutations in a regulatory histone in humans  and our data suggest that defects of the chromatin architecture underlie paediatric and young adult gbm pathogenesis.
744,alternatively activated macrophages produce catecholamines to sustain adaptive thermogenesis,all homeotherms use thermogenesis to maintain their core body temperature  ensuring that cellular functions and physiological processes can continue in cold environments. in the prevailing model of thermogenesis  when the hypothalamus senses cold temperatures it triggers sympathetic discharge  resulting in the release of noradrenaline in brown adipose tissue and white adipose tissue. acting via the β(3)-adrenergic receptors  noradrenaline induces lipolysis in white adipocytes  whereas it stimulates the expression of thermogenic genes  such as ppar-γ coactivator 1a (ppargc1a)  uncoupling protein 1 (ucp1) and acyl-coa synthetase long-chain family member 1 (acsl1)  in brown adipocytes. however  the precise nature of all the cell types involved in this efferent loop is not well established. here we report in mice an unexpected requirement for the interleukin-4 (il-4)-stimulated program of alternative macrophage activation in adaptive thermogenesis. exposure to cold temperature rapidly promoted alternative activation of adipose tissue macrophages  which secrete catecholamines to induce thermogenic gene expression in brown adipose tissue and lipolysis in white adipose tissue. absence of alternatively activated macrophages impaired metabolic adaptations to cold  whereas administration of il-4 increased thermogenic gene expression  fatty acid mobilization and energy expenditure  all in a macrophage-dependent manner. thus  we have discovered a role for alternatively activated macrophages in the orchestration of an important mammalian stress response  the response to cold.
746,light acts directly on organs and cells in culture to set the vertebrate circadian clock.,the expression of clock genes in vertebrates is widespread and not restricted to classical clock structures. the expression of the clock gene in zebrafish shows a strong circadian oscillation in many tissues in vivo and in culture  showing that endogenous oscillators exist in peripheral organs. a defining feature of circadian clocks is that they can be set or entrained to local time  usually by the environmental light-dark cycle. an important question is whether peripheral oscillators are entrained to local time by signals from central pacemakers such as the eyes or are themselves directly light-responsive. here we show that the peripheral organ clocks of zebrafish are set by light-dark cycles in culture. we also show that a zebrafish-derived cell line contains a circadian oscillator  which is also directly light entrained.
748,evolution of novel cooperative swarming in the bacterium myxococcus xanthus,cooperation among individuals is necessary for evolutionary transitions to higher levels of biological organization. in such transitions  groups of individuals at one level (such as single cells) cooperate to form selective units at a higher level (such as multicellular organisms). though the evolution of cooperation is difficult to observe directly in higher eukaryotes  microorganisms do offer such an opportunity. here we report the evolution of novel cooperative behaviour in experimental lineages of the bacterium myxococcus xanthus. wild-type strains of m. xanthus exhibit socially dependent swarming across soft surfaces by a mechanism known as ‘s-motility’ that requires the presence of extracellular type iv pili. in lineages of m. xanthus unable to make pili  a new mechanistic basis for cooperative swarming evolved. evolved swarming is mediated  at least in part  by enhanced production of an extracellular fibril matrix that binds cells—and their evolutionary interests—together. though costly to individuals  fibril production greatly enhanced population expansion in groups of interconnected cells. these results show that fundamental transitions to primitive cooperation can readily occur in bacteria.
750,bh1 and bh2 domains of bcl-2 are required for inhibition of apoptosis and heterodimerization with bax,bcl-2 was isolated from the t(14;18) chromosomal breakpoint in follicular b-cell lymphoma1–3. bcl-2 has the unique oncogenic role of extending cell survival by inhibiting a variety of apoptotic deaths4–13. an emerging family of bcl-2 -related proteins share two highly conserved regions14–20 referred to here as bcl-2 homology 1 and 2 (bh1 and bh2) domains (fig. 1). this includes bax which heterodimerizes with bcl-2 and when overexpressed counteracts bcl-214. we report here that site-specific mutagenesis of bcl-2 establishes the two domains as novel dimerization motifs. substitu-tion of gly 145 in bhl domain or trp 188 in bh2 domain completely abrogated bcl-2's death-repressor activity in inter-leukin-3 deprivation  γ-irradiation and glucocorticoid-induced apoptosis. mutations that affected bcl-2's function also disrupted its heterodimerization with bax  yet still permitted bcl-2 homo-dimerization. these results establish a functional role for the bh1 and bh2 domains and suggest bcl-2 exerts its action through heterodimerization with bax.
752,the tor signalling pathway controls nuclear localization of nutrient-regulated transcription factors.,the rapamycin-sensitive tor signalling pathway in saccharomyces cerevisiae activates a cell-growth program in response to nutrients such as nitrogen and carbon. the tor1 and tor2 kinases (tor) control cytoplasmic protein synthesis and degradation through the conserved tap42 protein. upon phosphorylation by tor  tap42 binds and possibly inhibits type 2a and type-2a-related phosphatases; however  the mechanism by which tor controls nuclear events such as global repression of starvation-specific transcription is unknown. here we show that tor prevents transcription of genes expressed upon nitrogen limitation by promoting the association of the gata transcription factor gln3 with the cytoplasmic protein ure2. the binding of gln3 to ure2 requires tor-dependent phosphorylation of gln3. phosphorylation and cytoplasmic retention of gln3 are also dependent on the tor effector tap42  and are antagonized by the type-2a-related phosphatase sit4. tor inhibits expression of carbon-source-regulated genes by stimulating the binding of the transcriptional activators msn2 and msn4 to the cytoplasmic 14-3-3 protein bmh2. thus  the tor signalling pathway broadly controls nutrient metabolism by sequestering several transcription factors in the cytoplasm.
754,pancreatic cancer genomes reveal aberrations in axon guidance pathway genes,pancreatic cancer is a highly lethal malignancy with few effective therapies. we performed exome sequencing and copy number analysis to define genomic aberrations in a prospectively accrued clinical cohort (n = 142) of early (stage i and ii) sporadic pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. detailed analysis of 99 informative tumours identified substantial heterogeneity with 2 016 non-silent mutations and 1 628 copy-number variations. we define 16 significantly mutated genes  reaffirming known mutations (kras  tp53  cdkn2a  smad4  mll3  tgfbr2  arid1a and sf3b1)  and uncover novel mutated genes including additional genes involved in chromatin modification (epc1 and arid2)  dna damage repair (atm) and other mechanisms (zim2  map2k4  nalcn  slc16a4 and magea6). integrative analysis with in vitro functional data and animal models provided supportive evidence for potential roles for these genetic aberrations in carcinogenesis. pathway-based analysis of recurrently mutated genes recapitulated clustering in core signalling pathways in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma  and identified new mutated genes in each pathway. we also identified frequent and diverse somatic aberrations in genes described traditionally as embryonic regulators of axon guidance  particularly slit/robo signalling  which was also evident in murine sleeping beauty transposon-mediated somatic mutagenesis models of pancreatic cancer  providing further supportive evidence for the potential involvement of axon guidance genes in pancreatic carcinogenesis.
756,continuous single-cell imaging of blood generation from haemogenic endothelium,despite decades of research  the identity of the cells generating the first haematopoietic cells in mammalian embryos is unknown. indeed  whether blood cells arise from mesodermal cells  mesenchymal progenitors  bipotent endothelial–haematopoietic precursors or haemogenic endothelial cells remains controversial. proximity of endothelial and blood cells at sites of embryonic haematopoiesis  as well as their similar gene expression  led to the hypothesis of the endothelium generating blood. however  owing to lacking technology it has been impossible to observe blood cell emergence continuously at the single-cell level  and the postulated existence of haemogenic endothelial cells remains disputed. here  using new imaging and cell-tracking methods  we show that embryonic endothelial cells can be haemogenic. by continuous long-term single-cell observation of mouse mesodermal cells generating endothelial cell and blood colonies  it was possible to detect haemogenic endothelial cells giving rise to blood cells. living endothelial and haematopoietic cells were identified by simultaneous detection of morphology and multiple molecular and functional markers. detachment of nascent blood cells from endothelium is not directly linked to asymmetric cell division  and haemogenic endothelial cells are specified from cells already expressing endothelial markers. these results improve our understanding of the developmental origin of mammalian blood and the potential generation of haematopoietic stem cells from embryonic stem cells.
758,chloroquine resistance not linked to mdr-like genes in a plasmodium falciparum cross,chloroquine is thought to act against falciparum malaria by accumulating in the acid vesicles of the parasite and interfering with their function14. parasites resistant to chloroquine expel the drug rapidly in an unaltered form  thereby reducing levels of accumulation in the vesicles5. the discovery that verapamil partially reverses chloroquine resistance in vitro 6 led to the proposal that efflux may involve an atp-driven p-glycoprotein pump similar to that in mammalian multidrug-resistant (mdr) tumor cell lines. indeed  plasmodium falciparum contains at least two mdr-like genes7 8  one of which has been suggested to confer the chloroquine resistant (cqr) phenotype7 9 10. to determine if either of these genes is linked to chloroquine resistance  we performed a genetic cross between cqr and chloroquine-susceptible (cqs) clones of p. falciparum. examination of 16 independent recombinant progeny indicated that the rapid efflux phenotype is controlled by a single gene or a closely linked group of genes. but  there was no linkage between the rapid efflux  cqr phenotype and either of the mdr-like p. falciparum genes or amplification of those genes. these data indicate that the genetic locus governing chloroquine efflux and resistance is independent of the known mdr-like genes.
760,surface mechanics mediate pattern formation in the developing retina,pattern formation of biological structures involves organizing different types of cells into a spatial configuration. in this study  we investigate the physical basis of biological patterning of the drosophila retina in vivo. we demonstrate that e- and n-cadherins mediate apical adhesion between retina epithelial cells. differential expression of n-cadherin within a sub-group of retinal cells (cone cells) causes them to form an overall shape that minimizes their surface contact with surrounding cells. the cells within this group  in both normal and experimentally manipulated conditions  pack together in the same way as soap bubbles do. the shaping of the cone cell group and packing of its components precisely imitate the physical tendency for surfaces to be minimized. thus  simple patterned expression of n-cadherin results in a complex spatial pattern of cells owing to cellular surface mechanics.
762,specific interference by ingested dsrna.,a genetic interference phenomenon in the nematode caenorhabditis elegans has been described in which expression of an individual gene can be specifically reduced by microinjecting a corresponding fragment of double-stranded (ds) rna. one striking feature of this process is a spreading effect: interference in a broad region of the animal is observed following the injection of dsrna into the extracellular body cavity. here we show that c. elegans can respond in a gene-specific manner to dsrna encountered in the environment. c. elegans normally feed on bacteria  ingesting and grinding them in the pharynx and subsequently absorbing bacterial contents in the gut. we find that escherichia coli bacteria expressing dsrnas can confer specific interference effects on the nematode larvae that feed on them.
764,control of cortical gaba circuitry development by nrg1 and erbb4 signalling,schizophrenia is a complex disorder that interferes with the function of several brain systems required for cognition and normal social behaviour. although the most notable clinical aspects of the disease only become apparent during late adolescence or early adulthood  many lines of evidence suggest that schizophrenia is a neurodevelopmental disorder with a strong genetic component. several independent studies have identified neuregulin 1 (nrg1) and its receptor erbb4 as important risk genes for schizophrenia  although their precise role in the disease process remains unknown. here we show that nrg1 and erbb4 signalling controls the development of inhibitory circuitries in the mammalian cerebral cortex by cell-autonomously regulating the connectivity of specific gaba (γ-aminobutyric acid)-containing interneurons. in contrast to the prevalent view  which supports a role for these genes in the formation and function of excitatory synapses between pyramidal cells  we found that erbb4 expression in the mouse neocortex and hippocampus is largely confined to certain classes of interneurons. in particular  erbb4 is expressed by many parvalbumin-expressing chandelier and basket cells  where it localizes to axon terminals and postsynaptic densities receiving glutamatergic input. gain- and loss-of-function experiments  both in vitro and in vivo  demonstrate that erbb4 cell-autonomously promotes the formation of axo-axonic inhibitory synapses over pyramidal cells  and that this function is probably mediated by nrg1. in addition  erbb4 expression in gaba-containing interneurons regulates the formation of excitatory synapses onto the dendrites of these cells. by contrast  erbb4 is dispensable for excitatory transmission between pyramidal neurons. altogether  our results indicate that nrg1 and erbb4 signalling is required for the wiring of gaba-mediated circuits in the postnatal cortex  providing a new perspective to the involvement of these genes in the aetiology of schizophrenia.
766,nonlinear elasticity in biological gels,unlike most synthetic materials  biological materials often stiffen as they are deformed. this nonlinear elastic response  critical for the physiological function of some tissues  has been documented since at least the 19th century  but the molecular structure and the design principles responsible for it are unknown. current models for this response require geometrically complex ordered structures unique to each material. in this article we show that a much simpler molecular theory accounts for strain stiffening in a wide range of molecularly distinct biopolymer gels formed from purified cytoskeletal and extracellular proteins. this theory shows that systems of semi-flexible chains such as filamentous proteins arranged in an open crosslinked meshwork invariably stiffen at low strains without the need for a specific architecture or multiple elements with different intrinsic stiffnesses.
768,broad antiretroviral defence by human apobec3g through lethal editing of nascent reverse transcripts,viral replication usually requires that innate intracellular lines of defence be overcome  a task usually accomplished by specialized viral gene products. the virion infectivity factor (vif) protein of human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) is required during the late stages of viral production to counter the antiviral activity of apobec3g (apolipoprotein b mrna-editing enzyme  catalytic polypeptide-like 3g; also known as cem15)  a protein expressed notably in human t lymphocytes. when produced in the presence of apobec3g  vif-defective virus is non-infectious. apobec3g is closely related to apobec1  the central component of an rna-editing complex that deaminates a cytosine residue in apob messenger rna. apobec family members also have potent dna mutator activity through dc deamination; however  whether the editing potential of apobec3g has any relevance to hiv inhibition is unknown. here  we demonstrate that it does  as apobec3g exerts its antiviral effect during reverse transcription to trigger g-to-a hypermutation in the nascent retroviral dna. we also find that apobec3g can act on a broad range of retroviruses in addition to hiv  suggesting that hypermutation by editing is a general innate defence mechanism against this important group of pathogens.
770,congenital leptin deficiency is associated with severe early-onset obesity in humans.,the extreme obesity of the obese (ob/ob) mouse is attributable to mutations in the gene encoding leptin  an adipocyte-specific secreted protein which has profound effects on appetite and energy expenditure. we know of no equivalent evidence regarding leptin's role in the control of fat mass in humans. we have examined two severely obese children who are members of the same highly consanguineous pedigree. their serum leptin levels were very low despite their markedly elevated fat mass and  in both  a homozygous frame-shift mutation involving the deletion of a single guanine nucleotide in codon 133 of the gene for leptin was found. the severe obesity found in these congenitally leptin-deficient subjects provides the first genetic evidence that leptin is an important regulator of energy balance in humans.
772,a keratin cytoskeletal protein regulates protein synthesis and epithelial cell growth,cell growth  an increase in mass and size  is a highly regulated cellular event. the akt/mtor (mammalian target of rapamycin) signalling pathway has a central role in the control of protein synthesis and thus the growth of cells  tissues and organisms. a striking example of a physiological context requiring rapid cell growth is tissue repair in response to injury. here we show that keratin 17  an intermediate filament protein rapidly induced in wounded stratified epithelia  regulates cell growth through binding to the adaptor protein 14-3-3σ. mouse skin keratinocytes lacking keratin 17 (ref. 4) show depressed protein translation and are of smaller size  correlating with decreased akt/mtor signalling activity. other signalling kinases have normal activity  pointing to the specificity of this defect. two amino acid residues located in the amino-terminal head domain of keratin 17 are required for the serum-dependent relocalization of 14-3-3σ from the nucleus to the cytoplasm  and for the concomitant stimulation of mtor activity and cell growth. these findings reveal a new and unexpected role for the intermediate filament cytoskeleton in influencing cell growth and size by regulating protein synthesis.
774,a mechanism linking extra centrosomes to chromosomal instability,chromosomal instability (cin) is a hallmark of many tumours and correlates with the presence of extra centrosomes. however  a direct mechanistic link between extra centrosomes and cin has not been established. it has been proposed that extra centrosomes generate cin by promoting multipolar anaphase  a highly abnormal division that produces three or more aneuploid daughter cells. here we use long-term live-cell imaging to demonstrate that cells with multiple centrosomes rarely undergo multipolar cell divisions  and the progeny of these divisions are typically inviable. thus  multipolar divisions cannot explain observed rates of cin. in contrast  we observe that cin cells with extra centrosomes routinely undergo bipolar cell divisions  but display a significantly increased frequency of lagging chromosomes during anaphase. to define the mechanism underlying this mitotic defect  we generated cells that differ only in their centrosome number. we demonstrate that extra centrosomes alone are sufficient to promote chromosome missegregation during bipolar cell division. these segregation errors are a consequence of cells passing through a transient 'multipolar spindle intermediate' in which merotelic kinetochore-microtubule attachment errors accumulate before centrosome clustering and anaphase. these findings provide a direct mechanistic link between extra centrosomes and cin  two common characteristics of solid tumours. we propose that this mechanism may be a common underlying cause of cin in human cancer.
776,broad neutralization coverage of hiv by multiple highly potent antibodies,broadly neutralizing antibodies against highly variable viral pathogens are much sought after to treat or protect against global circulating viruses. here we probed the neutralizing antibody repertoires of four human immunodeficiency virus (hiv)-infected donors with remarkably broad and potent neutralizing responses and rescued 17 new monoclonal antibodies that neutralize broadly across clades. many of the new monoclonal antibodies are almost tenfold more potent than the recently described pg9  pg16 and vrc01 broadly neutralizing monoclonal antibodies and 100-fold more potent than the original prototype hiv broadly neutralizing monoclonal antibodies. the monoclonal antibodies largely recapitulate the neutralization breadth found in the corresponding donor serum and many recognize novel epitopes on envelope (env) glycoprotein gp120  illuminating new targets for vaccine design. analysis of neutralization by the full complement of anti-hiv broadly neutralizing monoclonal antibodies now available reveals that certain combinations of antibodies should offer markedly more favourable coverage of the enormous diversity of global circulating viruses than others and these combinations might be sought in active or passive immunization regimes. overall  the isolation of multiple hiv broadly neutralizing monoclonal antibodies from several donors that  in aggregate  provide broad coverage at low concentrations is a highly positive indicator for the eventual design of an effective antibody-based hiv vaccine.
778,understanding mechanisms underlying human gene expression variation with rna sequencing,understanding the genetic mechanisms underlying natural variation in gene expression is a central goal of both medical and evolutionary genetics  and studies of expression quantitative trait loci (eqtls) have become an important tool for achieving this goal. although all eqtl studies so far have assayed messenger rna levels using expression microarrays  recent advances in rna sequencing enable the analysis of transcript variation at unprecedented resolution. we sequenced rna from 69 lymphoblastoid cell lines derived from unrelated nigerian individuals that have been extensively genotyped by the international hapmap project. by pooling data from all individuals  we generated a map of the transcriptional landscape of these cells  identifying extensive use of unannotated untranslated regions and more than 100 new putative protein-coding exons. using the genotypes from the hapmap project  we identified more than a thousand genes at which genetic variation influences overall expression levels or splicing. we demonstrate that eqtls near genes generally act by a mechanism involving allele-specific expression  and that variation that influences the inclusion of an exon is enriched within and near the consensus splice sites. our results illustrate the power of high-throughput sequencing for the joint analysis of variation in transcription  splicing and allele-specific expression across individuals.
780,response to self antigen imprints regulatory memory in tissues,immune homeostasis in tissues is achieved through a delicate balance between pathogenic t-cell responses directed at tissue-specific antigens and the ability of the tissue to inhibit these responses. the mechanisms by which tissues and the immune system communicate to establish and maintain immune homeostasis are currently unknown. clinical evidence suggests that chronic or repeated exposure to self antigen within tissues leads to an attenuation of pathological autoimmune responses  possibly as a means to mitigate inflammatory damage and preserve function. many human organ-specific autoimmune diseases are characterized by the initial presentation of the disease being the most severe  with subsequent flares being of lesser severity and duration. in fact  these diseases often spontaneously resolve  despite persistent tissue autoantigen expression. in the practice of antigen-specific immunotherapy  allergens or self antigens are repeatedly injected in the skin  with a diminution of the inflammatory response occurring after each successive exposure. although these findings indicate that tissues acquire the ability to attenuate autoimmune reactions upon repeated responses to antigens  the mechanism by which this occurs is unknown. here we show that upon expression of self antigen in a peripheral tissue  thymus-derived regulatory t cells (treg cells) become activated  proliferate and differentiate into more potent suppressors  which mediate resolution of organ-specific autoimmunity in mice. after resolution of the inflammatory response  activated treg cells are maintained in the target tissue and are primed to attenuate subsequent autoimmune reactions when antigen is re-expressed. thus  treg cells function to confer ‘regulatory memory’ to the target tissue. these findings provide a framework for understanding how treg cells respond when exposed to self antigen in peripheral tissues and offer mechanistic insight into how tissues regulate autoimmunity.
782,haematopoietic stem cells do not asymmetrically segregate chromosomes or retain brdu,stem cells are proposed to segregate chromosomes asymmetrically during self-renewing divisions so that older (‘immortal’) dna strands are retained in daughter stem cells whereas newly synthesized strands segregate to differentiating cells. stem cells are also proposed to retain dna labels  such as 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (brdu)  either because they segregate chromosomes asymmetrically or because they divide slowly. however  the purity of stem cells among brdu-label-retaining cells has not been documented in any tissue  and the ‘immortal strand hypothesis’ has not been tested in a system with definitive stem cell markers. here we tested these hypotheses in haematopoietic stem cells (hscs)  which can be highly purified using well characterized markers. we administered brdu to newborn mice  mice treated with cyclophosphamide and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor  and normal adult mice for 4 to 10 days  followed by 70 days without brdu. in each case  less than 6% of hscs retained brdu and less than 0.5% of all brdu-retaining haematopoietic cells were hscs  revealing that brdu has poor specificity and poor sensitivity as an hsc marker. sequential administration of 5-chloro-2-deoxyuridine and 5-iodo-2-deoxyuridine indicated that all hscs segregate their chromosomes randomly. division of individual hscs in culture revealed no asymmetric segregation of the label. thus  hscs cannot be identified on the basis of brdu-label retention and do not retain older dna strands during division  indicating that these are not general properties of stem cells.
784,g-protein-coupled receptor of kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus is a viral oncogene and angiogenesis activator.,the kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (kshv/hhv8) is a gamma-2 herpesvirus that is implicated in the pathogenesis of kaposi's sarcoma and of primary effusion b-cell lymphomas (pels). kshv infects malignant and progenitor cells of kaposi's sarcoma and pel  it encodes putative oncogenes and genes that may cause kaposi's sarcoma pathogenesis by stimulating angiogenesis. the g-protein-coupled receptor encoded by an open reading frame (orf 74) of kshv is expressed in kaposi's sarcoma lesions and in pel and stimulates signalling pathways linked to cell proliferation in a constitutive (agonist-independent) way. here we show that signalling by this kshv g-protein-coupled receptor leads to cell transformation and tumorigenicity  and induces a switch to an angiogenic phenotype mediated by vascular endothelial growth factor  an angiogenesis and kaposi's-spindle-cell growth factor. we find that this receptor can activate two protein kinases  jnk/sapk and p38mapk  by triggering signalling cascades like those induced by inflammatory cytokines that are angiogenesis activators and mitogens for kaposi's sarcoma cells and b cells. we conclude that the kshv g-protein-coupled receptor is a viral oncogene that can exploit cell signalling pathways to induce transformation and angiogenesis in kshv-mediated oncogenesis.
786,structure of the proton-gated urea channel from the gastric pathogen helicobacter pylori,half the world's population is chronically infected with helicobacter pylori  causing gastritis  gastric ulcers and an increased incidence of gastric adenocarcinoma. its proton-gated inner-membrane urea channel  hpurei  is essential for survival in the acidic environment of the stomach. the channel is closed at neutral ph and opens at acidic ph to allow the rapid access of urea to cytoplasmic urease. urease produces nh(3) and co(2)  neutralizing entering protons and thus buffering the periplasm to a ph of roughly 6.1 even in gastric juice at a ph below 2.0. here we report the structure of hpurei  revealing six protomers assembled in a hexameric ring surrounding a central bilayer plug of ordered lipids. each protomer encloses a channel formed by a twisted bundle of six transmembrane helices. the bundle defines a previously unobserved fold comprising a two-helix hairpin motif repeated three times around the central axis of the channel  without the inverted repeat of mammalian-type urea transporters. both the channel and the protomer interface contain residues conserved in the amis/urei superfamily  suggesting the preservation of channel architecture and oligomeric state in this superfamily. predominantly aromatic or aliphatic side chains line the entire channel and define two consecutive constriction sites in the middle of the channel. mutation of trp 153 in the cytoplasmic constriction site to ala or phe decreases the selectivity for urea in comparison with thiourea  suggesting that solute interaction with trp 153 contributes specificity. the previously unobserved hexameric channel structure described here provides a new model for the permeation of urea and other small amide solutes in prokaryotes and archaea.
788,somatic sex identity is cell-autonomous in the chicken,in the mammalian model of sex determination  embryos are considered to be sexually indifferent until the transient action of a sex-determining gene initiates gonadal differentiation. although this model is thought to apply to all vertebrates  this has yet to be established. here we have examined three lateral gynandromorph chickens (a rare  naturally occurring phenomenon in which one side of the animal appears male and the other female) to investigate the sex-determining mechanism in birds. these studies demonstrated that gynandromorph birds are genuine male:female chimaeras  and indicated that male and female avian somatic cells may have an inherent sex identity. to test this hypothesis  we transplanted presumptive mesoderm between embryos of reciprocal sexes to generate embryos containing male:female chimaeric gonads. in contrast to the outcome for mammalian mixed-sex chimaeras  in chicken mixed-sex chimaeras the donor cells were excluded from the functional structures of the host gonad. in an example where female tissue was transplanted into a male host  donor cells contributing to the developing testis retained a female identity and expressed a marker of female function. our study demonstrates that avian somatic cells possess an inherent sex identity and that  in birds  sexual differentiation is substantively cell autonomous.
790,deubiquitination of p53 by hausp is an important pathway for p53 stabilization,the p53 tumour suppressor is a short-lived protein that is maintained at low levels in normal cells by mdm2-mediated ubiquitination and subsequent proteolysis. stabilization of p53 is crucial for its tumour suppressor function. however  the precise mechanism by which ubiquitinated p53 levels are regulated in vivo is not completely understood. by mass spectrometry of affinity-purified p53-associated factors  we have identified herpesvirus-associated ubiquitin-specific protease (hausp) as a novel p53-interacting protein. hausp strongly stabilizes p53 even in the presence of excess mdm2  and also induces p53-dependent cell growth repression and apoptosis. significantly  hausp has an intrinsic enzymatic activity that specifically deubiquitinates p53 both in vitro and in vivo. in contrast  expression of a catalytically inactive point mutant of hausp in cells increases the levels of p53 ubiquitination and destabilizes p53. these findings reveal an important mechanism by which p53 can be stabilized by direct deubiquitination and also imply that hausp might function as a tumour suppressor in vivo through the stabilization of p53.
792,experimental and theoretical study of mitotic spindle orientation,the architecture and adhesiveness of a cell microenvironment is a critical factor for the regulation of spindle orientation in vivo. using a combination of theory and experiments  we have investigated spindle orientation in hela (human) cells. here we show that spindle orientation can be understood as the result of the action of cortical force generators  which interact with spindle microtubules and are activated by cortical cues. we develop a simple physical description of this spindle mechanics  which allows us to calculate angular profiles of the torque acting on the spindle  as well as the angular distribution of spindle orientations. our model accounts for the preferred spindle orientation and the shape of the full angular distribution of spindle orientations observed in a large variety of different cellular microenvironment geometries. it also correctly describes asymmetric spindle orientations  which are observed for certain distributions of cortical cues. we conclude that  on the basis of a few simple assumptions  we can provide a quantitative description of the spindle orientation of adherent cells.
794,dna-binding factors shape the mouse methylome at distal regulatory regions,methylation of cytosines is an essential epigenetic modification in mammalian genomes  yet the rules that govern methylation patterns remain largely elusive. to gain insights into this process  we generated base-pair-resolution mouse methylomes in stem cells and neuronal progenitors. advanced quantitative analysis identified low-methylated regions (lmrs) with an average methylation of 30%. these represent cpg-poor distal regulatory regions as evidenced by location  dnase i hypersensitivity  presence of enhancer chromatin marks and enhancer activity in reporter assays. lmrs are occupied by dna-binding factors and their binding is necessary and sufficient to create lmrs. a comparison of neuronal and stem-cell methylomes confirms this dependency  as cell-type-specific lmrs are occupied by cell-type-specific transcription factors. this study provides methylome references for the mouse and shows that dna-binding factors locally influence dna methylation  enabling the identification of active regulatory regions.
796,bacteria activate sensory neurons that modulate pain and inflammation,nociceptor sensory neurons are specialized to detect potentially damaging stimuli  protecting the organism by initiating the sensation of pain and eliciting defensive behaviours. bacterial infections produce pain by unknown molecular mechanisms  although they are presumed to be secondary to immune activation. here we demonstrate that bacteria directly activate nociceptors  and that the immune response mediated through tlr2  myd88  t cells  b cells  and neutrophils and monocytes is not necessary for staphylococcus aureus-induced pain in mice. mechanical and thermal hyperalgesia in mice is correlated with live bacterial load rather than tissue swelling or immune activation. bacteria induce calcium flux and action potentials in nociceptor neurons  in part via bacterial n-formylated peptides and the pore-forming toxin α-haemolysin  through distinct mechanisms. specific ablation of nav1.8-lineage neurons  which include nociceptors  abrogated pain during bacterial infection  but concurrently increased local immune infiltration and lymphadenopathy of the draining lymph node. thus  bacterial pathogens produce pain by directly activating sensory neurons that modulate inflammation  an unsuspected role for the nervous system in host-pathogen interactions.
798,k-ras(g12c) inhibitors allosterically control gtp affinity and effector interactions,somatic mutations in the small gtpase k-ras are the most common activating lesions found in human cancer  and are generally associated with poor response to standard therapies. efforts to target this oncogene directly have faced difficulties owing to its picomolar affinity for gtp/gdp and the absence of known allosteric regulatory sites. oncogenic mutations result in functional activation of ras family proteins by impairing gtp hydrolysis. with diminished regulation by gtpase activity  the nucleotide state of ras becomes more dependent on relative nucleotide affinity and concentration. this gives gtp an advantage over gdp and increases the proportion of active gtp-bound ras. here we report the development of small molecules that irreversibly bind to a common oncogenic mutant  k-ras(g12c). these compounds rely on the mutant cysteine for binding and therefore do not affect the wild-type protein. crystallographic studies reveal the formation of a new pocket that is not apparent in previous structures of ras  beneath the effector binding switch-ii region. binding of these inhibitors to k-ras(g12c) disrupts both switch-i and switch-ii  subverting the native nucleotide preference to favour gdp over gtp and impairing binding to raf. our data provide structure-based validation of a new allosteric regulatory site on ras that is targetable in a mutant-specific manner.
800,induced pluripotent stem cells from a spinal muscular atrophy patient,spinal muscular atrophy is one of the most common inherited forms of neurological disease leading to infant mortality. patients have selective loss of lower motor neurons resulting in muscle weakness  paralysis and often death. although patient fibroblasts have been used extensively to study spinal muscular atrophy  motor neurons have a unique anatomy and physiology which may underlie their vulnerability to the disease process. here we report the generation of induced pluripotent stem cells from skin fibroblast samples taken from a child with spinal muscular atrophy. these cells expanded robustly in culture  maintained the disease genotype and generated motor neurons that showed selective deficits compared to those derived from the child’s unaffected mother. this is the first study to show that human induced pluripotent stem cells can be used to model the specific pathology seen in a genetically inherited disease. as such  it represents a promising resource to study disease mechanisms  screen new drug compounds and develop new therapies.
802,break-induced telomere synthesis underlies alternative telomere maintenance,homology-directed dna repair is essential for genome maintenance through templated dna synthesis. alternative lengthening of telomeres (alt) necessitates homology-directed dna repair to maintain telomeres in about 10–15% of human cancers. how dna damage induces assembly and execution of a dna replication complex (break-induced replisome) at telomeres or elsewhere in the mammalian genome is poorly understood. here we define break-induced telomere synthesis and demonstrate that it utilizes a specialized replisome  which underlies alt telomere maintenance. dna double-strand breaks enact nascent telomere synthesis by long-tract unidirectional replication. proliferating cell nuclear antigen (pcna) loading by replication factor c (rfc) acts as the initial sensor of telomere damage to establish predominance of dna polymerase δ (pol δ) through its pold3 subunit. break-induced telomere synthesis requires the rfc–pcna–pol δ axis  but is independent of other canonical replisome components  atm and atr  or the homologous recombination protein rad51. thus  the inception of telomere damage recognition by the break-induced replisome orchestrates homology-directed telomere maintenance.
804,generation of transgenic non-human primates with germline transmission,the common marmoset (callithrix jacchus) is increasingly attractive for use as a non-human primate animal model in biomedical research. it has a relatively high reproduction rate for a primate  making it potentially suitable for transgenic modification. although several attempts have been made to produce non-human transgenic primates  transgene expression in the somatic tissues of live infants has not been demonstrated by objective analyses such as polymerase chain reaction with reverse transcription or western blots. here we show that the injection of a self-inactivating lentiviral vector in sucrose solution into marmoset embryos results in transgenic common marmosets that expressed the transgene in several organs. notably  we achieved germline transmission of the transgene  and the transgenic offspring developed normally. the successful creation of transgenic marmosets provides a new animal model for human disease that has the great advantage of a close genetic relationship with humans. this model will be valuable to many fields of biomedical research.
806,paar-repeat proteins sharpen and diversify the type vi secretion system spike,the bacterial type vi secretion system (t6ss) is a large multicomponent  dynamic macromolecular machine that has an important role in the ecology of many gram-negative bacteria. t6ss is responsible for translocation of a wide range of toxic effector molecules  allowing predatory cells to kill both prokaryotic as well as eukaryotic prey cells. the t6ss organelle is functionally analogous to contractile tails of bacteriophages and is thought to attack cells by initially penetrating them with a trimeric protein complex called the vgrg spike. neither the exact protein composition of the t6ss organelle nor the mechanisms of effector selection and delivery are known. here we report that proteins from the paar (proline-alanine-alanine-arginine) repeat superfamily form a sharp conical extension on the vgrg spike  which is further involved in attaching effector domains to the spike. the crystal structures of two paar-repeat proteins bound to vgrg-like partners show that these proteins sharpen the tip of the t6ss spike complex. we demonstrate that paar proteins are essential for t6ss-mediated secretion and target cell killing by vibrio cholerae and acinetobacter baylyi. our results indicate a new model of the t6ss organelle in which the vgrg-paar spike complex is decorated with multiple effectors that are delivered simultaneously into target cells in a single contraction-driven translocation event.
808,a specific amyloid-β protein assembly in the brain impairs memory,memory function often declines with age  and is believed to deteriorate initially because of changes in synaptic function rather than loss of neurons. some individuals then go on to develop alzheimer's disease with neurodegeneration. here we use tg2576 mice  which express a human amyloid-β precursor protein (app) variant linked to alzheimer's disease  to investigate the cause of memory decline in the absence of neurodegeneration or amyloid-β protein amyloidosis. young tg2576 mice (< 6 months old) have normal memory and lack neuropathology  middle-aged mice (6–14 months old) develop memory deficits without neuronal loss  and old mice (> 14 months old) form abundant neuritic plaques containing amyloid-β (refs 3–6). we found that memory deficits in middle-aged tg2576 mice are caused by the extracellular accumulation of a 56-kda soluble amyloid-β assembly  which we term aβ*56 (aβ star 56). aβ*56 purified from the brains of impaired tg2576 mice disrupts memory when administered to young rats. we propose that aβ*56 impairs memory independently of plaques or neuronal loss  and may contribute to cognitive deficits associated with alzheimer's disease.
810,role of corin in trophoblast invasion and uterine spiral artery remodelling in pregnancy,in pregnancy  trophoblast invasion and uterine spiral artery remodelling are important for lowering maternal vascular resistance and increasing uteroplacental blood flow. impaired spiral artery remodelling has been implicated in pre-eclampsia  a major complication of pregnancy  for a long time but the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. corin (also known as atrial natriuretic peptide-converting enzyme) is a cardiac protease that activates atrial natriuretic peptide (anp)  a cardiac hormone that is important in regulating blood pressure. unexpectedly  corin expression was detected in the pregnant uterus. here we identify a new function of corin and anp in promoting trophoblast invasion and spiral artery remodelling. we show that pregnant corin- or anp-deficient mice developed high blood pressure and proteinuria  characteristics of pre-eclampsia. in these mice  trophoblast invasion and uterine spiral artery remodelling were markedly impaired. consistent with this  the anp potently stimulated human trophoblasts in invading matrigels. in patients with pre-eclampsia  uterine corin messenger rna and protein levels were significantly lower than that in normal pregnancies. moreover  we have identified corin gene mutations in pre-eclamptic patients  which decreased corin activity in processing pro-anp. these results indicate that corin and anp are essential for physiological changes at the maternal–fetal interface  suggesting that defects in corin and anp function may contribute to pre-eclampsia.
812,the yeast pif1p helicase removes telomerase from telomeric dna,telomeres are the physical ends of eukaryotic chromosomes. genetic studies have established that the baker's yeast pif1p dna helicase is a negative regulator of telomerase  the specialized reverse transcriptase that maintains telomeric dna  but the biochemical basis for this inhibition was unknown. here we show that in vitro  pif1p reduces the processivity of telomerase and releases telomerase from telomeric oligonucleotides. the released telomerase is enzymatically active because it is able to lengthen a challenger oligonucleotide. in vivo  overexpression of pif1p reduces telomerase association with telomeres  whereas depleting cells of pif1p increases the levels of telomere-bound est1p  a telomerase subunit that is present on the telomere when telomerase is active. we propose that pif1p helicase activity limits telomerase action both in vivo and in vitro by displacing active telomerase from dna ends.
814,cdk1 is sufficient to drive the mammalian cell cycle,unicellular organisms such as yeasts require a single cyclin-dependent kinase  cdk1  to drive cell division. in contrast  mammalian cells are thought to require the sequential activation of at least four different cyclin-dependent kinases  cdk2  cdk3  cdk4 and cdk6  to drive cells through interphase  as well as cdk1 to proceed through mitosis. this model has been challenged by recent genetic evidence that mice survive in the absence of individual interphase cdks. moreover  most mouse cell types proliferate in the absence of two or even three interphase cdks. similar results have been obtained on ablation of some of the activating subunits of cdks  such as the d-type and e-type cyclins. here we show that mouse embryos lacking all interphase cdks (cdk2  cdk3  cdk4 and cdk6) undergo organogenesis and develop to midgestation. in these embryos  cdk1 binds to all cyclins  resulting in the phosphorylation of the retinoblastoma protein prb and the expression of genes that are regulated by e2f transcription factors. mouse embryonic fibroblasts derived from these embryos proliferate in vitro  albeit with an extended cell cycle due to inefficient inactivation of rb proteins. however  they become immortal on continuous passage. we also report that embryos fail to develop to the morula and blastocyst stages in the absence of cdk1. these results indicate that cdk1 is the only essential cell cycle cdk. moreover  they show that in the absence of interphase cdks  cdk1 can execute all the events that are required to drive cell division.
816,mosaic ppm1d mutations are associated with predisposition to breast and ovarian cancer,improved sequencing technologies offer unprecedented opportunities for investigating the role of rare genetic variation in common disease. however  there are considerable challenges with respect to study design  data analysis and replication. using pooled next-generation sequencing of 507 genes implicated in the repair of dna in 1 150 samples  an analytical strategy focused on protein-truncating variants (ptvs) and a large-scale sequencing case–control replication experiment in 13 642 individuals  here we show that rare ptvs in the p53-inducible protein phosphatase ppm1d are associated with predisposition to breast cancer and ovarian cancer. ppm1d ptv mutations were present in 25 out of 7 781 cases versus 1 out of 5 861 controls (p = 1.12 × 10−5)  including 18 mutations in 6 912 individuals with breast cancer (p = 2.42 × 10−4) and 12 mutations in 1 121 individuals with ovarian cancer (p = 3.10 × 10−9). notably  all of the identified ppm1d ptvs were mosaic in lymphocyte dna and clustered within a 370-base-pair region in the final exon of the gene  carboxy-terminal to the phosphatase catalytic domain. functional studies demonstrate that the mutations result in enhanced suppression of p53 in response to ionizing radiation exposure  suggesting that the mutant alleles encode hyperactive ppm1d isoforms. thus  although the mutations cause premature protein truncation  they do not result in the simple loss-of-function effect typically associated with this class of variant  but instead probably have a gain-of-function effect. our results have implications for the detection and management of breast and ovarian cancer risk. more generally  these data provide new insights into the role of rare and of mosaic genetic variants in common conditions  and the use of sequencing in their identification.
818,direct conversion of human fibroblasts to multilineage blood progenitors,as is the case for embryo-derived stem cells  application of reprogrammed human induced pluripotent stem cells is limited by our understanding of lineage specification. here we demonstrate the ability to generate progenitors and mature cells of the haematopoietic fate directly from human dermal fibroblasts without establishing pluripotency. ectopic expression of oct4 (also called pou5f1)-activated haematopoietic transcription factors  together with specific cytokine treatment  allowed generation of cells expressing the pan-leukocyte marker cd45. these unique fibroblast-derived cells gave rise to granulocytic  monocytic  megakaryocytic and erythroid lineages  and demonstrated in vivo engraftment capacity. we note that adult haematopoietic programs are activated  consistent with bypassing the pluripotent state to generate blood fate: this is distinct from haematopoiesis involving pluripotent stem cells  where embryonic programs are activated. these findings demonstrate restoration of multipotency from human fibroblasts  and suggest an alternative approach to cellular reprogramming for autologous cell-replacement therapies that avoids complications associated with the use of human pluripotent stem cells.
820,novel foxo1-dependent transcriptional programs control treg cell function,regulatory t (treg) cells  characterized by expression of the transcription factor forkhead box p3 (foxp3)  maintain immune homeostasis by suppressing self-destructive immune responses. foxp3 operates as a late-acting differentiation factor controlling treg cell homeostasis and function  whereas the early treg-cell-lineage commitment is regulated by the akt kinase and the forkhead box o (foxo) family of transcription factors. however  whether foxo proteins act beyond the treg-cell-commitment stage to control treg cell homeostasis and function remains largely unexplored. here we show that foxo1 is a pivotal regulator of treg cell function. treg cells express high amounts of foxo1 and display reduced t-cell-receptor-induced akt activation  foxo1 phosphorylation and foxo1 nuclear exclusion. mice with treg-cell-specific deletion of foxo1 develop a fatal inflammatory disorder similar in severity to that seen in foxp3-deficient mice  but without the loss of treg cells. genome-wide analysis of foxo1 binding sites reveals ∼300 foxo1-bound target genes  including the pro-inflammatory cytokine ifng  that do not seem to be directly regulated by foxp3. these findings show that the evolutionarily ancient akt–foxo1 signalling module controls a novel genetic program indispensable for treg cell function.
822,specificity of sensory–motor connections encoded by sema3e–plxnd1 recognition,spinal reflexes are mediated by synaptic connections between sensory afferents and motor neurons. the organization of these circuits shows several levels of specificity. only certain classes of proprioceptive sensory neurons make direct  monosynaptic connections with motor neurons. those that do are bound by rules of motor pool specificity: they form strong connections with motor neurons supplying the same muscle  but avoid motor pools supplying antagonistic muscles. this pattern of connectivity is initially accurate and is maintained in the absence of activity  implying that wiring specificity relies on the matching of recognition molecules on the surface of sensory and motor neurons. however  determinants of fine synaptic specificity here  as in most regions of the central nervous system  have yet to be defined. to address the origins of synaptic specificity in these reflex circuits we have used molecular genetic methods to manipulate recognition proteins expressed by subsets of sensory and motor neurons. we show here that a recognition system involving expression of the class 3 semaphorin sema3e by selected motor neuron pools  and its high-affinity receptor plexin d1 (plxnd1) by proprioceptive sensory neurons  is a critical determinant of synaptic specificity in sensory–motor circuits in mice. changing the profile of sema3e–plxnd1 signalling in sensory or motor neurons results in functional and anatomical rewiring of monosynaptic connections  but does not alter motor pool specificity. our findings indicate that patterns of monosynaptic connectivity in this prototypic central nervous system circuit are constructed through a recognition program based on repellent signalling.
824,oncogenic pathway signatures in human cancers as a guide to targeted therapies,the development of an oncogenic state is a complex process involving the accumulation of multiple independent mutations that lead to deregulation of cell signalling pathways central to the control of cell growth and cell fate. the ability to define cancer subtypes  recurrence of disease and response to specific therapies using dna microarray-based gene expression signatures has been demonstrated in multiple studies. various studies have also demonstrated the potential for using gene expression profiles for the analysis of oncogenic pathways. here we show that gene expression signatures can be identified that reflect the activation status of several oncogenic pathways. when evaluated in several large collections of human cancers  these gene expression signatures identify patterns of pathway deregulation in tumours and clinically relevant associations with disease outcomes. combining signature-based predictions across several pathways identifies coordinated patterns of pathway deregulation that distinguish between specific cancers and tumour subtypes. clustering tumours based on pathway signatures further defines prognosis in respective patient subsets  demonstrating that patterns of oncogenic pathway deregulation underlie the development of the oncogenic phenotype and reflect the biology and outcome of specific cancers. predictions of pathway deregulation in cancer cell lines are also shown to predict the sensitivity to therapeutic agents that target components of the pathway. linking pathway deregulation with sensitivity to therapeutics that target components of the pathway provides an opportunity to make use of these oncogenic pathway signatures to guide the use of targeted therapeutics.
826,broad and potent neutralization of hiv-1 by a gp41-specific human antibody,characterization of human monoclonal antibodies is providing considerable insight into mechanisms of broad hiv-1 neutralization. here we report an hiv-1 gp41 membrane-proximal external region (mper)-specific antibody  named 10e8  which neutralizes ∼98% of tested viruses. an analysis of sera from 78 healthy hiv-1-infected donors demonstrated that 27% contained mper-specific antibodies and 8% contained 10e8-like specificities. in contrast to other neutralizing mper antibodies  10e8 did not bind phospholipids  was not autoreactive  and bound cell-surface envelope. the structure of 10e8 in complex with the complete mper revealed a site of vulnerability comprising a narrow stretch of highly conserved gp41-hydrophobic residues and a critical arginine or lysine just before the transmembrane region. analysis of resistant hiv-1 variants confirmed the importance of these residues for neutralization. the highly conserved mper is a target of potent  non-self-reactive neutralizing antibodies  suggesting that hiv-1 vaccines should aim to induce antibodies to this region of hiv-1 envelope glycoprotein.
828,genome-wide genetic analysis of polyploidy in yeast,polyploidy  increased sets of chromosomes  occurs during development  cellular stress  disease and evolution. despite its prevalence  little is known about the physiological alterations that accompany polyploidy. we previously described ‘ploidy-specific lethality’  where a gene deletion that is not lethal in haploid or diploid budding yeast causes lethality in triploids or tetraploids. here we report a genome-wide screen to identify ploidy-specific lethal functions. only 39 out of 3 740 mutations screened exhibited ploidy-specific lethality. almost all of these mutations affect genomic stability by impairing homologous recombination  sister chromatid cohesion  or mitotic spindle function. we uncovered defects in wild-type tetraploids predicted by the screen  and identified mechanisms by which tetraploidization affects genomic stability. we show that tetraploids have a high incidence of syntelic/monopolar kinetochore attachments to the spindle pole. we suggest that this defect can be explained by mismatches in the ability to scale the size of the spindle pole body  spindle and kinetochores. thus  geometric constraints may have profound effects on genome stability; the phenomenon described here may be relevant in a variety of biological contexts  including disease states such as cancer.
830,crowding induces live cell extrusion to maintain homeostatic cell numbers in epithelia,for an epithelium to provide a protective barrier  it must maintain homeostatic cell numbers by matching the number of dividing cells with the number of dying cells. although compensatory cell division can be triggered by dying cells  it is unknown how cell death might relieve overcrowding due to proliferation. when we trigger apoptosis in epithelia  dying cells are extruded to preserve a functional barrier. extrusion occurs by cells destined to die signalling to surrounding epithelial cells to contract an actomyosin ring that squeezes the dying cell out. however  it is not clear what drives cell death during normal homeostasis. here we show in human  canine and zebrafish cells that overcrowding due to proliferation and migration induces extrusion of live cells to control epithelial cell numbers. extrusion of live cells occurs at sites where the highest crowding occurs in vivo and can be induced by experimentally overcrowding monolayers in vitro. like apoptotic cell extrusion  live cell extrusion resulting from overcrowding also requires sphingosine 1-phosphate signalling and rho-kinase-dependent myosin contraction  but is distinguished by signalling through stretch-activated channels. moreover  disruption of a stretch-activated channel  piezo1  in zebrafish prevents extrusion and leads to the formation of epithelial cell masses. our findings reveal that during homeostatic turnover  growth and division of epithelial cells on a confined substratum cause overcrowding that leads to their extrusion and consequent death owing to the loss of survival factors. these results suggest that live cell extrusion could be a tumour-suppressive mechanism that prevents the accumulation of excess epithelial cells.
832,crypt stem cells as the cells-of-origin of intestinal cancer,intestinal cancer is initiated by wnt-pathway-activating mutations in genes such as adenomatous polyposis coli (apc). as in most cancers  the cell of origin has remained elusive. in a previously established lgr5 (leucine-rich-repeat containing g-protein-coupled receptor 5) knockin mouse model  a tamoxifen-inducible cre recombinase is expressed in long-lived intestinal stem cells. here we show that deletion of apc in these stem cells leads to their transformation within days. transformed stem cells remain located at crypt bottoms  while fuelling a growing microadenoma. these microadenomas show unimpeded growth and develop into macroscopic adenomas within 3-5weeks. the distribution of lgr5+ cells within stem-cell-derived adenomas indicates that a stem cell/progenitor cell hierarchy is maintained in early neoplastic lesions. when apc is deleted in short-lived transit-amplifying cells using a different cre mouse  the growth of the induced microadenomas rapidly stalls. even after 30weeks  large adenomas are very rare in these mice. we conclude that stem-cell-specific loss of apc results in progressively growing neoplasia.
834,sperm chromatin proteomics identifies evolutionarily conserved fertility factors,male infertility is a long-standing enigma of significant medical concern. the integrity of sperm chromatin is a clinical indicator of male fertility and in vitro fertilization potential: chromosome aneuploidy and dna decondensation or damage are correlated with reproductive failure. identifying conserved proteins important for sperm chromatin structure and packaging can reveal universal causes of infertility. here we combine proteomics  cytology and functional analysis in caenorhabditis elegans to identify spermatogenic chromatin-associated proteins that are important for fertility. our strategy employed multiple steps: purification of chromatin from comparable meiotic cell types  namely those undergoing spermatogenesis or oogenesis; proteomic analysis by multidimensional protein identification technology (mudpit) of factors that co-purify with chromatin; prioritization of sperm proteins based on abundance; and subtraction of common proteins to eliminate general chromatin and meiotic factors. our approach reduced 1 099 proteins co-purified with spermatogenic chromatin  currently the most extensive catalogue  to 132 proteins for functional analysis. reduction of gene function through rna interference coupled with protein localization studies revealed conserved spermatogenesis-specific proteins vital for dna compaction  chromosome segregation  and fertility. unexpected roles in spermatogenesis were also detected for factors involved in other processes. our strategy to find fertility factors conserved from c. elegans to mammals achieved its goal: of mouse gene knockouts corresponding to nematode proteins  37% (7/19) cause male sterility. our list therefore provides significant opportunity to identify causes of male infertility and targets for male contraceptives.
836,succinate is an inflammatory signal that induces il-1β through hif-1α,macrophages activated by the gram-negative bacterial product lipopolysaccharide switch their core metabolism from oxidative phosphorylation to glycolysis. here we show that inhibition of glycolysis with 2-deoxyglucose suppresses lipopolysaccharide-induced interleukin-1β but not tumour-necrosis factor-α in mouse macrophages. a comprehensive metabolic map of lipopolysaccharide-activated macrophages shows upregulation of glycolytic and downregulation of mitochondrial genes  which correlates directly with the expression profiles of altered metabolites. lipopolysaccharide strongly increases the levels of the tricarboxylic-acid cycle intermediate succinate. glutamine-dependent anerplerosis is the principal source of succinate  although the ‘gaba (γ-aminobutyric acid) shunt’ pathway also has a role. lipopolysaccharide-induced succinate stabilizes hypoxia-inducible factor-1α  an effect that is inhibited by 2-deoxyglucose  with interleukin-1β as an important target. lipopolysaccharide also increases succinylation of several proteins. we therefore identify succinate as a metabolite in innate immune signalling  which enhances interleukin-1β production during inflammation.
838,the challenge of new drug discovery for tuberculosis,tuberculosis (tb) is more prevalent in the world today than at any other time in human history. mycobacterium tuberculosis  the pathogen responsible for tb  uses diverse strategies to survive in a variety of host lesions and to evade immune surveillance. a key question is how robust are our approaches to discovering new tb drugs  and what measures could be taken to reduce the long and protracted clinical development of new drugs. the emergence of multi-drug-resistant strains of m. tuberculosis makes the discovery of new molecular scaffolds a priority  and the current situation even necessitates the re-engineering and repositioning of some old drug families to achieve effective control. whatever the strategy used  success will depend largely on our proper understanding of the complex interactions between the pathogen and its human host. in this review  we discuss innovations in tb drug discovery and evolving strategies to bring newer agents more quickly to patients.
840,association of nod2 leucine-rich repeat variants with susceptibility to crohn's disease.,crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis  the two main types of chronic inflammatory bowel disease  are multifactorial conditions of unknown aetiology. a susceptibility locus for crohn's disease has been mapped to chromosome 16. here we have used a positional-cloning strategy  based on linkage analysis followed by linkage disequilibrium mapping  to identify three independent associations for crohn's disease: a frameshift variant and two missense variants of nod2  encoding a member of the apaf-1/ced-4 superfamily of apoptosis regulators that is expressed in monocytes. these nod2 variants alter the structure of either the leucine-rich repeat domain of the protein or the adjacent region. nod2 activates nuclear factor nf-kb; this activating function is regulated by the carboxy-terminal leucine-rich repeat domain  which has an inhibitory role and also acts as an intracellular receptor for components of microbial pathogens. these observations suggest that the nod2 gene product confers susceptibility to crohn's disease by altering the recognition of these components and/or by over-activating nf-kb in monocytes  thus documenting a molecular model for the pathogenic mechanism of crohn's disease that can now be further investigated.
842,cancer-related inflammation,the mediators and cellular effectors of inflammation are important constituents of the local environment of tumours. in some types of cancer  inflammatory conditions are present before a malignant change occurs. conversely  in other types of cancer  an oncogenic change induces an inflammatory microenvironment that promotes the development of tumours. regardless of its origin  'smouldering' inflammation in the tumour microenvironment has many tumour-promoting effects. it aids in the proliferation and survival of malignant cells  promotes angiogenesis and metastasis  subverts adaptive immune responses  and alters responses to hormones and chemotherapeutic agents. the molecular pathways of this cancer-related inflammation are now being unravelled  resulting in the identification of new target molecules that could lead to improved diagnosis and treatment.
844,pif1 family helicases suppress genome instability at g-quadruplex motifs,the saccharomyces cerevisiae pif1 helicase is the prototypical member of the pif1 dna helicase family  which is conserved from bacteria to humans. here we show that exceptionally potent g-quadruplex unwinding is conserved among pif1 helicases. moreover  pif1 helicases from organisms separated by more than 3 billion years of evolution suppressed dna damage at g-quadruplex motifs in yeast. the g-quadruplex-induced damage generated in the absence of pif1 helicases led to new genetic and epigenetic changes. furthermore  when expressed in yeast  human pif1 suppressed both g-quadruplex-associated dna damage and telomere lengthening.
846,identification of human brain tumour initiating cells,the cancer stem cell (csc) hypothesis suggests that neoplastic clones are maintained exclusively by a rare fraction of cells with stem cell properties. although the existence of cscs in human leukaemia is established  little evidence exists for cscs in solid tumours  except for breast cancer. recently  we prospectively isolated a cd133+ cell subpopulation from human brain tumours that exhibited stem cell properties in vitro. however  the true measures of cscs are their capacity for self renewal and exact recapitulation of the original tumour. here we report the development of a xenograft assay that identified human brain tumour initiating cells that initiate tumours in vivo. only the cd133+ brain tumour fraction contains cells that are capable of tumour initiation in nod-scid (non-obese diabetic  severe combined immunodeficient) mouse brains. injection of as few as 100 cd133+ cells produced a tumour that could be serially transplanted and was a phenocopy of the patient's original tumour  whereas injection of 105 cd133- cells engrafted but did not cause a tumour. thus  the identification of brain tumour initiating cells provides insights into human brain tumour pathogenesis  giving strong support for the csc hypothesis as the basis for many solid tumours  and establishes a previously unidentified cellular target for more effective cancer therapies.
848,diverse interventions that extend mouse lifespan suppress shared age-associated epigenetic changes at critical gene regulatory regions,background age-associated epigenetic changes are implicated in aging. notably  age-associated dna methylation changes comprise a so-called aging "clock"  a robust biomarker of aging. however  while genetic  dietary and drug interventions can extend lifespan  their impact on the epigenome is uncharacterised. to fill this knowledge gap  we defined age-associated dna methylation changes at the whole-genome  single-nucleotide level in mouse liver and tested the impact of longevity-promoting interventions  specifically the ames dwarf prop1 df/df mutation  calorie restriction and rapamycin. results in wild-type mice fed an unsupplemented ad libitum diet  age-associated hypomethylation was enriched at super-enhancers in highly expressed genes critical for liver function. genes harbouring hypomethylated enhancers were enriched for genes that change expression with age. hypermethylation was enriched at cpg islands marked with bivalent activating and repressing histone modifications and resembled hypermethylation in liver cancer. age-associated methylation changes are suppressed in ames dwarf and calorie restricted mice and more selectively and less specifically in rapamycin treated mice. conclusions age-associated hypo- and hypermethylation events occur at distinct regulatory features of the genome. distinct longevity-promoting interventions  specifically genetic  dietary and drug interventions  suppress some age-associated methylation changes  consistent with the idea that these interventions exert their beneficial effects  in part  by modulation of the epigenome. this study is a foundation to understand the epigenetic contribution to healthy aging and longevity and the molecular basis of the dna methylation clock.
850,effects of soy isoflavones and phytate on homocysteine  c-reactive protein  and iron status in postmenopausal women.,background soy protein or its components may protect against the atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (cvd) risk factors total homocysteine (thcy)  c-reactive protein (crp)  and excess body iron  which generally increase with menopause. objective the primary objective of this study was to determine the independent effect of the soy protein components isoflavones and phytate on cvd risk factors in postmenopausal women. the secondary objective was to identify factors [blood lipids  oxidative stress indexes  serum ferritin  plasma folate  plasma vitamin b-12  and body mass index (bmi)] contributing to thcy and crp concentrations. design in a double-blind  6-wk study  55 postmenopausal women aged 47-72 y were randomly assigned to 1 of 4 soy protein (40 g/d) isolate treatments: native phytate and native isoflavone (n = 14)  native phytate and low isoflavone (n = 13)  low phytate and native isoflavone (n = 14)  or low phytate and low isoflavone (n = 14). we measured iron indexes  thcy  crp  and bmi. results soy protein with native phytate significantly reduced thcy (p = 0.017)  transferrin saturation (p = 0.027)  and ferritin (p = 0.029)  whereas soy protein with native isoflavones had no effect on any variables. at baseline  bmi was highly correlated with thcy (r = 0.39  p = 0.003) and crp (r = 0.55  p < 0.0001)  whereas hdl cholesterol was correlated with crp (r = -0.30  p = 0.02). multiple regression analysis showed that ldl cholesterol and bmi contributed significantly (r2= 19.9%  p = 0.003) to the overall variance in thcy. conclusion consuming phytate-rich foods and maintaining a healthy weight may reduce atherosclerotic cvd risk factors in postmenopausal women.
852,plasma corin as a predictor of cardiovascular events in patients with chronic heart failure.,objectives the aim of this study was to determine the prognostic value of plasma corin in patients with chronic heart failure (chf). background in recent years  accumulating evidence has indicated that corin plays a critical role in regulating blood pressure and cardiac function. methods we enrolled 1 148 consecutive chf patients in a prospective cohort study and explored the association between plasma corin levels and clinical prognosis using multivariate cox regression analysis. results patients with low corin levels (<458 pg/ml) were more likely to be women and to be hypertensive. low corin was found to be associated with an increase in new york heart association (nyha) functional class and n-terminal pro-b-type natriuretic peptide (nt-probnp) levels  and a decrease in left ventricular ejection fraction (lvef) and the estimated glomerular filtration rate (egfr). multivariate cox regression analysis suggested that log corin was an independent predictor of major adverse cardiac event(s) (mace) (hazard ratio: 0.62; 95% confidence interval: 0.39 to 0.95)  together with age  diabetes  nyha functional class  lvef  egfr  and log nt-probnp. in addition  log corin was also a significant predictor for cardiovascular death (p = 0.041) and heart failure rehospitalization (p = 0.015) after adjustment for clinical variables and established biomarkers of adverse prognosis. the kaplan-meier survival curves showed that low corin was a significant predictor of mace in patients with nt-probnp levels above and below the median. conclusions our study demonstrates that plasma corin is a valuable prognostic marker of mace in patients with chf  independent of established conventional risk factors.
854,modulation of the proteoglycan receptor ptpσ promotes recovery after spinal cord injury,contusive spinal cord injury leads to a variety of disabilities owing to limited neuronal regeneration and functional plasticity. it is well established that an upregulation of glial-derived chondroitin sulphate proteoglycans (cspgs) within the glial scar and perineuronal net creates a barrier to axonal regrowth and sprouting. protein tyrosine phosphatase σ (ptpσ)  along with its sister phosphatase leukocyte common antigen-related (lar) and the nogo receptors 1 and 3 (ngr)  have recently been identified as receptors for the inhibitory glycosylated side chains of cspgs. here we find in rats that ptpσ has a critical role in converting growth cones into a dystrophic state by tightly stabilizing them within cspg-rich substrates. we generated a membrane-permeable peptide mimetic of the ptpσ wedge domain that binds to ptpσ and relieves cspg-mediated inhibition. systemic delivery of this peptide over weeks restored substantial serotonergic innervation to the spinal cord below the level of injury and facilitated functional recovery of both locomotor and urinary systems. our results add a new layer of understanding to the critical role of ptpσ in mediating the growth-inhibited state of neurons due to cspgs within the injured adult spinal cord.
856,hemoglobin concentration in white  black  and oriental children: is there a need for separate criteria in screening for anemia?,the concentration of hemoglobin in blacks was found to be 0.5 to 1.0 g/dl lower than that of income-matched whites in several large surveys. this difference could be a racial characteristic of blacks  or it might be due to a higher frequency of genetic traits such as thalassemia minor and hemoglobinopathies  or to environmental factors such as iron deficiency. to help in making this distinction  we analyzed the data from multiphasic examinations (1973 to 1975) on 1718 white  741 black  and 315 oriental healthy  nonindigent children between 5 and 14 years of age. in the entire population  the median hemoglobin concentration averaged 0.5 g/dl lower in blacks than in whites of both sexes (t test  p less than 0.001). the differences still averaged 0.5 g/dl (p less than 0.001) after exclusion of all those with abnormal hemoglobin by electrophoresis (hgb s and c) and those whose mean corpuscular volume was more than 5% below the normal mean for age (to exclude iron deficiency or thalassemia minor). the data strengthen the impression that blacks normally have a concentration of hemoglobin averaging about 0.5 g/dl less than in whites. if this is the case  about 10% of normal blacks will be mistakenly designated anemic  if the same norms are applied.
858,autophagy mediates degradation of nuclear lamina,macroautophagy (hereafter referred to as autophagy) is a catabolic membrane trafficking process that degrades a variety of cellular constituents and is associated with human diseases. although extensive studies have focused on autophagic turnover of cytoplasmic materials  little is known about the role of autophagy in degrading nuclear components. here we report that the autophagy machinery mediates degradation of nuclear lamina components in mammals. the autophagy protein lc3/atg8  which is involved in autophagy membrane trafficking and substrate delivery  is present in the nucleus and directly interacts with the nuclear lamina protein lamin b1  and binds to lamin-associated domains on chromatin. this lc3-lamin b1 interaction does not downregulate lamin b1 during starvation  but mediates its degradation upon oncogenic insults  such as by activated ras. lamin b1 degradation is achieved by nucleus-to-cytoplasm transport that delivers lamin b1 to the lysosome. inhibiting autophagy or the lc3-lamin b1 interaction prevents activated ras-induced lamin b1 loss and attenuates oncogene-induced senescence in primary human cells. our study suggests that this new function of autophagy acts as a guarding mechanism protecting cells from tumorigenesis.
860,zmynd11 links histone h3.3k36me3 to transcription elongation and tumour suppression,recognition of modified histones by ‘reader’ proteins plays a critical role in the regulation of chromatin. h3k36 trimethylation (h3k36me3) is deposited onto the nucleosomes in the transcribed regions after rna polymerase ii elongation. in yeast  this mark in turn recruits epigenetic regulators to reset the chromatin to a relatively repressive state  thus suppressing cryptic transcription. however  much less is known about the role of h3k36me3 in transcription regulation in mammals. this is further complicated by the transcription-coupled incorporation of the histone variant h3.3 in gene bodies. here we show that the candidate tumour suppressor zmynd11 specifically recognizes h3k36me3 on h3.3 (h3.3k36me3) and regulates rna polymerase ii elongation. structural studies show that in addition to the trimethyl-lysine binding by an aromatic cage within the pwwp domain  the h3.3-dependent recognition is mediated by the encapsulation of the h3.3-specific ‘ser 31’ residue in a composite pocket formed by the tandem bromo–pwwp domains of zmynd11. chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by sequencing shows a genome-wide co-localization of zmynd11 with h3k36me3 and h3.3 in gene bodies  and its occupancy requires the pre-deposition of h3.3k36me3. although zmynd11 is associated with highly expressed genes  it functions as an unconventional transcription co-repressor by modulating rna polymerase ii at the elongation stage. zmynd11 is critical for the repression of a transcriptional program that is essential for tumour cell growth; low expression levels of zmynd11 in breast cancer patients correlate with worse prognosis. consistently  overexpression of zmynd11 suppresses cancer cell growth in vitro and tumour formation in mice. together  this study identifies zmynd11 as an h3.3-specific reader of h3k36me3 that links the histone-variant-mediated transcription elongation control to tumour suppression.
862,whole genomes redefine the mutational landscape of pancreatic cancer,pancreatic cancer remains one of the most lethal of malignancies and a major health burden. we performed whole-genome sequencing and copy number variation (cnv) analysis of 100 pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas (pdacs). chromosomal rearrangements leading to gene disruption were prevalent  affecting genes known to be important in pancreatic cancer (tp53  smad4  cdkn2a  arid1a and robo2) and new candidate drivers of pancreatic carcinogenesis (kdm6a and prex2). patterns of structural variation (variation in chromosomal structure) classified pdacs into 4 subtypes with potential clinical utility: the subtypes were termed stable  locally rearranged  scattered and unstable. a significant proportion harboured focal amplifications  many of which contained druggable oncogenes (erbb2  met  fgfr1  cdk6  pik3r3 and pik3ca)  but at low individual patient prevalence. genomic instability co-segregated with inactivation of dna maintenance genes (brca1  brca2 or palb2) and a mutational signature of dna damage repair deficiency. of 8 patients who received platinum therapy  4 of 5 individuals with these measures of defective dna maintenance responded.
864,a three-dimensional human neural cell culture model of alzheimer’s disease,alzheimer’s disease is the most common form of dementia  characterized by two pathological hallmarks: amyloid-β plaques and neurofibrillary tangles. the amyloid hypothesis of alzheimer’s disease posits that the excessive accumulation of amyloid-β peptide leads to neurofibrillary tangles composed of aggregated hyperphosphorylated tau. however  to date  no single disease model has serially linked these two pathological events using human neuronal cells. mouse models with familial alzheimer’s disease (fad) mutations exhibit amyloid-β-induced synaptic and memory deficits but they do not fully recapitulate other key pathological events of alzheimer’s disease  including distinct neurofibrillary tangle pathology. human neurons derived from alzheimer’s disease patients have shown elevated levels of toxic amyloid-β species and phosphorylated tau but did not demonstrate amyloid-β plaques or neurofibrillary tangles. here we report that fad mutations in β-amyloid precursor protein and presenilin 1 are able to induce robust extracellular deposition of amyloid-β  including amyloid-β plaques  in a human neural stem-cell-derived three-dimensional (3d) culture system. more importantly  the 3d-differentiated neuronal cells expressing fad mutations exhibited high levels of detergent-resistant  silver-positive aggregates of phosphorylated tau in the soma and neurites  as well as filamentous tau  as detected by immunoelectron microscopy. inhibition of amyloid-β generation with β- or γ-secretase inhibitors not only decreased amyloid-β pathology  but also attenuated tauopathy. we also found that glycogen synthase kinase 3 (gsk3) regulated amyloid-β-mediated tau phosphorylation. we have successfully recapitulated amyloid-β and tau pathology in a single 3d human neural cell culture system. our unique strategy for recapitulating alzheimer’s disease pathology in a 3d neural cell culture model should also serve to facilitate the development of more precise human neural cell models of other neurodegenerative disorders.
866,estimation of optimal serum concentrations of 25-hydroxyvitamin d for multiple health outcomes.,recent evidence suggests that vitamin d intakes above current recommendations may be associated with better health outcomes. however  optimal serum concentrations of 25-hydroxyvitamin d [25(oh)d] have not been defined. this review summarizes evidence from studies that evaluated thresholds for serum 25(oh)d concentrations in relation to bone mineral density (bmd)  lower-extremity function  dental health  and risk of falls  fractures  and colorectal cancer. for all endpoints  the most advantageous serum concentrations of 25(oh)d begin at 75 nmol/l (30 ng/ml)  and the best are between 90 and 100 nmol/l (36-40 ng/ml). in most persons  these concentrations could not be reached with the currently recommended intakes of 200 and 600 iu vitamin d/d for younger and older adults  respectively. a comparison of vitamin d intakes with achieved serum concentrations of 25(oh)d for the purpose of estimating optimal intakes led us to suggest that  for bone health in younger adults and all studied outcomes in older adults  an increase in the currently recommended intake of vitamin d is warranted. an intake for all adults of > or =1000 iu (25 microg) [dosage error corrected] vitamin d (cholecalciferol)/d is needed to bring vitamin d concentrations in no less than 50% of the population up to 75 nmol/l. the implications of higher doses for the entire adult population should be addressed in future studies.
868,a temporal shift in the circuits mediating retrieval of fear memory,fear memories allow animals to avoid danger  thereby increasing their chances of survival. fear memories can be retrieved long after learning  but little is known about how retrieval circuits change with time. here we show that the dorsal midline thalamus of rats is required for the retrieval of auditory conditioned fear at late (24 hours  7 days  28 days)  but not early (0.5 hours  6 hours) time points after learning. consistent with this  the paraventricular nucleus of the thalamus (pvt)  a subregion of the dorsal midline thalamus  showed increased c-fos expression only at late time points  indicating that the pvt is gradually recruited for fear retrieval. accordingly  the conditioned tone responses of pvt neurons increased with time after training. the prelimbic (pl) prefrontal cortex  which is necessary for fear retrieval  sends dense projections to the pvt. retrieval at late time points activated pl neurons projecting to the pvt  and optogenetic silencing of these projections impaired retrieval at late  but not early  time points. in contrast  silencing of pl inputs to the basolateral amygdala impaired retrieval at early  but not late  time points  indicating a time-dependent shift in retrieval circuits. retrieval at late time points also activated pvt neurons projecting to the central nucleus of the amygdala  and silencing these projections at late  but not early  time points induced a persistent attenuation of fear. thus  the pvt may act as a crucial thalamic node recruited into cortico-amygdalar networks for retrieval and maintenance of long-term fear memories.
870,predicting immunogenic tumour mutations by combining mass spectrometry and exome sequencing,human tumours typically harbour a remarkable number of somatic mutations. if presented on major histocompatibility complex class i molecules (mhci)  peptides containing these mutations could potentially be immunogenic as they should be recognized as ‘non-self’ neo-antigens by the adaptive immune system. recent work has confirmed that mutant peptides can serve as t-cell epitopes. however  few mutant epitopes have been described because their discovery required the laborious screening of patient tumour-infiltrating lymphocytes for their ability to recognize antigen libraries constructed following tumour exome sequencing. we sought to simplify the discovery of immunogenic mutant peptides by characterizing their general properties. we developed an approach that combines whole-exome and transcriptome sequencing analysis with mass spectrometry to identify neo-epitopes in two widely used murine tumour models. of the >1 300 amino acid changes identified  ∼13% were predicted to bind mhci  a small fraction of which were confirmed by mass spectrometry. the peptides were then structurally modelled bound to mhci. mutations that were solvent-exposed and therefore accessible to t-cell antigen receptors were predicted to be immunogenic. vaccination of mice confirmed the approach  with each predicted immunogenic peptide yielding therapeutically active t-cell responses. the predictions also enabled the generation of peptide–mhci dextramers that could be used to monitor the kinetics and distribution of the anti-tumour t-cell response before and after vaccination. these findings indicate that a suitable prediction algorithm may provide an approach for the pharmacodynamic monitoring of t-cell responses as well as for the development of personalized vaccines in cancer patients.
872,effects of exercise intensity on cardiovascular fitness  total body composition  and visceral adiposity of obese adolescents.,background little is known about how the intensity of exercise influences cardiovascular fitness and body composition  especially in obese adolescents. objective our goal was to determine the effects of physical training intensity on the cardiovascular fitness  percentage of body fat (%bf)  and visceral adipose tissue (vat) of obese adolescents. design obese 13-16-y-olds (n = 80) were assigned to 1) biweekly lifestyle education (lse)  2) lse + moderate-intensity physical training  or 3) lse + high-intensity physical training. the intervention lasted 8 mo. physical training was offered 5 d/wk  and the target energy expenditure for all subjects in physical training groups was 1047 kj (250 kcal)/session. cardiovascular fitness was measured with a multistage treadmill test  %bf with dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry  and vat with magnetic resonance imaging. results the increase in cardiovascular fitness in the high-intensity physical training group  but not in the moderate-intensity group  was significantly greater than that in the lse alone group (p = 0.009); no other comparisons of the 3 groups were significant. compared with the lse alone group  a group composed of subjects in both physical training groups combined who attended training sessions >or=2 d/wk showed favorable changes in cardiovascular fitness (p < 0.001)  %bf (p = 0.001)  and vat (p = 0.029). we found no evidence that the high-intensity physical training was more effective than the moderate-intensity physical training in enhancing body composition. conclusions the cardiovascular fitness of obese adolescents was significantly improved by physical training  especially high-intensity physical training. the physical training also reduced both visceral and total-body adiposity  but there was no clear effect of the intensity of physical training.
874,epicatechin and a cocoa polyphenolic extract modulate gene expression in human caco-2 cells.,we performed a functional genomic analysis to study the effect of epicatechin and polyphenolic cocoa extract in the human colon adenocarcinoma cell line caco-2. the specific human hematology/immunology cdna arrays by clontech  containing 406 genes in duplicate  were used. the differentially expressed genes were classified according to their level of expression  calculated as the ratio of the value obtained after each treatment relative to control cells  with a statistical significance of p < 0.05 (upregulated: ratio > 1.5; downregulated: ratio < 0.6). treatment with epicatechin decreased the expression of 21 genes and upregulated 24 genes. upon incubation with the cocoa polyphenolic extract  24 genes were underexpressed and 28 were overexpressed. the changes in expression for ferritin heavy polypeptide 1 (fth1)  mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 1 (mapkk1)  signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (stat1)  and topoisomerase 1 upon incubation with epicatechin  and for myeloid leukemia factor 2 (mlf2)  ccaat/enhancer binding protein gamma (c/ebpg)  mapkk1  atp-binding cassette  subfamily c member 1 (mrp1)  stat1  topoisomerase 1  and x-ray repair complementing defective repair 1 (xrcc1) upon incubation with the cocoa polyphenolic extract were validated by rt-pcr. changes in the messenger rna levels for mapkk1  stat1  mrp1  and topoisomerase 1 upon incubation with either epicatechin or cocoa extract were further confirmed at the protein level by western blotting. the changes in the expression of stat1  mapkk1  mrp1  and fth1 genes  which are involved in the cellular response to oxidative stress  are in agreement with the antioxidant properties of cocoa flavonoids. in addition  the changes in the expression of c/ebpg  topoisomerase 1  mlf2  and xrcc1 suggest novel mechanisms of action of flavonoids at the molecular level.
876,precision microbiome reconstitution restores bile acid mediated resistance to clostridium difficile,the gastrointestinal tracts of mammals are colonized by hundreds of microbial species that contribute to health  including colonization resistance against intestinal pathogens. many antibiotics destroy intestinal microbial communities and increase susceptibility to intestinal pathogens. among these  clostridium difficile  a major cause of antibiotic-induced diarrhoea  greatly increases morbidity and mortality in hospitalized patients. which intestinal bacteria provide resistance to c. difficile infection and their in vivo inhibitory mechanisms remain unclear. here we correlate loss of specific bacterial taxa with development of infection  by treating mice with different antibiotics that result in distinct microbiota changes and lead to varied susceptibility to c. difficile. mathematical modelling augmented by analyses of the microbiota of hospitalized patients identifies resistance-associated bacteria common to mice and humans. using these platforms  we determine that clostridium scindens  a bile acid 7α-dehydroxylating intestinal bacterium  is associated with resistance to c. difficile infection and  upon administration  enhances resistance to infection in a secondary bile acid dependent fashion. using a workflow involving mouse models  clinical studies  metagenomic analyses  and mathematical modelling  we identify a probiotic candidate that corrects a clinically relevant microbiome deficiency. these findings have implications for the rational design of targeted antimicrobials as well as microbiome-based diagnostics and therapeutics for individuals at risk of c. difficile infection.
878,multiple mechanisms disrupt the let-7 microrna family in neuroblastoma,poor prognosis in neuroblastoma is associated with genetic amplification of mycn. mycn is itself a target of let-7  a tumour suppressor family of micrornas implicated in numerous cancers. lin28b  an inhibitor of let-7 biogenesis  is overexpressed in neuroblastoma and has been reported to regulate mycn. here we show  however  that lin28b is dispensable in mycn-amplified neuroblastoma cell lines  despite de-repression of let-7. we further demonstrate that mycn messenger rna levels in amplified disease are exceptionally high and sufficient to sponge let-7  which reconciles the dispensability of lin28b. we found that genetic loss of let-7 is common in neuroblastoma  inversely associated with mycn amplification  and independently associated with poor outcomes  providing a rationale for chromosomal loss patterns in neuroblastoma. we propose that let-7 disruption by lin28b  mycn sponging  or genetic loss is a unifying mechanism of neuroblastoma development with broad implications for cancer pathogenesis.
880,g-protein-independent coupling of mc4r to kir7.1 in hypothalamic neurons,the regulated release of anorexigenic α-melanocyte stimulating hormone (α-msh) and orexigenic agouti-related protein (agrp) from discrete hypothalamic arcuate neurons onto common target sites in the central nervous system has a fundamental role in the regulation of energy homeostasis. both peptides bind with high affinity to the melanocortin-4 receptor (mc4r); existing data show that α-msh is an agonist that couples the receptor to the gαs signalling pathway  while agrp binds competitively to block α-msh binding and blocks the constitutive activity mediated by the ligand-mimetic amino-terminal domain of the receptor. here we show that  in mice  regulation of firing activity of neurons from the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (pvn) by α-msh and agrp can be mediated independently of gαs signalling by ligand-induced coupling of mc4r to closure of inwardly rectifying potassium channel  kir7.1. furthermore  agrp is a biased agonist that hyperpolarizes neurons by binding to mc4r and opening kir7.1  independently of its inhibition of α-msh binding. consequently  kir7.1 signalling appears to be central to melanocortin-mediated regulation of energy homeostasis within the pvn. coupling of mc4r to kir7.1 may explain unusual aspects of the control of energy homeostasis by melanocortin signalling  including the gene dosage effect of mc4r and the sustained effects of agrp on food intake.
882,human serum 25-hydroxycholecalciferol response to extended oral dosing with cholecalciferol.,background the cholecalciferol inputs required to achieve or maintain any given serum 25-hydroxycholecalciferol concentration are not known  particularly within ranges comparable to the probable physiologic supply of the vitamin. objectives the objectives were to establish the quantitative relation between steady state cholecalciferol input and the resulting serum 25-hydroxycholecalciferol concentration and to estimate the proportion of the daily requirement during winter that is met by cholecalciferol reserves in body tissue stores. design cholecalciferol was administered daily in controlled oral doses labeled at 0  25  125  and 250 micro g cholecalciferol for approximately 20 wk during the winter to 67 men living in omaha (41.2 degrees n latitude). the time course of serum 25-hydroxycholecalciferol concentration was measured at intervals over the course of treatment. results from a mean baseline value of 70.3 nmol/l  equilibrium concentrations of serum 25-hydroxycholecalciferol changed during the winter months in direct proportion to the dose  with a slope of approximately 0.70 nmol/l for each additional 1 micro g cholecalciferol input. the calculated oral input required to sustain the serum 25-hydroxycholecalciferol concentration present before the study (ie  in the autumn) was 12.5 micro g (500 iu)/d  whereas the total amount from all sources (supplement  food  tissue stores) needed to sustain the starting 25-hydroxycholecalciferol concentration was estimated at approximately 96 micro g (approximately 3800 iu)/d. by difference  the tissue stores provided approximately 78-82 micro g/d. conclusions healthy men seem to use 3000-5000 iu cholecalciferol/d  apparently meeting > 80% of their winter cholecalciferol need with cutaneously synthesized accumulations from solar sources during the preceding summer months. current recommended vitamin d inputs are inadequate to maintain serum 25-hydroxycholecalciferol concentration in the absence of substantial cutaneous production of vitamin d.
884,succession of microbial consortia in the developing infant gut microbiome.,the colonization process of the infant gut microbiome has been called chaotic  but this view could reflect insufficient documentation of the factors affecting the microbiome. we performed a 2.5-y case study of the assembly of the human infant gut microbiome  to relate life events to microbiome composition and function. sixty fecal samples were collected from a healthy infant along with a diary of diet and health status. analysis of >300 000 16s rrna genes indicated that the phylogenetic diversity of the microbiome increased gradually over time and that changes in community composition conformed to a smooth temporal gradient. in contrast  major taxonomic groups showed abrupt shifts in abundance corresponding to changes in diet or health. community assembly was nonrandom: we observed discrete steps of bacterial succession punctuated by life events. furthermore  analysis of ≈ 500 000 dna metagenomic reads from 12 fecal samples revealed that the earliest microbiome was enriched in genes facilitating lactate utilization  and that functional genes involved in plant polysaccharide metabolism were present before the introduction of solid food  priming the infant gut for an adult diet. however  ingestion of table foods caused a sustained increase in the abundance of bacteroidetes  elevated fecal short chain fatty acid levels  enrichment of genes associated with carbohydrate utilization  vitamin biosynthesis  and xenobiotic degradation  and a more stable community composition  all of which are characteristic of the adult microbiome. this study revealed that seemingly chaotic shifts in the microbiome are associated with life events; however  additional experiments ought to be conducted to assess how different infants respond to similar life events.
886,disclosure of apoe genotype for risk of alzheimer's disease.,background the apolipoprotein e (apoe) genotype provides information on the risk of alzheimer's disease  but the genotyping of patients and their family members has been discouraged. we examined the effect of genotype disclosure in a prospective  randomized  controlled trial. methods we randomly assigned 162 asymptomatic adults who had a parent with alzheimer's disease to receive the results of their own apoe genotyping (disclosure group) or not to receive such results (nondisclosure group). we measured symptoms of anxiety  depression  and test-related distress 6 weeks  6 months  and 1 year after disclosure or nondisclosure. results there were no significant differences between the two groups in changes in time-averaged measures of anxiety (4.5 in the disclosure group and 4.4 in the nondisclosure group  p=0.84)  depression (8.8 and 8.7  respectively; p=0.98)  or test-related distress (6.9 and 7.5  respectively; p=0.61). secondary comparisons between the nondisclosure group and a disclosure subgroup of subjects carrying the apoe epsilon4 allele (which is associated with increased risk) also revealed no significant differences. however  the epsilon4-negative subgroup had a significantly lower level of test-related distress than did the epsilon4-positive subgroup (p=0.01). subjects with clinically meaningful changes in psychological outcomes were distributed evenly among the nondisclosure group and the epsilon4-positive and epsilon4-negative subgroups. baseline scores for anxiety and depression were strongly associated with post-disclosure scores of these measures (p<0.001 for both comparisons). conclusions the disclosure of apoe genotyping results to adult children of patients with alzheimer's disease did not result in significant short-term psychological risks. test-related distress was reduced among those who learned that they were apoe epsilon4-negative. persons with high levels of emotional distress before undergoing genetic testing were more likely to have emotional difficulties after disclosure. (clinicaltrials.gov number  nct00571025.)
888,can online consumers contribute to drug knowledge? a mixed-methods comparison of consumer-generated and professionally controlled psychotropic medication information on the internet,background ongoing initiatives to filter online health searches exclude consumer-generated content from search returns  though its inferiority compared with professionally controlled content is not demonstrated. the antidepressant escitalopram and the antipsychotic quetiapine have ranked over the last 5 years as top-selling agents in their respective drug classes. both drugs have various off-label mental health and non-mental health uses  ranging from the relief of insomnia and migraines to the treatment of severe developmental disorders. objective our objective was to describe the most frequently reported effects of escitalopram and quetiapine in online consumer reviews  to compare them with effects described in professionally controlled commercial health websites  and to gauge the usability of online consumer medication reviews. methods a stratified simple random sample of 960 consumer reviews was selected from all 6998 consumer reviews of the two drugs in 2 consumer-generated (www.askapatient.com and www.crazymeds.us) and 2 professionally controlled (www.webmd.com and www.revolutionhealth.com) health websites. professional medication descriptions included all standard information on the medications from the latter 2 websites. all textual data were inductively coded for medication effects  and intercoder agreement was assessed. chi-square was used to test for associations between consumer-reported effects and website origination. results consumers taking either escitalopram (n = 480) or quetiapine (n = 480) most frequently reported symptom improvement (30.4% or 146/480  24.8% or 119/480) or symptom worsening (15.8% or 76/480  10.2% or 49/480)  changes in sleep (36% or 173/480  60.6% or 291/480) and changes in weight and appetite (22.5% or 108/480  30.8% or 148/480). more consumers posting reviews on consumer-generated rather than professionally controlled websites reported symptom worsening on quetiapine (17.3% or 38/220 versus 5% or 11/220  p < .001)  while more consumers posting on professionally controlled websites reported symptom improvement (32.7% or 72/220 versus 21.4% or 47/220  p = .008). professional descriptions more frequently listed physical adverse effects and warnings about suicidal ideation while consumer reviews emphasized effects disrupting daily routines and provided richer descriptions of effects in context. the most recent 20 consumer reviews on each drug from each website (n = 80) were comparable to the full sample of reviews in the frequency of commonly reported effects. conclusion consumer reviews and professional medication descriptions generally reported similar effects of two psychotropic medications but differed in their descriptions and in frequency of reporting. professional medication descriptions offer the advantage of a concise yet comprehensive listing of drug effects  while consumer reviews offer greater context and situational examples of how effects may manifest in various combinations and to varying degrees. the dispersion of consumer reviews across websites limits their integration  but a brief browsing strategy on the two target medications nonetheless retrieved representative consumer content. current strategies for filtering online health searches to return only trusted or approved websites may inappropriately address the challenge to identify quality health sources on the internet because such strategies unduly limit access to an entire complementary source for health information.
890,mechanisms of age-related macular degeneration,age-related macular degeneration (amd)  a progressive condition that is untreatable in up to 90% of patients  is a leading cause of blindness in the elderly worldwide. the two forms of amd  wet and dry  are classified based on the presence or absence of blood vessels that have disruptively invaded the retina  respectively. a detailed understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying wet amd has led to several robust fda-approved therapies. in contrast  there are no approved treatments for dry amd. in this review  we provide insight into the critical effector pathways mediating each form of the disease. a recurring theme that spans most aspects of amd pathogenesis is defective immune modulation in the classically immune-privileged ocular haven. interestingly  the latest advances in amd research also highlight common molecular disease pathways with other neurodegenerative disorders. finally  the therapeutic potential of intervening at known mechanistic steps of amd pathogenesis is discussed.
892,h3k9 demethylase kdm4e is an epigenetic regulator for bovine embryonic development and a defective factor for nuclear reprogramming.,aberrant epigenetic reprogramming often results in developmental defects in somatic cell nuclear transfer (scnt) embryos during embryonic genome activation (ega). bovine eight-cell scnt embryos exhibit global hypermethylation of histone h3 lysine 9 tri- and di-methylation (h3k9me3/2)  but the intrinsic reason for this remains elusive. here  we provide evidence that two h3k9 demethylase genes  lysine-specific demethylase 4d (kdm4d) and 4e (kdm4e)  are related to active h3k9me3/2 demethylation in in vitro fertilized (ivf) embryos and are deficiently expressed in cloned embryos at the time of ega. moreover  kdm4e plays a more crucial role in ivf and scnt embryonic development  and overexpression of kdm4e can restore the global transcriptome  improve blastocyst formation and increase the cloning efficiency of scnt embryos. our results thereby indicate that kdm4e can function as a crucial epigenetic regulator of ega and as an internal defective factor responsible for persistent h3k9me3/2 barriers to scnt-mediated reprogramming. furthermore  we show that interactions between rna and kdm4e are essential for h3k9 demethylation during ega. these observations advance the understanding of incomplete nuclear reprogramming and are of great importance for transgenic cattle procreation.
894,aire regulates negative selection of organ-specific t cells,autoimmune polyendocrinopathy syndrome type 1 is a recessive mendelian disorder resulting from mutations in a novel gene  aire  and is characterized by a spectrum of organ-specific autoimmune diseases. it is not known what tolerance mechanisms are defective as a result of aire mutation. by tracing the fate of autoreactive cd4+ t cells with high affinity for a pancreatic antigen in transgenic mice with an aire mutation  we show here that aire deficiency causes almost complete failure to delete the organ-specific cells in the thymus. these results indicate that autoimmune polyendocrinopathy syndrome 1 is caused by failure of a specialized mechanism for deleting forbidden t cell clones  establishing a central role for this tolerance mechanism.
896,mutation of the human circadian clock gene cry1 in familial delayed sleep phase disorder,patterns of daily human activity are controlled by an intrinsic circadian clock that promotes ∼24 hr rhythms in many behavioral and physiological processes. this system is altered in delayed sleep phase disorder (dspd)  a common form of insomnia in which sleep episodes are shifted to later times misaligned with the societal norm. here  we report a hereditary form of dspd associated with a dominant coding variation in the core circadian clock gene cry1  which creates a transcriptional inhibitor with enhanced affinity for circadian activator proteins clock and bmal1. this gain-of-function cry1 variant causes reduced expression of key transcriptional targets and lengthens the period of circadian molecular rhythms  providing a mechanistic link to dspd symptoms. the allele has a frequency of up to 0.6%  and reverse phenotyping of unrelated families corroborates late and/or fragmented sleep patterns in carriers  suggesting that it affects sleep behavior in a sizeable portion of the human population.
898,relationship between advanced glycation end‐product accumulation and low skeletal muscle mass in japanese men and women,aim the present study aimed to investigate the relationship between advanced glycation end-product accumulation and skeletal muscle mass among middle-aged and older japanese men and women. methods a total of 132 participants enrolled in this cross-sectional study. skin autofluorescence was assessed as a measure of advanced glycation-end products. appendicular skeletal muscle mass was measured using dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry  and skeletal muscle index was calculated by dividing appendicular skeletal muscle mass by height squared. participants were divided into two groups (low skeletal muscle index and normal skeletal muscle index) using the asian working group for sarcopenia's skeletal muscle index criteria for diagnosing sarcopenia. multivariate logistic regression analysis and the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve were used to determine significant factors associated with low skeletal muscle index. results participants consisted of 70 men (mean age 57 ± 10 years) and 62 women (mean age 60 ± 11 years). there were 31 and 101 participants in the low and normal skeletal muscle index groups  respectively. skin autofluorescence was significantly higher in the low skeletal muscle index group compared with the normal skeletal muscle index group (p < 0.01). skin autofluorescence was a significant independent factor associated with low skeletal muscle index based on multivariate logistic regression analysis (odds ratio 15.7  95% confidence interval 1.85-133.01; p = 0.012). the cut-off for skin autofluorescence was 2.45 arbitrary units  with a sensitivity of 0.75 and specificity of 0.91. conclusions skin autofluorescence was an independent factor associated with low skeletal muscle index among middle-aged and older japanese men and women. geriatr gerontol int 2017; 17: 785-790.
900,ethanol extract of allium fistulosum inhibits development of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease,background/objectives non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (nafld) is a leading cause of chronic liver disease and is closely associated with metabolic syndrome. in the present study  we observed the effect of ethanol extract of allium fistulosum (eaf) on nafld and have suggested the possibility of using eaf as a natural product for application in the development of a treatment for nafld. materials/methods the preventive effect on hepatic lipid accumulation was estimated by using an oleic acid (oa)-induced nafld model in vitro and a western diet (high-fat high-sucrose; wd)-induced obese mouse model. animals were divided into three groups (n = 7): normal diet group (nd)  wd group  and wd plus 1% eaf group. results eaf reduced oa-stimulated lipid accumulation in hepg2 cells in the absence of cellular cytotoxicity and significantly blocked transcriptional activation of sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1 and fatty acid synthase genes. subsequently  we investigated these effects in vivo in mice fed either nd or wd in the presence or absence of eaf supplementation. in comparison to the nd controls  the wd-fed mice exhibited increases in body weight  liver weight  epididymal fat weight  and accumulation of fat in hepatocytes  and these effects were significantly attenuated by eaf supplementation. conclusions allium fistulosum attenuates the development of nafld  and eaf elicits anti-lipogenic activity in liver. therefore  eaf represents a promising candidate for use in the development of novel therapeutic drugs or drug combinations for the prevention and treatment of nafld.
902,microrna-29 induces cellular senescence in aging muscle through multiple signaling pathways,the mechanisms underlying the development of aging-induced muscle atrophy are unclear. by microrna array and individual qpcr analyses  we found significant up-regulation of mir-29 in muscles of aged rodents vs. results in young. with aging  p85α  igf-1 and b-myb muscle levels were lower while the expression of certain cell arrest proteins (p53  p16 and prb) increased. when mir-29 was expressed in muscle progenitor cells (mpc)  their proliferation was impaired while sa-βgal expression increased signifying the development of senescence. impaired mpc proliferation resulted from interactions between mir-29 and the 3'-utr of p85a  igf-1 and b-myb  suppressing the translation of these mediators of myoblast proliferation. in vivo  electroporation of mir-29 into muscles of young mice suppressed the proliferation and increased levels of cellular arrest proteins  recapitulating aging-induced responses in muscle. a potential stimulus of mir-29 expression is wnt-3a since we found that exogenous wnt-3a stimulated mir-29 expression 2.7-fold in primary cultures of mpcs. thus  aging-induced muscle senescence results from activation of mir-29 by wnt-3a leading to suppressed expression of several signaling proteins (p85α  igf-1 and b-myb) that act coordinately to impair the proliferation of mpcs contributing to muscle atrophy. the increase in mir-29 provides a potential mechanism for aging-induced sarcopenia.
904,activation of the estrogen receptor through phosphorylation by mitogen-activated protein kinase.,the phosphorylation of the human estrogen receptor (er) serine residue at position 118 is required for full activity of the er activation function 1 (af-1). this ser118 is phosphorylated by mitogen-activated protein kinase (mapk) in vitro and in cells treated with epidermal growth factor (egf) and insulin-like growth factor (igf) in vivo. overexpression of mapk kinase (mapkk) or of the guanine nucleotide binding protein ras  both of which activate mapk  enhanced estrogen-induced and antiestrogen (tamoxifen)-induced transcriptional activity of wild-type er  but not that of a mutant er with an alanine in place of ser118. thus  the activity of the amino-terminal af-1 of the er is modulated by the phosphorylation of ser118 through the ras-mapk cascade of the growth factor signaling pathways.
906,acetylcysteine for prevention of acute deterioration of renal function following elective coronary angiography and intervention: a randomized controlled trial.,context the antioxidant acetylcysteine prevents acute contrast nephrotoxicity in patients with impaired renal function who undergo computed tomography scanning. however  its role in coronary angiography is unclear. objective to determine whether oral acetylcysteine prevents acute deterioration in renal function in patients with moderate renal insufficiency who undergo elective coronary angiography. design and setting prospective  randomized  double-blind  placebo-controlled trial conducted from may 2000 to december 2001 at the grantham hospital at the university of hong kong. participants two hundred chinese patients aged mean (sd) 68 (6.5) years with stable moderate renal insufficiency (creatinine clearance <60 ml/min [1.00 ml/s]) who were undergoing elective coronary angiography with or without intervention. intervention participants were randomly assigned to receive oral acetylcysteine(600 mg twice per day; n = 102) or matching placebo tablets (n = 98) on the day before and the day of angiography. all patients received low-osmolality contrast agent. main outcome measures occurrence of more than a 25% increase in serum creatinine level within 48 hours after contrast administration; change in creatinine clearance and serum creatinine level. results twelve control patients (12%) and 4 acetylcysteine patients (4%) developed a more than 25% increase in serum creatinine level within 48 hours after contrast administration (relative risk  0.32; 95% confidence interval [ci]  0.10-0.96; p =.03). serum creatinine was lower in the acetylcysteine group (1.22 mg/dl [107.8 micromol/l]; 95% ci  1.11-1.33 mg/dl vs 1.38 mg/dl [122.9 micromol/l]; 95% ci  1.27-1.49 mg/dl; p =.006) during the first 48 hours after angiography. acetylcysteine treatment significantly increased creatinine clearance from 44.8 ml/min (0.75 ml/s) (95% ci  42.7-47.6 ml/min) to 58.9 ml/min (0.98 ml/s) (95% ci  55.6-62.3 ml/min) 2 days after the contrast administration (p<.001). the increase was not significant in the control group (from 42.1 to 44.1 ml/min [0.70 to 0.74 ml/s]; p =.15). the benefit of acetylcysteine was consistent among various patient subgroups and persistent for at least 7 days. there were no major treatment-related adverse events. conclusion acetylcysteine protects patients with moderate chronic renal insufficiency from contrast-induced deterioration in renal function after coronary angiographic procedures  with minimal adverse effects and at a low cost.
908,mulberry leaves (morus alba l.) ameliorate obesity-induced hepatic lipogenesis  fibrosis  and oxidative stress in high-fat diet-fed mice,obesity is associated with chronic diseases such as fatty liver  type 2 diabetes  cardiovascular disease  and severe metabolic syndrome. obesity causes metabolic impairment including excessive lipid accumulation and fibrosis in the hepatic tissue as well as the increase in oxidative stress. in order to investigate the effect of mulberry leaf (morus alba l.) extract (mle) on obesity-induced oxidative stress  lipogenesis  and fibrosis in liver  mle has been gavaged for 12 weeks in high-fat diet (hfd)-induced obese mice. mle treatment significantly ameliorated lxrα-mediated lipogenesis and hepatic fibrosis markers such as α-smooth muscle actin  while mle up-regulated lipolysis-associated markers such as lipoprotein lipase in the hfd-fed mice. moreover  mle normalized the activities of antioxidant enzymes including heme oxygenase-1 and glutathione peroxidase in accordance with protein levels of 4-hydroxynonenal in the hfd-fed mice. mle has beneficial effects on obesity-related fatty liver disease by regulation of hepatic lipid metabolism  fibrosis  and antioxidant defense system. mle supplementation might be a potential therapeutic approach for obesity-related disease including non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.
910,the quality of modern cross-sectional ecologic studies: a bibliometric review.,the ecologic study design is routinely used by epidemiologists in spite of its limitations. it is presently unknown how well the challenges of the design are dealt with in epidemiologic research. the purpose of this bibliometric review was to critically evaluate the characteristics  statistical methods  and reporting of results of modern cross-sectional ecologic papers. a search through 6 major epidemiology journals identified all cross-sectional ecologic studies published since january 1  2000. a total of 125 articles met the inclusion requirements and were assessed via common evaluative criteria. it was found that a considerable number of cross-sectional ecologic studies use unreliable methods or contain statistical oversights; most investigators who adjusted their outcomes for age or sex did so improperly (64%)  statistical validity was a potential issue for 20% of regression models  and simple linear regression was the most common analytic approach (31%). many authors omitted important information when discussing the ecologic nature of their study (31%)  the choice of study design (58%)  and the susceptibility of their research to the ecological fallacy (49%). these results suggest that there is a need for an international set of guidelines that standardizes reporting on ecologic studies. additionally  greater attention should be given to the relevant biostatistical literature.
912,anxiety,objectives to examine the effect of routinely administered psychiatric questionnaires on the recognition  management  and outcome of psychiatric disorders in non-psychiatric settings. data sources embase  medline  psyclit  cinahl  cochrane controlled trials register  and hand searches of key journals. methods a systematic review of randomised controlled trials of the administration and routine feedback of psychiatric screening and outcome questionnaires to clinicians in non-psychiatric settings. narrative overview of key design features and end points  together with a random effects quantitative synthesis of comparable studies. main outcome measures recognition of psychiatric disorders after feedback of questionnaire results; interventions for psychiatric disorders; and outcome of psychiatric disorders. results nine randomised studies were identified that examined the use of common psychiatric instruments in primary care and general hospital settings. studies compared the effect of the administration of these instruments followed by the feedback of the results to clinicians  with administration with no feedback. meta-analytic pooling was possible for four of these studies (2457 participants)  which measured the effect of feedback on the recognition of depressive disorders. routine administration and feedback of scores for all patients (irrespective of score) did not increase the overall rate of recognition of mental disorders such as anxiety and depression (relative risk of detection of depression by clinician after feedback 0.95  95% confidence interval 0.83 to 1.09). two studies showed that routine administration followed by selective feedback for only high scorers increased the rate of recognition of depression (relative risk of detection of depression after feedback 2.64  1.62 to 4.31). this increased recognition  however  did not translate into an increased rate of intervention. overall  studies of routine administration of psychiatric measures did not show an effect on patient outcome. conclusions the routine measurement of outcome is a costly exercise. little evidence shows that it is of benefit in improving psychosocial outcomes of those with psychiatric disorder managed in non-psychiatric settings.
914,the effect of n-acetylcysteine in the nucleus accumbens on neurotransmission and relapse to cocaine.,background relapse to cocaine seeking has been linked with low glutamate in the nucleus accumbens core (nacore) causing potentiation of synaptic glutamate transmission from prefrontal cortex (pfc) afferents. systemic n-acetylcysteine (nac) has been shown to restore glutamate homeostasis  reduce relapse to cocaine seeking  and depotentiate pfc-nacore synapses. here  we examine the effects of nac applied directly to the nacore on relapse and neurotransmission in pfc-nacore synapses  as well as the involvement of the metabotropic glutamate receptors 2/3 (mglur2/3) and 5 (mglur5). methods rats were trained to self-administer cocaine for 2 weeks and following extinction received either intra-accumbens nac or systemic nac 30 or 120 minutes  respectively  before inducing reinstatement with a conditioned cue or a combined cue and cocaine injection. we also recorded postsynaptic currents using in vitro whole cell recordings in acute slices and measured cystine and glutamate uptake in primary glial cultures. results nac microinjection into the nacore inhibited the reinstatement of cocaine seeking. in slices  a low concentration of nac reduced the amplitude of evoked glutamatergic synaptic currents in the nacore in an mglur2/3-dependent manner  while high doses of nac increased amplitude in an mglur5-dependent manner. both effects depended on nac uptake through cysteine transporters and activity of the cysteine/glutamate exchanger. finally  we showed that by blocking mglur5 the inhibition of cocaine seeking by nac was potentiated. conclusions the effect of nac on relapse to cocaine seeking depends on the balance between stimulating mglur2/3 and mglur5 in the nacore  and the efficacy of nac can be improved by simultaneously inhibiting mglur5.
916,an integrin β3–kras–ralb complex drives tumour stemness and resistance to egfr inhibition,tumour cells  with stem-like properties  are highly aggressive and often show drug resistance. here  we reveal that integrin αvβ3 serves as a marker of breast  lung and pancreatic carcinomas with stem-like properties that are highly resistant to receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors such as erlotinib. this was observed in vitro and in mice bearing patient-derived tumour xenografts or in clinical specimens from lung cancer patients who had progressed on erlotinib. mechanistically  αvβ3  in the unliganded state  recruits kras and ralb to the tumour cell plasma membrane  leading to the activation of tbk1 and nf-κb. in fact  αvβ3 expression and the resulting kras–ralb–nf-κb pathway were both necessary and sufficient for tumour initiation  anchorage independence  self-renewal and erlotinib resistance. pharmacological targeting of this pathway with bortezomib reversed both tumour stemness and erlotinib resistance. these findings not only identify αvβ3 as a marker/driver of carcinoma stemness but also reveal a therapeutic strategy to sensitize such tumours to rtk inhibition.
918,lncrna neat1/let-7a-5p axis regulates the cisplatin resistance in nasopharyngeal carcinoma by targeting rsf-1 and modulating the ras-mapk pathway.,the long non-coding rna nuclear paraspeckle assembly transcript 1 (neat1) was reported to be upregulated and be involved in oncogenic growth and drug resistance in nasopharyngeal carcinoma (npc). however  the exact roles of neat1 and its underlying mechanisms in the drug resistance of npc remain largely unclear. in this study  the expressions of neat1  let-72-5p and rsf-1 mrna were detected by reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (rt-qpcr). the effects of neat1 and let-72-5p on cell proliferation and cisplatin resistance of npc cells were investigated by 3-(4 5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2 5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide (mtt) assay and 5-ethynyl-20-deoxyuridine (edu) assay. western blot analysis was performed to detect the protein levels of rsf-1  ras  p-raf1  raf1  p-mek1  mek1  p-erk1/2 and erk1/2. xenograft tumor assay was done to elucidate the role of neat1 involved in npc tumor growth in vivo. we found that neat1 was upregulated and let-7a-5p was downregulated in npc tissues  as well as npc cell lines. inhibition of neat1 markedly repressed the cisplatin resistance of npc cells. neat1 was demonstrated to interact with let-7a-5p. besides  a negative correlation between neat1 and let-7a-5p expression was observed in npc tissues. rsf-1 was confirmed as a target of let-7a-5p. neat1 remarkably reversed the inhibitory effect of let-7q-5p on the cisplatin resistance of npc cells in vitro. additionally  neat1 knockdown inhibited the ras-mapk pathway in npc cells. neat1 knockdown suppressed tumor growth in the presence of cisplatin in vivo. overall  these findings suggest that neat1/let-7a-5p axis regulates the cisplatin resistance in npc by targeting rsf-1 and modulating the ras-mapk signaling pathway.
920,exploring and exploiting the systemic effects of deregulated replication licensing.,maintenance and accurate propagation of the genetic material are key features for physiological development and wellbeing. the replication licensing machinery is crucial for replication precision as it ensures that replication takes place once per cell cycle. thus  the expression status of the components comprising the replication licensing apparatus is tightly regulated to avoid re-replication; a form of replication stress that leads to genomic instability  a hallmark of cancer. in the present review we discuss the mechanistic basis of replication licensing deregulation  which leads to systemic effects  exemplified by its role in carcinogenesis and a variety of genetic syndromes. in addition  new insights demonstrate that above a particular threshold  the replication licensing factor cdc6 acts as global transcriptional regulator  outlining new lines of exploration. the role of the putative replication licensing factor chlr1/ddx11  mutated in the warsaw breakage syndrome  in cancer is also considered. finally  future perspectives focused on the potential therapeutic advantage by targeting replication licensing factors  and particularly cdc6  are discussed.
922,neonatal mortality levels for 193 countries in 2009 with trends since 1990: a systematic analysis of progress  projections  and priorities,background historically  the main focus of studies of childhood mortality has been the infant and under-five mortality rates. neonatal mortality (deaths <28 days of age) has received limited attention  although such deaths account for about 41% of all child deaths. to better assess progress  we developed annual estimates for neonatal mortality rates (nmrs) and neonatal deaths for 193 countries for the period 1990-2009 with forecasts into the future. methods and findings we compiled a database of mortality in neonates and children (<5 years) comprising 3 551 country-years of information. reliable civil registration data from 1990 to 2009 were available for 38 countries. a statistical model was developed to estimate nmrs for the remaining 155 countries  17 of which had no national data. country consultation was undertaken to identify data inputs and review estimates. in 2009  an estimated 3.3 million babies died in the first month of life-compared with 4.6 million neonatal deaths in 1990-and more than half of all neonatal deaths occurred in five countries of the world (44% of global livebirths): india 27.8% (19.6% of global livebirths)  nigeria 7.2% (4.5%)  pakistan 6.9% (4.0%)  china 6.4% (13.4%)  and democratic republic of the congo 4.6% (2.1%). between 1990 and 2009  the global nmr declined by 28% from 33.2 deaths per 1 000 livebirths to 23.9. the proportion of child deaths that are in the neonatal period increased in all regions of the world  and globally is now 41%. while nmrs were halved in some regions of the world  africa's nmr only dropped 17.6% (43.6 to 35.9). conclusions neonatal mortality has declined in all world regions. progress has been slowest in the regions with high nmrs. global health programs need to address neonatal deaths more effectively if millennium development goal 4 (two-thirds reduction in child mortality) is to be achieved.
924,mortality risk attributable to high and low ambient temperature: a multicountry observational study,background although studies have provided estimates of premature deaths attributable to either heat or cold in selected countries  none has so far offered a systematic assessment across the whole temperature range in populations exposed to different climates. we aimed to quantify the total mortality burden attributable to non-optimum ambient temperature  and the relative contributions from heat and cold and from moderate and extreme temperatures. methods we collected data for 384 locations in australia  brazil  canada  china  italy  japan  south korea  spain  sweden  taiwan  thailand  uk  and usa. we fitted a standard time-series poisson model for each location  controlling for trends and day of the week. we estimated temperature-mortality associations with a distributed lag non-linear model with 21 days of lag  and then pooled them in a multivariate metaregression that included country indicators and temperature average and range. we calculated attributable deaths for heat and cold  defined as temperatures above and below the optimum temperature  which corresponded to the point of minimum mortality  and for moderate and extreme temperatures  defined using cutoffs at the 2·5th and 97·5th temperature percentiles. findings we analysed 74 225 200 deaths in various periods between 1985 and 2012. in total  7·71% (95% empirical ci 7·43-7·91) of mortality was attributable to non-optimum temperature in the selected countries within the study period  with substantial differences between countries  ranging from 3·37% (3·06 to 3·63) in thailand to 11·00% (9·29 to 12·47) in china. the temperature percentile of minimum mortality varied from roughly the 60th percentile in tropical areas to about the 80-90th percentile in temperate regions. more temperature-attributable deaths were caused by cold (7·29%  7·02-7·49) than by heat (0·42%  0·39-0·44). extreme cold and hot temperatures were responsible for 0·86% (0·84-0·87) of total mortality. interpretation most of the temperature-related mortality burden was attributable to the contribution of cold. the effect of days of extreme temperature was substantially less than that attributable to milder but non-optimum weather. this evidence has important implications for the planning of public-health interventions to minimise the health consequences of adverse temperatures  and for predictions of future effect in climate-change scenarios. funding uk medical research council.
926,β1 integrin mediates an alternative survival pathway in breast cancer cells resistant to lapatinib,introduction the overexpression of human epidermal growth factor receptor (her)-2 in 20% of human breast cancers and its association with aggressive growth has led to widespread use of her2-targeted therapies  such as trastuzumab (t) and lapatinib (l). despite the success of these drugs  their efficacy is limited in patients whose tumors demonstrate de novo or acquired resistance to treatment. the β1 integrin resides on the membrane of the breast cancer cell  activating several elements of breast tumor progression including proliferation and survival. methods we developed a panel of her2-overexpressing cell lines resistant to l  t  and the potent lt combination through long-term exposure and validated these models in 3d culture. parental and l/t/lt-resistant cells were subject to her2 and β1 integrin inhibitors in 3d and monitored for 12 days  followed by quantification of colony number. parallel experiments were conducted where cells were either stained for ki-67 and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dutp nick end labeling (tunel) or harvested for protein and analyzed by immunoblot. results were subjected to statistical testing using analysis of variance and linear contrasts  followed by adjustment with the sidak method. results using multiple cell lines including bt474 and hcc1954  we reveal that in l and lt resistance  where phosphorylation of egfr/her1  her2  and her3 are strongly inhibited  kinases downstream of β1 integrin--including focal adhesion kinase (fak) and src--are up-regulated. blockade of β1 by the antibody aiib2 abrogates this up-regulation and functionally achieves significant growth inhibition of l and lt resistant cells in 3d  without dramatically affecting the parental cells. sirna against β1 as well as pharmacologic inhibition of fak achieve the same growth inhibitory effect. in contrast  trastuzumab-resistant cells  which retain high levels of phosphorylated egfr/her1  her2  and her3  are only modestly growth-inhibited by aiib2. conclusions our data suggest that her2 activity  which is suppressed in resistance involving l but not t alone  dictates whether β1 mediates an alternative pathway driving resistance. our findings justify clinical studies investigating the inhibition of β1 or its downstream signaling moieties as strategies to overcome acquired l and lt resistance.
928,body-mass index and risk of 22 specific cancers: a population-based cohort study of 5·24 million uk adults,background high body-mass index (bmi) predisposes to several site-specific cancers  but a large-scale systematic and detailed characterisation of patterns of risk across all common cancers adjusted for potential confounders has not previously been undertaken. we aimed to investigate the links between bmi and the most common site-specific cancers. methods with primary care data from individuals in the clinical practice research datalink with bmi data  we fitted cox models to investigate associations between bmi and 22 of the most common cancers  adjusting for potential confounders. we fitted linear then non-linear (spline) models; investigated effect modification by sex  menopausal status  smoking  and age; and calculated population effects. findings 5·24 million individuals were included; 166 955 developed cancers of interest. bmi was associated with 17 of 22 cancers  but effects varied substantially by site. each 5 kg/m(2) increase in bmi was roughly linearly associated with cancers of the uterus (hazard ratio [hr] 1·62  99% ci 1·56-1·69; p<0·0001)  gallbladder (1·31  1·12-1·52; p<0·0001)  kidney (1·25  1·17-1·33; p<0·0001)  cervix (1·10  1·03-1·17; p=0·00035)  thyroid (1·09  1·00-1·19; p=0·0088)  and leukaemia (1·09  1·05-1·13; p≤0·0001). bmi was positively associated with liver (1·19  1·12-1·27)  colon (1·10  1·07-1·13)  ovarian (1·09  1.04-1.14)  and postmenopausal breast cancers (1·05  1·03-1·07) overall (all p<0·0001)  but these effects varied by underlying bmi or individual-level characteristics. we estimated inverse associations with prostate and premenopausal breast cancer risk  both overall (prostate 0·98  0·95-1·00; premenopausal breast cancer 0·89  0·86-0·92) and in never-smokers (prostate 0·96  0·93-0·99; premenopausal breast cancer 0·89  0·85-0·94). by contrast  for lung and oral cavity cancer  we observed no association in never smokers (lung 0·99  0·93-1·05; oral cavity 1·07  0·91-1·26): inverse associations overall were driven by current smokers and ex-smokers  probably because of residual confounding by smoking amount. assuming causality  41% of uterine and 10% or more of gallbladder  kidney  liver  and colon cancers could be attributable to excess weight. we estimated that a 1 kg/m(2) population-wide increase in bmi would result in 3790 additional annual uk patients developing one of the ten cancers positively associated with bmi. interpretation bmi is associated with cancer risk  with substantial population-level effects. the heterogeneity in the effects suggests that different mechanisms are associated with different cancer sites and different patient subgroups. funding national institute for health research  wellcome trust  and medical research council.
930,asymptotic and resampling strategies for assessing and comparing indirect effects in multiple mediator models.,hypotheses involving mediation are common in the behavioral sciences. mediation exists when a predictor affects a dependent variable indirectly through at least one intervening variable  or mediator. methods to assess mediation involving multiple simultaneous mediators have received little attention in the methodological literature despite a clear need. we provide an overview of simple and multiple mediation and explore three approaches that can be used to investigate indirect processes  as well as methods for contrasting two or more mediators within a single model. we present an illustrative example  assessing and contrasting potential mediators of the relationship between the helpfulness of socialization agents and job satisfaction. we also provide sas and spss macros  as well as mplus and lisrel syntax  to facilitate the use of these methods in applications.
932,the expanding problem of adipose depot remodeling and postnatal adipocyte progenitor recruitment.,the rising incidence of obesity and associated metabolic diseases has increased the urgency in understanding all aspects of adipose tissue biology. this includes the function of adipocytes  how adipose tissue expands in obesity  and how expanded adipose tissues in adults can impact physiology. here  we highlight the growing appreciation for the importance of de novo adipocyte differentiation to adipose tissue expansion in adult humans and animals. we detail recent efforts to identify adipose precursor populations that contribute to the physiological postnatal recruitment of white  brown  and beige adipocytes in mice  and summarize new data that reveal the complexity of adipose tissue development in vivo.
934,open babel: an open chemical toolbox,background a frequent problem in computational modeling is the interconversion of chemical structures between different formats. while standard interchange formats exist (for example  chemical markup language) and de facto standards have arisen (for example  smiles format)   the need to interconvert formats is a continuing problem due to the multitude of different application areas for chemistry data  differences in the data stored by different formats (0d versus 3d  for example)  and competition between software along with a lack of vendor-neutral formats. results we discuss  for the first time  open babel  an open-source chemical toolbox that speaks the many languages of chemical data. open babel version 2.3 interconverts over 110 formats. the need to represent such a wide variety of chemical and molecular data requires a library that implements a wide range of cheminformatics algorithms  from partial charge assignment and aromaticity detection  to bond order perception and canonicalization. we detail the implementation of open babel  describe key advances in the 2.3 release  and outline a variety of uses both in terms of software products and scientific research  including applications far beyond simple format interconversion. conclusions open babel presents a solution to the proliferation of multiple chemical file formats. in addition  it provides a variety of useful utilities from conformer searching and 2d depiction  to filtering  batch conversion  and substructure and similarity searching. for developers  it can be used as a programming library to handle chemical data in areas such as organic chemistry  drug design  materials science  and computational chemistry. it is freely available under an open-source license from http://openbabel.org.
936,antiretroviral therapy for prevention of tuberculosis in adults with hiv: a systematic review and meta-analysis,background human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection is the strongest risk factor for developing tuberculosis and has fuelled its resurgence  especially in sub-saharan africa. in 2010  there were an estimated 1.1 million incident cases of tuberculosis among the 34 million people living with hiv worldwide. antiretroviral therapy has substantial potential to prevent hiv-associated tuberculosis. we conducted a systematic review of studies that analysed the impact of antiretroviral therapy on the incidence of tuberculosis in adults with hiv infection. methods and findings pubmed  embase  african index medicus  lilacs  and clinical trial registries were systematically searched. randomised controlled trials  prospective cohort studies  and retrospective cohort studies were included if they compared tuberculosis incidence by antiretroviral therapy status in hiv-infected adults for a median of over 6 mo in developing countries. for the meta-analyses there were four categories based on cd4 counts at antiretroviral therapy initiation: (1) less than 200 cells/µl  (2) 200 to 350 cells/µl  (3) greater than 350 cells/µl  and (4) any cd4 count. eleven studies met the inclusion criteria. antiretroviral therapy is strongly associated with a reduction in the incidence of tuberculosis in all baseline cd4 count categories: (1) less than 200 cells/µl (hazard ratio [hr] 0.16  95% confidence interval [ci] 0.07 to 0.36)  (2) 200 to 350 cells/µl (hr 0.34  95% ci 0.19 to 0.60)  (3) greater than 350 cells/µl (hr 0.43  95% ci 0.30 to 0.63)  and (4) any cd4 count (hr 0.35  95% ci 0.28 to 0.44). there was no evidence of hazard ratio modification with respect to baseline cd4 count category (p = 0.20). conclusions antiretroviral therapy is strongly associated with a reduction in the incidence of tuberculosis across all cd4 count strata. earlier initiation of antiretroviral therapy may be a key component of global and national strategies to control the hiv-associated tuberculosis syndemic. review registration international prospective register of systematic reviews crd42011001209 please see later in the article for the editors' summary.
938,loss of tdp43 inhibits progression of triple-negative breast cancer in coordination with srsf3,aberrant alternative splicing has been highlighted as a potential hallmark of cancer. here  we identify tdp43 (tar dna-binding protein 43) as an important splicing regulator responsible for the unique splicing profile in triple-negative breast cancer (tnbc). clinical data demonstrate that tdp43 is highly expressed in tnbc with poor prognosis. knockdown of tdp43 inhibits tumor progression  including proliferation and metastasis  and overexpression of tdp43 promotes proliferation and malignancy of mammary epithelial cells. deep sequencing analysis and functional experiments indicate that tdp43 alters most splicing events with splicing factor srsf3 (serine/arginine-rich splicing factor 3)  in the regulation of tnbc progression. the tdp43/srsf3 complex controls specific splicing events  including downstream genes par3 and numb the effect of reduced metastasis and proliferation upon the knockdown of tdp43 or srsf3 is mediated by the splicing regulation of par3 and numb exon 12  respectively. the tdp43/srsf3 complex and downstream par3 isoform are potential therapeutic targets for tnbc.
940,pioneer factor pax7 deploys a stable enhancer repertoire for specification of cell fate,pioneer transcription factors establish new cell-fate competence by triggering chromatin remodeling. however  many features of pioneer action  such as their kinetics and stability  remain poorly defined. here  we show that pax7  by opening a unique repertoire of enhancers  is necessary and sufficient for specification of one pituitary lineage. pax7 binds its targeted enhancers rapidly  but chromatin remodeling and gene activation are slower. enhancers opened by pax7 show a loss of dna methylation and acquire stable epigenetic memory  as evidenced by binding of nonpioneer factors after pax7 withdrawal. this work shows that transient pax7 expression is sufficient for stable specification of cell identity. analysis of pax7 dynamics during pituitary lineage specification shows that pax7 binds rapidly at uniquely marked heterochromatin pioneer sites and initiates chromatin opening that remains stable after pax7 withdrawal  with loss of dna hypermethylation at pioneered enhancers.
942,low drug levels and thrombotic complications in high‐risk atrial fibrillation patients treated with direct oral anticoagulants,essentials direct oral anticoagulants (doacs) do not require laboratory monitoring currently. doac specific measurements were performed at trough in patients with atrial fibrillation. patients who developed thromboembolic events showed lower doac plasma levels. this study supports the concept of measuring doac levels at steady state. summary background direct oral anticoagulants (doacs) are administered at fixed doses without the need for dose adjustment according to laboratory testing. high interindividual variability in drug blood levels has been shown with all doacs. to evaluate a possible relationship between doac c-trough anticoagulant levels and thromboembolic events  565 consecutive naive patients with atrial fibrillation (af) were enrolled in this study performed within the start laboratory registry. methods doac-specific measurements (diluted thrombin time or anti-activated factor ii calibrated for dabigatran; anti-activated fx calibrated for rivaroxaban or apixaban) at c-trough were performed locally at steady state within 15-25 days after the start of treatment. for each doac  the interval of c-trough levels  from the limit of quantification to the highest value  was subdivided into four equal classes  and results were attributed to these classes; the median values of results were also calculated. thromboembolic complications occurring during 1 year of follow-up were recorded. results thromboembolic events (1.8%) occurred in 10 patients who had baseline c-trough levels in the lowest class of drug levels. the incidence of thromboembolic events among patients with doac c-trough levels in the lowest level class was 2.4%  and that in the remaining groups was 0%. the patients with thrombotic complications also had a higher mean cha2 ds2 -vasc score than that of the total patient population: 5.3 (95% confidence interval [ci] 4.3-6.3 versus 3.0 (95% ci 2.9-3.1). conclusion in this study cohort  thrombotic complications occurred only in doac-treated af patients who had very low c-trough levels  with a relatively high cha2 ds2 -vasc score. larger studies are warranted to confirm these preliminary observations.
944,long-term erk inhibition in kras-mutant pancreatic cancer is associated with myc degradation and senescence-like growth suppression.,induction of compensatory mechanisms and erk reactivation has limited the effectiveness of raf and mek inhibitors in ras-mutant cancers. we determined that direct pharmacologic inhibition of erk suppressed the growth of a subset of kras-mutant pancreatic cancer cell lines and that concurrent phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (pi3k) inhibition caused synergistic cell death. additional combinations that enhanced erk inhibitor action were also identified. unexpectedly  long-term treatment of sensitive cell lines caused senescence  mediated in part by myc degradation and p16 reactivation. enhanced basal pi3k-akt-mtor signaling was associated with de novo resistance to erk inhibitor  as were other protein kinases identified by kinome-wide sirna screening and a genetic gain-of-function screen. our findings reveal distinct consequences of inhibiting this kinase cascade at the level of erk.
946,macrophages facilitate electrical conduction in the heart,organ-specific functions of tissue-resident macrophages in the steady-state heart are unknown. here  we show that cardiac macrophages facilitate electrical conduction through the distal atrioventricular node  where conducting cells densely intersperse with elongated macrophages expressing connexin 43. when coupled to spontaneously beating cardiomyocytes via connexin-43-containing gap junctions  cardiac macrophages have a negative resting membrane potential and depolarize in synchrony with cardiomyocytes. conversely  macrophages render the resting membrane potential of cardiomyocytes more positive and  according to computational modeling  accelerate their repolarization. photostimulation of channelrhodopsin-2-expressing macrophages improves atrioventricular conduction  whereas conditional deletion of connexin 43 in macrophages and congenital lack of macrophages delay atrioventricular conduction. in the cd11bdtr mouse  macrophage ablation induces progressive atrioventricular block. these observations implicate macrophages in normal and aberrant cardiac conduction.
948,cardiac neural crest contributes to cardiomyogenesis in zebrafish.,in birds and mammals  cardiac neural crest is essential for heart development and contributes to conotruncal cushion formation and outflow tract septation. the zebrafish prototypical heart lacks outflow tract septation  raising the question of whether cardiac neural crest exists in zebrafish. here  results from three distinct lineage-labeling approaches identify zebrafish cardiac neural crest cells and indicate that these cells have the ability to generate mf20-positive muscle cells in the myocardium of the major chambers during development. fate-mapping demonstrates that cardiac neural crest cells originate both from neural tube regions analogous to those found in birds  as well as from a novel region rostral to the otic vesicle. in contrast to other vertebrates  cardiac neural crest invades the myocardium in all segments of the heart  including outflow tract  atrium  atrioventricular junction  and ventricle in zebrafish. three distinct groups of premigratory neural crest along the rostrocaudal axis have different propensities to contribute to different segments in the heart and are correspondingly marked by unique combinations of gene expression patterns. zebrafish will serve as a model for understanding interactions between cardiac neural crest and cardiovascular development.
950,high-throughput genetic screens identify a large and diverse collection of new sporulation genes in bacillus subtilis,the differentiation of the bacterium bacillus subtilis into a dormant spore is among the most well-characterized developmental pathways in biology. classical genetic screens performed over the past half century identified scores of factors involved in every step of this morphological process. more recently  transcriptional profiling uncovered additional sporulation-induced genes required for successful spore development. here  we used transposon-sequencing (tn-seq) to assess whether there were any sporulation genes left to be discovered. our screen identified 133 out of the 148 genes with known sporulation defects. surprisingly  we discovered 24 additional genes that had not been previously implicated in spore formation. to investigate their functions  we used fluorescence microscopy to survey early  middle  and late stages of differentiation of null mutants from the b. subtilis ordered knockout collection. this analysis identified mutants that are delayed in the initiation of sporulation  defective in membrane remodeling  and impaired in spore maturation. several mutants had novel sporulation phenotypes. we performed in-depth characterization of two new factors that participate in cell-cell signaling pathways during sporulation. one (spoiit) functions in the activation of σe in the mother cell; the other (spoiiil) is required for σg activity in the forespore. our analysis also revealed that as many as 36 sporulation-induced genes with no previously reported mutant phenotypes are required for timely spore maturation. finally  we discovered a large set of transposon insertions that trigger premature initiation of sporulation. our results highlight the power of tn-seq for the discovery of new genes and novel pathways in sporulation and  combined with the recently completed null mutant collection  open the door for similar screens in other  less well-characterized processes.
952,elevation of circulating branched-chain amino acids is an early event in human pancreatic adenocarcinoma development,most patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (pdac) are diagnosed with advanced disease and survive less than 12 months. pdac has been linked with obesity and glucose intolerance  but whether changes in circulating metabolites are associated with early cancer progression is unknown. to better understand metabolic derangements associated with early disease  we profiled metabolites in prediagnostic plasma from individuals with pancreatic cancer (cases) and matched controls from four prospective cohort studies. we find that elevated plasma levels of branched-chain amino acids (bcaas) are associated with a greater than twofold increased risk of future pancreatic cancer diagnosis. this elevated risk was independent of known predisposing factors  with the strongest association observed among subjects with samples collected 2 to 5 years before diagnosis  when occult disease is probably present. we show that plasma bcaas are also elevated in mice with early-stage pancreatic cancers driven by mutant kras expression but not in mice with kras-driven tumors in other tissues  and that breakdown of tissue protein accounts for the increase in plasma bcaas that accompanies early-stage disease. together  these findings suggest that increased whole-body protein breakdown is an early event in development of pdac.
954,transdifferentiation of glioblastoma cells into vascular endothelial cells.,glioblastoma (gbm) is the most malignant brain tumor and is highly resistant to intensive combination therapies and anti-vegf therapies. to assess the resistance mechanism to anti-vegf therapy  we examined the vessels of gbms in tumors that were induced by the transduction of p53(+/-) heterozygous mice with lentiviral vectors containing oncogenes and the marker gfp in the hippocampus of gfap-cre recombinase (cre) mice. we were surprised to observe gfp(+) vascular endothelial cells (ecs). transplantation of mouse gbm cells revealed that the tumor-derived endothelial cells (tdecs) originated from tumor-initiating cells and did not result from cell fusion of ecs and tumor cells. an in vitro differentiation assay suggested that hypoxia is an important factor in the differentiation of tumor cells to ecs and is independent of vegf. tdec formation was not only resistant to an anti-vegf receptor inhibitor in mouse gbms but it led to an increase in their frequency. a xenograft model of human gbm spheres from clinical specimens and direct clinical samples from patients with gbm also showed the presence of tdecs. we suggest that the tdec is an important player in the resistance to anti-vegf therapy  and hence a potential target for gbm therapy.
956,combining indoor residual spraying and insecticide-treated nets for malaria control in africa: a review of possible outcomes and an outline of suggestions for the future,insecticide-treated nets (itns) and indoor residual spraying (irs) are currently the preferred methods of malaria vector control. in many cases  these methods are used together in the same households  especially to suppress transmission in holoendemic and hyperendemic scenarios. though widespread  there has been limited evidence suggesting that such co-application confers greater protective benefits than either itns or irs when used alone. since both methods are insecticide-based and intradomicilliary  this article hypothesises that outcomes of their combination would depend on effects of the candidate active ingredients on mosquitoes that enter or those that attempt to enter houses. it is suggested here that enhanced household level protection can be achieved if the itns and irs have divergent yet complementary properties  e.g. highly deterrent irs compounds coupled with highly toxic itns. to ensure that the problem of insecticide resistance is avoided  the itns and irs products should preferably be of different insecticide classes  e.g. pyrethroid-based nets combined with organophosphate or carbamate based irs. the overall community benefits would however depend also on other factors such as proportion of people covered by the interventions and the behaviour of vector species. this article concludes by emphasizing the need for basic and operational research  including mathematical modelling to evaluate irs/itn combinations in comparison to irs alone or itns alone.
958,the embryonic cell lineage of the nematode caenorhabditis elegans.,the embryonic cell lineage of caenorhabditis elegans has been traced from zygote to newly hatched larva  with the result that the entire cell lineage of this organism is now known. during embryogenesis 671 cells are generated; in the hermaphrodite 113 of these (in the male 111) undergo programmed death and the remainder either differentiate terminally or become postembryonic blast cells. the embryonic lineage is highly invariant  as are the fates of the cells to which it gives rise. in spite of the fixed relationship between cell ancestry and cell fate  the correlation between them lacks much obvious pattern. thus  although most neurons arise from the embryonic ectoderm  some are produced by the mesoderm and a few are sisters to muscles; again  lineal boundaries do not necessarily coincide with functional boundaries. nevertheless  cell ablation experiments (as well as previous cell isolation experiments) demonstrate substantial cell autonomy in at least some sections of embryogenesis. we conclude that the cell lineage itself  complex as it is  plays an important role in determining cell fate. we discuss the origin of the repeat units (partial segments) in the body wall  the generation of the various orders of symmetry  the analysis of the lineage in terms of sublineages  and evolutionary implications.
960,chronic inflammation (inflammaging) and its potential contribution to age-associated diseases.,human aging is characterized by a chronic  low-grade inflammation  and this phenomenon has been termed as "inflammaging. " inflammaging is a highly significant risk factor for both morbidity and mortality in the elderly people  as most if not all age-related diseases share an inflammatory pathogenesis. nevertheless  the precise etiology of inflammaging and its potential causal role in contributing to adverse health outcomes remain largely unknown. the identification of pathways that control age-related inflammation across multiple systems is therefore important in order to understand whether treatments that modulate inflammaging may be beneficial in old people. the session on inflammation of the advances in gerosciences meeting held at the national institutes of health/national institute on aging in bethesda on october 30 and 31  2013 was aimed at defining these important unanswered questions about inflammaging. this article reports the main outcomes of this session.
962,neural crest-derived stem cells migrate and differentiate into cardiomyocytes after myocardial infarction.,objective we recently demonstrated that primitive neural crest-derived (nc) cells migrate from the cardiac neural crest during embryonic development and remain in the heart as dormant stem cells  with the capacity to differentiate into various cell types  including cardiomyocytes. here  we examined the migration and differentiation potential of these cells on myocardial infarction (mi). methods and results we obtained double-transgenic mice by crossing protein-0 promoter-cre mice with floxed-enhanced green fluorescent protein mice  in which the nc cells express enhanced green fluorescent protein. in the neonatal heart  nc stem cells (ncscs) were localized predominantly in the outflow tract  but they were also distributed in a gradient from base to apex throughout the ventricular myocardium. time-lapse video analysis revealed that the ncscs were migratory. some ncscs persisted in the adult heart. on mi  ncscs accumulated at the ischemic border zone area (bza)  which expresses monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (mcp-1). ex vivo cell migration assays demonstrated that mcp-1 induced ncsc migration and that this chemotactic effect was significantly depressed by an anti-mcp-1 antibody. small nc cardiomyocytes first appeared in the bza 2 weeks post-mi and gradually increased in number thereafter. conclusions these results suggested that ncscs migrate into the bza via mcp-1/ccr2 signaling and contribute to the provision of cardiomyocytes for cardiac regeneration after mi.
964,caspase-11 promotes the fusion of phagosomes harboring pathogenic bacteria with lysosomes by modulating actin polymerization.,inflammasomes are multiprotein complexes that include members of the nlr (nucleotide-binding domain leucine-rich repeat containing) family and caspase-1. once bacterial molecules are sensed within the macrophage  the inflammasome is assembled  mediating the activation of caspase-1. caspase-11 mediates caspase-1 activation in response to lipopolysaccharide and bacterial toxins  and yet its role during bacterial infection is unknown. here  we demonstrated that caspase-11 was dispensable for caspase-1 activation in response to legionella  salmonella  francisella  and listeria. we also determined that active mouse caspase-11 was required for restriction of l. pneumophila infection. similarly  human caspase-4 and caspase-5  homologs of mouse caspase-11  cooperated to restrict l. pneumophila infection in human macrophages. caspase-11 promoted the fusion of the l. pneumophila vacuole with lysosomes by modulating actin polymerization through cofilin. however  caspase-11 was dispensable for the fusion of lysosomes with phagosomes containing nonpathogenic bacteria  uncovering a fundamental difference in the trafficking of phagosomes according to their cargo.
966,chronic variable stress activates hematopoietic stem cells,exposure to psychosocial stress is a risk factor for many diseases  including atherosclerosis. although incompletely understood  interaction between the psyche and the immune system provides one potential mechanism linking stress and disease inception and progression. known cross-talk between the brain and immune system includes the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis  which centrally drives glucocorticoid production in the adrenal cortex  and the sympathetic-adrenal-medullary axis  which controls stress-induced catecholamine release in support of the fight-or-flight reflex. it remains unknown  however  whether chronic stress changes hematopoietic stem cell activity. here we show that stress increases proliferation of these most primitive hematopoietic progenitors  giving rise to higher levels of disease-promoting inflammatory leukocytes. we found that chronic stress induced monocytosis and neutrophilia in humans. while investigating the source of leukocytosis in mice  we discovered that stress activates upstream hematopoietic stem cells. under conditions of chronic variable stress in mice  sympathetic nerve fibers released surplus noradrenaline  which signaled bone marrow niche cells to decrease cxcl12 levels through the β3-adrenergic receptor. consequently  hematopoietic stem cell proliferation was elevated  leading to an increased output of neutrophils and inflammatory monocytes. when atherosclerosis-prone apoe(-/-) mice were subjected to chronic stress  accelerated hematopoiesis promoted plaque features associated with vulnerable lesions that cause myocardial infarction and stroke in humans.
968,the global spread of hepatitis c virus 1a and 1b: a phylodynamic and phylogeographic analysis,background hepatitis c virus (hcv) is estimated to affect 130-180 million people worldwide. although its origin is unknown  patterns of viral diversity suggest that hcv genotype 1 probably originated from west africa. previous attempts to estimate the spatiotemporal parameters of the virus  both globally and regionally  have suggested that epidemic hcv transmission began in 1900 and grew steadily until the late 1980s. however  epidemiological data suggest that the expansion of hcv may have occurred after the second world war. the aim of our study was to elucidate the timescale and route of the global spread of hcv. methods and findings we show that the rarely sequenced hcv region (e2p7ns2) is more informative for molecular epidemiology studies than the more commonly used ns5b region. we applied phylodynamic methods to a substantial set of new e2p7ns2 and ns5b sequences  together with all available global hcv sequences with information in both of these genomic regions  in order to estimate the timescale and nature of the global expansion of the most prevalent hcv subtypes  1a and 1b. we showed that transmission of subtypes 1a and 1b "exploded" between 1940 and 1980  with the spread of 1b preceding that of 1a by at least 16 y (95% confidence interval 15-17). phylogeographic analysis of all available ns5b sequences suggests that hcv subtypes 1a and 1b disseminated from the developed world to the developing countries. conclusions the evolutionary rate of hcv appears faster than previously suggested. the global spread of hcv coincided with the widespread use of transfused blood and blood products and with the expansion of intravenous drug use but slowed prior to the wide implementation of anti-hcv screening. differences in the transmission routes associated with subtypes 1a and 1b provide an explanation of the relatively earlier expansion of 1b. our data show that the most plausible route of the hcv dispersal was from developed countries to the developing world. please see later in the article for the editors' summary.
970,a library of yeast transcription factor motifs reveals a widespread function for rsc3 in targeting nucleosome exclusion at promoters.,the sequence specificity of dna-binding proteins is the primary mechanism by which the cell recognizes genomic features. here  we describe systematic determination of yeast transcription factor dna-binding specificities. we obtained binding specificities for 112 dna-binding proteins representing 19 distinct structural classes. one-third of the binding specificities have not been previously reported. several binding sequences have striking genomic distributions relative to transcription start sites  supporting their biological relevance and suggesting a role in promoter architecture. among these are rsc3 binding sequences  containing the core cgcg  which are found preferentially approximately 100 bp upstream of transcription start sites. mutation of rsc3 results in a dramatic increase in nucleosome occupancy in hundreds of proximal promoters containing a rsc3 binding element  but has little impact on promoters lacking rsc3 binding sequences  indicating that rsc3 plays a broad role in targeting nucleosome exclusion at yeast promoters.
972,chimeric antigen receptor-modified t cells for acute lymphoid leukemia.,chimeric antigen receptor-modified t cells with specificity for cd19 have shown promise in the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (cll). it remains to be established whether chimeric antigen receptor t cells have clinical activity in acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all). two children with relapsed and refractory pre-b-cell all received infusions of t cells transduced with anti-cd19 antibody and a t-cell signaling molecule (ctl019 chimeric antigen receptor t cells)  at a dose of 1.4×10(6) to 1.2×10(7) ctl019 cells per kilogram of body weight. in both patients  ctl019 t cells expanded to a level that was more than 1000 times as high as the initial engraftment level  and the cells were identified in bone marrow. in addition  the chimeric antigen receptor t cells were observed in the cerebrospinal fluid (csf)  where they persisted at high levels for at least 6 months. eight grade 3 or 4 adverse events were noted. the cytokine-release syndrome and b-cell aplasia developed in both patients. in one child  the cytokine-release syndrome was severe; cytokine blockade with etanercept and tocilizumab was effective in reversing the syndrome and did not prevent expansion of chimeric antigen receptor t cells or reduce antileukemic efficacy. complete remission was observed in both patients and is ongoing in one patient at 11 months after treatment. the other patient had a relapse  with blast cells that no longer expressed cd19  approximately 2 months after treatment. chimeric antigen receptor-modified t cells are capable of killing even aggressive  treatment-refractory acute leukemia cells in vivo. the emergence of tumor cells that no longer express the target indicates a need to target other molecules in addition to cd19 in some patients with all.
974,suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 inhibits antiviral ifn-beta signaling to enhance hiv-1 replication in macrophages.,hiv-1 replication within macrophages of the cns often results in cognitive and motor impairment  which is known as hiv-associated dementia (had) in its most severe form. ifn-beta suppresses viral replication within these cells during early cns infection  but the effect is transient. hiv-1 eventually overcomes this protective innate immune response to resume replication through an unknown mechanism  initiating the progression toward had. in this article  we show that suppressor of cytokine signaling (socs)3  a molecular inhibitor of ifn signaling  may allow hiv-1 to evade innate immunity within the cns. we found that socs3 is elevated in an in vivo siv/macaque model of had and that the pattern of expression correlates with recurrence of viral replication and onset of cns disease. in vitro  the hiv-1 regulatory protein transactivator of transcription induces socs3 in human and murine macrophages in a nf-kappab-dependent manner. socs3 expression attenuates the response of macrophages to ifn-beta at proximal levels of pathway activation and downstream antiviral gene expression and consequently overcomes the inhibitory effect of ifn-beta on hiv-1 replication. these studies indicate that socs3 expression  induced by stimuli present in the hiv-1-infected brain  such as transactivator of transcription  inhibits antiviral ifn-beta signaling to enhance hiv-1 replication in macrophages. this consequence of socs3 expression in vitro  supported by a correlation with increased viral load and onset of cns disease in vivo  suggests that socs3 may allow hiv-1 to evade the protective innate immune response within the cns  allowing the recurrence of viral replication and  ultimately  promoting progression toward had.
976,urinary bisphenol a concentrations and early reproductive health outcomes among women undergoing ivf.,study question in women undergoing ivf  are urinary bisphenol a (bpa) concentrations associated with ovarian response and early reproductive outcomes  including oocyte maturation and fertilization  day 3 embryo quality and blastocyst formation? summary answer higher urinary bpa concentrations were found to be associated with decreased ovarian response  number of fertilized oocytes and decreased blastocyst formation. what is known already experimental animal and in vitro studies have reported associations between bpa exposure and adverse reproductive outcomes. we previously reported an association between urinary bpa and decreased ovarian response [peak serum estradiol (e(2)) and oocyte count at the time of retrieval] in women undergoing ivf; however  there are limited human data on reproductive health outcomes  such as fertilization and embryo development. study design  size and duration prospective preconception cohort study. one hundred and seventy-four women aged 18-45 years and undergoing 237 ivf cycles were recruited at the massachusetts general hospital fertility center  boston  ma  usa  between november 2004 and august 2010. these women were followed until they either had a live birth or discontinued treatment. cryothaw and donor egg cycles were not included in the analysis. participants/materials  setting and methods urinary bpa concentrations were measured by online solid-phase extraction-high-performance liquid chromatography-isotope dilution-tandem mass spectrometry. mixed effect models  poisson regression and multivariate logistic regression models were used wherever appropriate to evaluate the association between cycle-specific urinary bpa concentrations and measures of ovarian response  oocyte maturation (metaphase ii)  fertilization  embryo quality and cleavage rate. we accounted for correlation among multiple ivf cycles in the same woman using generalized estimating equations. main results and the role of chance the geometric mean (sd) for urinary bpa concentrations was 1.50 (2.22) µg/l. after adjustment for age and other potential confounders (day 3 serum fsh  smoking  bmi)  there was a significant linear dose-response association between increased urinary bpa concentrations and decreased number of oocytes (overall and mature)  decreased number of normally fertilized oocytes and decreased e(2) levels (mean decreases of 40  253 and 471 pg/ml for urinary bpa quartiles 2  3 and 4  when compared with the lowest quartile  respectively; p-value for trend = 0.001). the mean number of oocytes and normally fertilized oocytes decreased by 24 and 27%  respectively  for the highest versus the lowest quartile of urinary bpa (trend test p < 0.001 and 0.002  respectively). women with urinary bpa above the lowest quartile had decreased blastocyst formation (trend test p-value = 0.08). limitations and reasons for caution potential limitations include exposure misclassification due to the very short half-life of bpa and its high variability over time; uncertainty about the generalizability of the results to the general population of women conceiving naturally and limited sample. wider implications of the findings the results from this extended study  using ivf as a model to study early reproductive health outcomes in humans  indicate a negative dose-response association between urinary bpa concentrations and serum peak e(2) and oocyte yield  confirming our previous findings. in addition  we found significantly decreased metaphase ii oocyte count and number of normally fertilizing oocytes and a suggestive association between bpa urinary concentrations and decreased blastocyst formation  thus indicating that bpa may alter reproductive function in susceptible women undergoing ivf. study funding/competing interest(s) this work was supported by grants es009718 and es000002 from the national institute of environmental health sciences and grant oh008578 from the national institute for occupational safety and health. none of the authors has actual or potential competing financial interests. disclaimer the findings and conclusions in this report are those of the authors and do not necessarily represent the views of the centers for disease control and prevention.
978,folic acid improves endothelial function in coronary artery disease via mechanisms largely independent of homocysteine lowering.,background homocysteine is a risk factor for coronary artery disease (cad)  although a causal relation remains to be proven. the importance of determining direct causality rests in the fact that plasma homocysteine can be safely and inexpensively reduced by 25% with folic acid. this reduction is maximally achieved by doses of 0.4 mg/d. high-dose folic acid (5 mg/d) improves endothelial function in cad  although the mechanism is controversial. it has been proposed that improvement occurs through reduction in total (thcy) or free (non-protein bound) homocysteine (fhcy). we investigated the effects of folic acid on endothelial function before a change in homocysteine in patients with cad. methods and results a randomized  placebo-controlled study of folic acid (5 mg/d) for 6 weeks was undertaken in 33 patients. endothelial function  assessed by flow-mediated dilatation (fmd)  was measured before  at 2 and 4 hours after the first dose of folic acid  and after 6 weeks of treatment. plasma folate increased markedly by 1 hour (200 compared with 25.8 nmol/l; p<0.001). fmd improved at 2 hours (83 compared with 47 microm; p<0.001) and was largely complete by 4 hours (101 compared with 51 microm; p<0.001). thcy did not significantly differ acutely (4-hour thcy  9.56 compared with 9.79 micromol/l; p=ns). fhcy did not differ at 3 hours but was slightly reduced at 4 hours (1.55 compared with 1.78 micromol/l; p=0.02). fmd improvement did not correlate with reductions in either fhcy or thcy at any time. conclusions these data suggest that folic acid improves endothelial function in cad acutely by a mechanism largely independent of homocysteine.
980,prognostic accuracy of the sofa score  sirs criteria  and qsofa score for in-hospital mortality among adults with suspected infection admitted to the intensive care unit,importance the sepsis-3 criteria emphasized the value of a change of 2 or more points in the sequential [sepsis-related] organ failure assessment (sofa) score  introduced quick sofa (qsofa)  and removed the systemic inflammatory response syndrome (sirs) criteria from the sepsis definition. objective externally validate and assess the discriminatory capacities of an increase in sofa score by 2 or more points  2 or more sirs criteria  or a qsofa score of 2 or more points for outcomes among patients who are critically ill with suspected infection. design  setting  and participants retrospective cohort analysis of 184 875 patients with an infection-related primary admission diagnosis in 182 australian and new zealand intensive care units (icus) from 2000 through 2015. exposures sofa  qsofa  and sirs criteria applied to data collected within 24 hours of icu admission. main outcomes and measures the primary outcome was in-hospital mortality. in-hospital mortality or icu length of stay (los) of 3 days or more was a composite secondary outcome. discrimination was assessed using the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (auroc). adjusted analyses were performed using a model of baseline risk determined using variables independent of the scoring systems. results among 184 875 patients (mean age  62.9 years [sd  17.4]; women  82 540 [44.6%]; most common diagnosis bacterial pneumonia  32 634 [17.7%])  a total of 34 578 patients (18.7%) died in the hospital  and 102 976 patients (55.7%) died or experienced an icu los of 3 days or more. sofa score increased by 2 or more points in 90.1%; 86.7% manifested 2 or more sirs criteria  and 54.4% had a qsofa score of 2 or more points. sofa demonstrated significantly greater discrimination for in-hospital mortality (crude auroc  0.753 [99% ci  0.750-0.757]) than sirs criteria (crude auroc  0.589 [99% ci  0.585-0.593]) or qsofa (crude auroc  0.607 [99% ci  0.603-0.611]). incremental improvements were 0.164 (99% ci  0.159-0.169) for sofa vs sirs criteria and 0.146 (99% ci  0.142-0.151) for sofa vs qsofa (p <.001). sofa (auroc  0.736 [99% ci  0.733-0.739]) outperformed the other scores for the secondary end point (sirs criteria: auroc  0.609 [99% ci  0.606-0.612]; qsofa: auroc  0.606 [99% ci  0.602-0.609]). incremental improvements were 0.127 (99% ci  0.123-0.131) for sofa vs sirs criteria and 0.131 (99% ci  0.127-0.134) for sofa vs qsofa (p <.001). findings were consistent for both outcomes in multiple sensitivity analyses. conclusions and relevance among adults with suspected infection admitted to an icu  an increase in sofa score of 2 or more had greater prognostic accuracy for in-hospital mortality than sirs criteria or the qsofa score. these findings suggest that sirs criteria and qsofa may have limited utility for predicting mortality in an icu setting.
982,shaping the landscape of the escherichia coli chromosome: replication-transcription encounters in cells with an ectopic replication origin,each cell division requires the unwinding of millions of dna base pairs to allow chromosome duplication and gene transcription. as dna replication and transcription share the same template  conflicts between both processes are unavoidable and head-on collisions are thought to be particularly problematic. surprisingly  a recent study reported unperturbed cell cycle progression in escherichia coli cells with an ectopic replication origin in which highly transcribed rrn operons were forced to be replicated opposite to normal. in this study we have re-generated a similar strain and found the doubling time to be twice that of normal cells. replication profiles of this background revealed significant deviations in comparison to wild-type profiles  particularly in highly transcribed regions and the termination area. these deviations were alleviated by mutations that either inactivate the termination area or destabilise rna polymerase complexes and allow their easier displacement by replication forks. our data demonstrate that head-on replication-transcription conflicts are highly problematic. indeed  analysis of the replication profile of the previously published e. coli construct revealed a chromosomal rearrangement that alleviates replication-transcription conflicts in an intriguingly simple way. our data support the idea that avoiding head-on collisions has significantly contributed to shaping the distinct architecture of bacterial chromosomes.
984,platelets at the interface of thrombosis  inflammation  and cancer.,although once primarily recognized for its roles in hemostasis and thrombosis  the platelet has been increasingly recognized as a multipurpose cell. indeed  circulating platelets have the ability to influence a wide range of seemingly unrelated pathophysiologic events. here  we highlight some of the notable observations that link platelets to inflammation  reinforcing the platelet's origin from a lower vertebrate cell type with both hemostatic and immunologic roles. in addition  we consider the relevance of platelets in cancer biology by focusing on the hallmarks of cancer and the ways platelets can influence multistep development of tumors. beyond its traditional role in hemostasis and thrombosis  the platelet's involvement in the interplay between hemostasis  thrombosis  inflammation  and cancer is likely complex  yet extremely important in each disease process. the existence of animal models of platelet dysfunction and currently used antiplatelet therapies provide a framework for understanding mechanistic insights into a wide range of pathophysiologic events. thus  the basic scientist studying platelet function can think beyond the traditional hemostasis and thrombosis paradigms  while the practicing hematologist must appreciate platelet relevance in a wide range of disease processes.
986,microrna sponges: progress and possibilities.,the microrna (mirna) "sponge" method was introduced three years ago as a means to create continuous mirna loss of function in cell lines and transgenic organisms. sponge rnas contain complementary binding sites to a mirna of interest  and are produced from transgenes within cells. as with most mirna target genes  a sponge's binding sites are specific to the mirna seed region  which allows them to block a whole family of related mirnas. this transgenic approach has proven to be a useful tool to probe mirna functions in a variety of experimental systems. here we will discuss the ways sponge and related constructs can be optimized and review recent applications of this method with particular emphasis on stable expression in cancer studies and in transgenic animals.
988,the shunt problem: control of functional shunting in normal and tumour vasculature,networks of blood vessels in normal and tumour tissues have heterogeneous structures  with widely varying blood flow pathway lengths. to achieve efficient blood flow distribution  mechanisms for the structural adaptation of vessel diameters must be able to inhibit the formation of functional shunts (whereby short pathways become enlarged and flow bypasses long pathways). such adaptation requires information about tissue metabolic status to be communicated upstream to feeding vessels  through conducted responses. we propose that impaired vascular communication in tumour microvascular networks  leading to functional shunting  is a primary cause of dysfunctional microcirculation and local hypoxia in cancer. we suggest that anti-angiogenic treatment of tumours may restore vascular communication and thereby improve or normalize flow distribution in tumour vasculature.
990,an antidepressant decreases csf aβ production in healthy individuals and in transgenic ad mice,serotonin signaling suppresses generation of amyloid-β (aβ) in vitro and in animal models of alzheimer’s disease (ad). we show that in an aged transgenic ad mouse model (app/ps1 plaque-bearing mice)  the antidepressant citalopram  a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor  decreased aβ in brain interstitial fluid in a dose-dependent manner. growth of individual amyloid plaques was assessed in plaque-bearing mice that were chronically administered citalopram. citalopram arrested the growth of preexisting plaques and reduced the appearance of new plaques by 78%. in healthy human volunteers  citalopram’s effects on aβ production and aβ concentrations in cerebrospinal fluid (csf) were measured prospectively using stable isotope labeling kinetics  with csf sampling during acute dosing of citalopram. aβ production in csf was slowed by 37% in the citalopram group compared to placebo. this change was associated with a 38% decrease in total csf aβ concentrations in the drug-treated group. the ability to safely decrease aβ concentrations is potentially important as a preventive strategy for ad. this study demonstrates key target engagement for future ad prevention trials.
992,historical review: megakaryopoiesis and thrombopoiesis.,the study of thrombopoiesis has evolved greatly since an era when platelets were termed "the dust of the blood " only about 100 years ago. during this time megakaryocytes were identified as the origin of blood platelets; marrow-derived megakaryocytic progenitor cells were functionally defined and then purified; and the primary regulator of the process  thrombopoietin  was cloned and characterized and therapeutic thrombopoietic agents developed. during this journey we continue to learn that the physiologic mechanisms that drive proplatelet formation can be recapitulated in cell-free systems and their biochemistry evaluated; the molecular underpinnings of endomitosis are being increasingly understood; the intracellular signals sent by engagement of a large number of megakaryocyte surface receptors have been defined; and many of the transcription factors that drive megakaryocytic fate determination have been identified and experimentally manipulated. while some of these biologic processes mimic those seen in other cell types  megakaryocytes and platelets possess enough unique developmental features that we are virtually assured that continued study of thrombopoiesis will yield innumerable clinical and scientific insights for many decades to come.
994,combating trastuzumab resistance by targeting src  a common node downstream of multiple resistance pathways,trastuzumab is a successful rationally designed erbb2-targeted therapy. however  about half of individuals with erbb2-overexpressing breast cancer do not respond to trastuzumab-based therapies  owing to various resistance mechanisms. clinically applicable regimens for overcoming trastuzumab resistance of different mechanisms are not yet available. we show that the nonreceptor tyrosine kinase c-src (src) is a key modulator of trastuzumab response and a common node downstream of multiple trastuzumab resistance pathways. we find that src is activated in both acquired and de novo trastuzumab-resistant cells and uncover a novel mechanism of src regulation involving dephosphorylation by pten. increased src activation conferred considerable trastuzumab resistance in breast cancer cells and correlated with trastuzumab resistance in patients. targeting src in combination with trastuzumab sensitized multiple lines of trastuzumab-resistant cells to trastuzumab and eliminated trastuzumab-resistant tumors in vivo  suggesting the potential clinical application of this strategy to overcome trastuzumab resistance.
996,a vertebrate gene  ticrr  is an essential checkpoint and replication regulator.,eukaryotes have numerous checkpoint pathways to protect genome fidelity during normal cell division and in response to dna damage. through a screen for g2/m checkpoint regulators in zebrafish  we identified ticrr (for topbp1-interacting  checkpoint  and replication regulator)  a previously uncharacterized gene that is required to prevent mitotic entry after treatment with ionizing radiation. ticrr deficiency is embryonic-lethal in the absence of exogenous dna damage because it is essential for normal cell cycle progression. specifically  the loss of ticrr impairs dna replication and disrupts the s/m checkpoint  leading to premature mitotic entry and mitotic catastrophe. we show that the human ticrr ortholog associates with topbp1  a known checkpoint protein and a core component of the dna replication preinitiation complex (pre-ic)  and that the ticrr-topbp1 interaction is stable without chromatin and requires brct motifs essential for topbp1's replication and checkpoint functions. most importantly  we find that ticrr deficiency disrupts chromatin binding of pre-ic  but not prereplication complex  components. taken together  our data show that ticrr acts in association with topbp1 and plays an essential role in pre-ic formation. it remains to be determined whether ticrr represents the vertebrate ortholog of the yeast pre-ic component sld3  or a hitherto unknown metazoan replication and checkpoint regulator.
998,alarming levels of drug-resistant tuberculosis in belarus: results of a survey in minsk,resistance to anti-tuberculosis (tb) medicines is a major public health threat in most countries of the former soviet union. as no representative and quality-assured information on the magnitude of this problem existed in belarus  a survey was conducted in the capital city of minsk. between november 2009 and december 2010  156 consecutively diagnosed new and 68 previously treated culture-positive tb patients residing in minsk were enrolled in the survey. mycobacterium tuberculosis isolates were obtained from each patient and tested for susceptibility to first- and second-line anti-tb drugs. multidrug-resistant (mdr)-tb was found in 35.3% (95% ci 27.7-42.8) of new patients and 76.5% (95% ci 66.1-86.8) of those previously treated. overall  nearly one in two patients enrolled had mdr-tb. extensively drug-resistant tb was reported in 15 of the 107 mdr-tb patients (14.0%  95% ci 7.3-20.7). patients <35 yrs of age have shown a two times higher odds ratio of multidrug-resistant tb than those aged >35 yrs. the findings of this survey in minsk city are alarming and represent the highest proportions of mdr-tb ever recorded in the world. this study greatly contributes to the understanding of the burden of drug-resistant tb in urban areas of belarus.
1000,life is sweet: candy consumption and longevity.,our attitude towards candy—“if it tastes that good  it can't be healthy”—betrays society's puritanical stance towards pleasure. candy has been blamed for various ills  including hyperactivity in children; however  clinical trials have not supported this.1  candy—sugar confectionery and chocolate—is not a recent invention: the ancient arabs  chinese  and egyptians candied fruits and nuts in honey  and the aztecs made a chocolate drink from the bean of the cacao tree. today  americans gratify themselves with  on average  5.4 kg of sugar candy and 6.5 kg of chocolate per person annually.2  since candy has existed for centuries  we surmised that it cannot be totally unhealthy. we decided to investigate whether candy consumption was associated with longevity. subjects were from the harvard alumni health study  an ongoing study of men entering harvard university as undergraduates between 1916 and 1950. we included 7841 men  free of cardiovascular disease and cancer  who responded to a health survey …
1002,integrins promote cytokinesis through the rsk signaling axis.,cytokinesis is the final stage in cell division. although integrins can regulate cytokinesis  the mechanisms involved are not fully understood. in this study  we demonstrate that integrin-regulated erk (extracellular signal-related kinase) and rsk (p90 ribosomal s6 kinase) signaling promotes successful cytokinesis. inhibiting the activation of erk and rsk in cho cells by a mutation in the integrin β1 cytoplasmic tail or with pharmacological inhibitors results in the accumulation of cells with midbodies and the formation of binucleated cells. activation of erk and rsk signaling by the expression of constitutively active raf1 suppresses the mutant phenotype in a rsk-dependent manner. constitutively active rsk2 also restores cytokinesis inhibited by the mutant integrin. importantly  the regulatory role of the rsk pathway is not specific to cho cells. mcf-10a human mammary epithelial cells and hpne human pancreatic ductal epithelial cells exhibit a similar dependence on rsk for successful cytokinesis. in addition  depriving mitotic mcf10a cells of integrin-mediated adhesion by incubating them in suspension suppressed erk and rsk activation and resulted in a failure of cytokinesis. furthermore  inhibition of rsk or integrins within the 3d context of a developing salivary gland organ explant also leads to an accumulation of epithelial cells with midbodies  suggesting a similar defect in cytokinesis. interestingly  neither erk nor rsk regulates cytokinesis in human fibroblasts  suggesting cell-type specificity. taken together  our results identify the integrin-rsk signaling axis as an important regulator of cytokinesis in epithelial cells. we propose that the proper interaction of cells with their microenvironment through integrins contributes to the maintenance of genomic stability by promoting the successful completion of cytokinesis.
1004,barriers to recruiting urban african american women into research studies in community settings.,this qualitative study identified barriers to african american women's participation in a community-based behavioral intervention trial to increase mammography screening. four themes emerged from focus group discussions with community agency providers and research team members. these themes were (1) going to the gatekeepers; (2) knowing the culture; (3) location is everything; and (4) protocols  policies  and possibilities. a checklist of actions that nurse researchers could consider to increase african american women's participation in community trials is provided.
1006,enhanced monocyte fc phagocytosis by a homologue of interleukin-10 encoded by human cytomegalovirus.,human cytomegalovirus (hcmv) expresses several homologues of human interleukin 10 (hil-10) possessing immunomodulatory properties which may promote viral infection by modulating the function of myeloid cells. we examined the phenotype and phagocytic capability of human monocytes exposed to hil-10  an hcmv-encoded hil-10 homologue expressed during the productive phase of infection (cmvil-10)  and a differentially spliced form of cmvil-10 expressed during latent and productive phases of infection  (lacmvil-10). hil-10 and cmvil-10 upregulated expression of fcgamma receptors  stimulated phagocytosis of igg-opsonised erythrocytes and decreased mhc class ii (hla-dr) expression on purified monocytes within 24 h. in contrast  lacmvil-10 decreased hla-dr expression at later times (48 h and 72 h) but did not increase fcgamma receptor expression. we conclude that cmvil-10 promotes differentiation of monocytes towards a pro-phagocytic phenotype and that lacmvil-10 does not affect monocytes by the same mechanism as cmvil-10. the significance of these properties to cytomegalovirus pathogenesis is discussed.
1008,functional analysis via standardized whole-blood stimulation systems defines the boundaries of a healthy immune response to complex stimuli.,standardization of immunophenotyping procedures has become a high priority. we have developed a suite of whole-blood  syringe-based assay systems that can be used to reproducibly assess induced innate or adaptive immune responses. by eliminating preanalytical errors associated with immune monitoring  we have defined the protein signatures induced by (1) medically relevant bacteria  fungi  and viruses; (2) agonists specific for defined host sensors; (3) clinically employed cytokines; and (4) activators of t cell immunity. our results provide an initial assessment of healthy donor reference values for induced cytokines and chemokines and we report the failure to release interleukin-1α as a common immunological phenotype. the observed naturally occurring variation of the immune response may help to explain differential susceptibility to disease or response to therapeutic intervention. the implementation of a general solution for assessment of functional immune responses will help support harmonization of clinical studies and data sharing.
1010,activation of the nlrp3 inflammasome in dendritic cells induces il-1β–dependent adaptive immunity against tumors,the therapeutic efficacy of anticancer chemotherapies may depend on dendritic cells (dcs)  which present antigens from dying cancer cells to prime tumor-specific interferon-γ (ifn-γ)–producing t lymphocytes. here we show that dying tumor cells release atp  which then acts on p2x7 purinergic receptors from dcs and triggers the nod-like receptor family  pyrin domain containing-3 protein (nlrp3)-dependent caspase-1 activation complex ('inflammasome')  allowing for the secretion of interleukin-1β (il-1β). the priming of ifn-γ–producing cd8+ t cells by dying tumor cells fails in the absence of a functional il-1 receptor 1 and in nlpr3-deficient (nlrp3−/−) or caspase-1–deficient (casp-1−/−) mice unless exogenous il-1β is provided. accordingly  anticancer chemotherapy turned out to be inefficient against tumors established in purinergic receptor p2rx7−/− or nlrp3−/− or casp1−/− hosts. anthracycline-treated individuals with breast cancer carrying a loss-of-function allele of p2rx7 developed metastatic disease more rapidly than individuals bearing the normal allele. these results indicate that the nlrp3 inflammasome links the innate and adaptive immune responses against dying tumor cells.
1012,rad52 facilitates mitotic dna synthesis following replication stress.,homologous recombination (hr) is necessary to counteract dna replication stress. common fragile site (cfs) loci are particularly sensitive to replication stress and undergo pathological rearrangements in tumors. at these loci  replication stress frequently activates dna repair synthesis in mitosis. this mitotic dna synthesis  termed midas  requires the mus81-eme1 endonuclease and a non-catalytic subunit of the pol-delta complex  pold3. here  we examine the contribution of hr factors in promoting midas in human cells. we report that rad51 and brca2 are dispensable for midas but are required to counteract replication stress at cfs loci during s-phase. in contrast  midas is rad52 dependent  and rad52 is required for the timely recruitment of mus81 and pold3 to cfss in early mitosis. our results provide further mechanistic insight into midas and define a specific function for human rad52. furthermore  selective inhibition of midas may comprise a potential therapeutic strategy to sensitize cancer cells undergoing replicative stress.
1014,germinal center t follicular helper cells are highly permissive to hiv-1 and alter their phenotype during virus replication.,hiv-1 replication is concentrated within cd4(+) t cells in b cell follicles of secondary lymphoid tissues during asymptomatic disease. limited data suggest that a subset of t follicular helper cells (tfh) within germinal centers (gc) is highly permissive to hiv-1. whether gc tfh are the major hiv-1 virus-producing cells in vivo has not been established. in this study  we investigated tfh permissivity to hiv-1 ex vivo by spinoculating and culturing tonsil cells with hiv-1 gfp reporter viruses. using flow cytometry  higher percentages of gc tfh (cxcr5(high)pd-1(high)) and cxcr5(+)programmed cell death-1 (pd-1)(low) cells were gfp(+) than non-gc tfh (cxcr5(+)pd-1(intermediate)) or extrafollicular (ef) (cxcr5(-)) cells. when sorted prior to spinoculation  however  gc tfh were substantially more permissive than cxcr5(+)pd-1(low) or ef cells  suggesting that many gc tfh transition to a cxcr5(+)pd-1(low) phenotype during productive infection. in situ hybridization on inguinal lymph node sections from untreated hiv-1-infected individuals without aids revealed higher frequencies of hiv-1 rna(+) cells in gc than non-gc regions of follicle or ef regions. superinfection of hiv-1-infected individuals' lymph node cells with gfp reporter virus confirmed the permissivity of follicular cells ex vivo. lymph node immunostaining revealed 96% of cxcr5(+)cd4(+) cells were located in follicles. within sorted lymph node cells from four hiv-infected individuals  cxcr5(+) subsets harbored 11-66-fold more hiv-1 rna than cxcr5(-) subsets  as determined by rt pcr. thus  gc tfh are highly permissive to hiv-1  but downregulate pd-1 and  to a lesser extent  cxcr5 during hiv-1 replication. these data further implicate gc tfh as the major hiv-1-producing cells in chronic asymptomatic hiv-1 infection.
1016,pi3k in cancer: divergent roles of isoforms  modes of activation and therapeutic targeting,phosphatidylinositol 3-kinases (pi3ks) are crucial coordinators of intracellular signalling in response to extracellular stimuli. hyperactivation of pi3k signalling cascades is one of the most common events in human cancers. in this review  we discuss recent advances in our knowledge of the roles of specific pi3k isoforms in normal and oncogenic signalling  the different ways in which pi3k can be upregulated  and the current state and future potential of targeting this pathway in the clinic.
1018,gonadotrope-specific deletion of dicer results in severely suppressed gonadotropins and fertility defects.,pituitary gonadotropins follicle-stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone are heterodimeric glycoproteins expressed in gonadotropes. they act on gonads and promote their development and functions including steroidogenesis and gametogenesis. although transcriptional regulation of gonadotropin subunits has been well studied  the post-transcriptional regulation of gonadotropin subunits is not well understood. to test if micrornas regulate the hormone-specific gonadotropin β subunits in vivo  we deleted dicer in gonadotropes by a cre-lox genetic approach. we found that many of the dicer-dependent micrornas  predicted in silico to bind gonadotropin β subunit mrnas  were suppressed in purified gonadotropes of mutant mice. loss of dicer-dependent micrornas in gonadotropes resulted in profound suppression of gonadotropin-β subunit proteins and  consequently  the heterodimeric hormone secretion. in addition to suppression of basal levels  interestingly  the post-gonadectomy-induced rise in pituitary gonadotropin synthesis and secretion were both abolished in mutants  indicating a defective gonadal negative feedback control. furthermore  mutants lacking dicer in gonadotropes displayed severely reduced fertility and were rescued with exogenous hormones confirming that the fertility defects were secondary to suppressed gonadotropins. our studies reveal that dicer-dependent micrornas are essential for gonadotropin homeostasis and fertility in mice. our studies also implicate micrornas in gonadal feedback control of gonadotropin synthesis and secretion. thus  dicer-dependent micrornas confer a new layer of transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulation in gonadotropes to orchestrate the hypothalamus-pituitary-gonadal axis physiology.
1020,normal and leukemic stem cell niches: insights and therapeutic opportunities.,hematopoietic stem cells (hscs) rely on instructive cues from the bone marrow (bm) niche to maintain their quiescence and adapt blood production to the organism's needs. alterations in the bm niche are commonly observed in blood malignancies and directly contribute to the aberrant function of disease-initiating leukemic stem cells (lscs). here  we review recent insights into the cellular and molecular determinants of the normal hsc niche and describe how genetic changes in stromal cells and leukemia-induced bm niche remodeling contribute to blood malignancies. moreover  we discuss how these findings can be applied to non-cell-autonomous therapies targeting the lsc niche.
1022,clinical human papillomavirus detection forecasts cervical cancer risk in women over 18 years of follow-up.,purpose to describe the long-term (≥ 10 years) benefits of clinical human papillomavirus (hpv) dna testing for cervical precancer and cancer risk prediction. methods cervicovaginal lavages collected from 19 512 women attending a health maintenance program were retrospectively tested for hpv using a clinical test. hpv positives were tested for hpv16 and hpv18 individually using a research test. a papanicolaou (pap) result classified as atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance (asc-us) or more severe was considered abnormal. women underwent follow-up prospectively with routine annual pap testing up to 18 years. cumulative incidence rates (cirs) of ≥ grade 3 cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin3+) or cancer for enrollment test results were calculated. results a baseline negative hpv test provided greater reassurance against cin3+ over the 18-year follow-up than a normal pap (cir  0.90% v 1.27%). although both baseline pap and hpv tests predicted who would develop cin3+ within the first 2 years of follow-up  only hpv testing predicted who would develop cin3+ 10 to 18 years later (p = .004). hpv16- and hpv18-positive women with normal pap were at elevated risk of cin3+ compared with other hpv-positive women with normal pap and were at similar risk of cin3+ compared with women with a low-grade squamous intraepithelial pap. conclusion hpv testing to rule out cervical disease followed by pap testing and possibly combined with the detection of hpv16 and hpv18 among hpv positives to identify those at immediate risk of cin3+ would be an efficient algorithm for cervical cancer screening  especially in women age 30 years or older.
1024,a large-scale replication study identifies tnip1  prdm1  jazf1  uhrf1bp1 and il10 as risk loci for systemic lupus erythematosus,genome-wide association studies have recently identified at least 15 susceptibility loci for systemic lupus erythematosus (sle). to confirm additional risk loci  we selected snps from 2 466 regions that showed nominal evidence of association to sle (p < 0.05) in a genome-wide study and genotyped them in an independent sample of 1 963 cases and 4 329 controls. this replication effort identified five new sle susceptibility loci (p < 5 × 10−8): tnip1 (odds ratio (or) = 1.27)  prdm1 (or = 1.20)  jazf1 (or = 1.20)  uhrf1bp1 (or = 1.17) and il10 (or = 1.19). we identified 21 additional candidate loci with p≤ 1 × 10−5. a candidate screen of alleles previously associated with other autoimmune diseases suggested five loci (p < 1 × 10−3) that may contribute to sle: ifih1  cfb  clec16a  il12b and sh2b3. these results expand the number of confirmed and candidate sle susceptibility loci and implicate several key immunologic pathways in sle pathogenesis.
1026,solution nmr structure of the tata component of the twin-arginine protein transport system from gram-positive bacterium bacillus subtilis.,the twin-arginine transport (tat) system translocates folded proteins across the bacterial cytoplasmic or chloroplast thylakoid membrane of plants. the tat system in most gram-positive bacteria consists of two essential components  the tata and tatc proteins. tata is considered to be a bifunctional subunit  which can form a protein-conducting channel by self-oligomerization and can also participate in substrate recognition. however  the molecular mechanism underlying protein translocation remains elusive. herein  we report the solution structure of the tata(d) protein from bacillus subtilis by nmr spectroscopy  the first structure of the tat system at atomic resolution. tata(d) shows an l-shaped structure formed by a transmembrane helix and an amphipathic helix  while the c-terminal tail is largely unstructured. our results strongly support the postulated topology of tata(d) in which the transmembrane helix is inserted into the lipid bilayer while the amphipathic helix lies at the membrane-water interface. moreover  the structure of tata(d) revealed the structural importance of several conserved residues at the hinge region  thus shedding new light on further elucidation of the protein transport mechanism of the tat system.
1028,altered recognition of antigen is a mechanism of cd8+ t cell tolerance in cancer,antigen-specific cd8+ t-cell tolerance  induced by myeloid-derived suppressor cells (mdscs)  is one of the main mechanisms of tumor escape. using in vivo models  we show here that mdscs directly disrupt the binding of specific peptide–major histocompatibility complex (pmhc) dimers to cd8-expressing t cells through nitration of tyrosines in a t-cell receptor (tcr)-cd8 complex. this process makes cd8-expressing t cells unable to bind pmhc and to respond to the specific peptide  although they retain their ability to respond to nonspecific stimulation. nitration of tcr-cd8 is induced by mdscs through hyperproduction of reactive oxygen species and peroxynitrite during direct cell-cell contact. molecular modeling suggests specific sites of nitration that might affect the conformational flexibility of tcr-cd8 and its interaction with pmhc. these data identify a previously unknown mechanism of t-cell tolerance in cancer that is also pertinent to many pathological conditions associated with accumulation of mdscs.
1030,birth weight and mammographic density among postmenopausal women in sweden.,birth weight is a significant predictor of breast cancer risk in adult life and mammary gland mass could be an intermediate stage in this long process. we have studied the association of birth size measurements with mammographic density  a marker of mammary gland mass. for a population-based sample of 893 postmenopausal women without previous cancer in sweden  we retrieved information on birth size from birth records and their most recent mammography. film mammograms of the medio-lateral oblique view were digitized and the cumulus software was used for computer-assisted semi-automated thresholding of mammographic density. results were analyzed using generalized linear models controlling for possible confounders. mean percent mammographic density increased when comparing the extreme categories of birth weight (from 15.6% to 18.6%) and head circumference (from 15.5% to 20.4%)  and the corresponding linear trends were statistically significant (p values 0.02 and 0.007  respectively). the associations were particularly strong when the cutoff for high versus low mammographic density was set at the relatively high value of 50%. compared to women weighing 3001-3500 grams at birth  women with birth weights >4000g were at almost 3-fold risk of developing high mammographic density (odds ratio: 2.9  95% confidence interval 1.1 to 7.9). no association with mammographic density was evident with respect to birth length which  however  is known to be less accurately measured. these results indicate that adult breast density  a powerful predictor of breast cancer risk  has intrauterine roots  as reflected in birth size.
1032,cancer cell–autonomous contribution of type i interferon signaling to the efficacy of chemotherapy,some of the anti-neoplastic effects of anthracyclines in mice originate from the induction of innate and t cell–mediated anticancer immune responses. here we demonstrate that anthracyclines stimulate the rapid production of type i interferons (ifns) by malignant cells after activation of the endosomal pattern recognition receptor toll-like receptor 3 (tlr3). by binding to ifn-α and ifn-β receptors (ifnars) on neoplastic cells  type i ifns trigger autocrine and paracrine circuitries that result in the release of chemokine (c-x-c motif) ligand 10 (cxcl10). tumors lacking tlr3 or ifnar failed to respond to chemotherapy unless type i ifn or cxcl10  respectively  was artificially supplied. moreover  a type i ifn–related signature predicted clinical responses to anthracycline-based chemotherapy in several independent cohorts of patients with breast carcinoma characterized by poor prognosis. our data suggest that anthracycline-mediated immune responses mimic those induced by viral pathogens. we surmise that such 'viral mimicry' constitutes a hallmark of successful chemotherapy.
1034,molecular regulation of effector and memory t cell differentiation,immunological memory is a cardinal feature of adaptive immunity and an important goal of vaccination strategies. here we highlight advances in the understanding of the diverse t lymphocyte subsets that provide acute and long-term protection from infection. these include new insights into the transcription factors  and the upstream 'pioneering' factors that regulate their accessibility to key sites of gene regulation  as well as metabolic regulators that contribute to the differentiation of effector and memory subsets; ontogeny and defining characteristics of tissue-resident memory lymphocytes; and origins of the remarkable heterogeneity exhibited by activated t cells. collectively  these findings underscore progress in delineating the underlying pathways that control diversification in t cell responses but also reveal gaps in the knowledge  as well as the challenges that arise in the application of this knowledge to rationally elicit desired t cell responses through vaccination and immunotherapy.
1036,gene regulation in the immune system by long noncoding rnas,long noncoding rnas (lncrnas) are emerging as critical regulators of gene expression in the immune system. studies have shown that lncrnas are expressed in a highly lineage-specific manner and control the differentiation and function of innate and adaptive cell types. in this review  we focus on mechanisms used by lncrnas to regulate genes encoding products involved in the immune response  including direct interactions with chromatin  rna and proteins. in addition  we address new areas of lncrna biology  such as the functions of enhancer rnas  circular rnas and chemical modifications to rna in cellular processes. we emphasize critical gaps in knowledge and future prospects for the roles of lncrnas in the immune system and autoimmune disease.
1038,prevalence of kaposi sarcoma-associated herpesvirus infection in homosexual men at beginning of and during the hiv epidemic.,context some studies have inferred that an epidemic of kaposi sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (kshv) infection in homosexual men in the united states occurred concurrently with that of human immunodeficiency virus (hiv)  but there have been no direct measurements of kshv prevalence at the beginning of the hiv epidemic. objectives to determine the prevalence of kshv infection in homosexual men in san francisco  calif  at the beginning of the hiv epidemic in 1978 and 1979 and to examine changes in prevalence of kshv at time points from 1978 through 1996 in light of changes in sexual behavior. design  setting  and participants analysis of a clinic-based sample (n = 398) derived from the san francisco city clinic cohort (ages 18-66 years) (n = 2666 for analyses herein) and from population-based samples from the san francisco men's health study (mhs) (ages 25-54 years) (n = 825 and 252) and the san francisco young men's health study (ymhs) (ages 18-29 years) (n = 428-976  and 557); behavioral studies were longitudinal and kshv prevalence studies were cross-sectional. main outcome measures antibodies against kshv and hiv; sexual behaviors. results the prevalence of kshv infection in 1978 and 1979 was 26.5% of 235 (a random sample) overall (weighted for hiv infection) vs 6.9% (128/1842) for hiv in the san francisco city clinic cohort sample. the prevalence of kshv infection remained essentially unchanged between an mhs sample of 252 in 1984 and 1985 (29.6%) and a ymhs sample of 557 in 1995 and 1996 (26.4%)  while hiv prevalence dropped from 49.5% of 825 in 1984 and 1985 (mhs) to 17.6% of 428 in 1992 and 1993 (ymhs). the proportion of men practicing unprotected receptive anal intercourse with 1 or more partners declined from 54% to 11% during the 1984 through 1993 period (mhs) with similar though slightly higher values in the ymhs in 1992 and 1993; whereas for unprotected oral intercourse it ranged between 60% and 90% in the 1984 through 1996 period (mhs and ymhs). conclusions infection with kshv was already highly prevalent in homosexual men when the hiv epidemic began in san francisco  and its prevalence has been maintained at a nearly constant level. any declines in the incidence of kaposi sarcoma do not appear to be caused by a decline in kshv transmission.
1040,emotion dysregulation in attention deficit hyperactivity disorder.,although it has long been recognized that many individuals with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (adhd) also have difficulties with emotion regulation  no consensus has been reached on how to conceptualize this clinically challenging domain. the authors examine the current literature using both quantitative and qualitative methods. three key findings emerge. first  emotion dysregulation is prevalent in adhd throughout the lifespan and is a major contributor to impairment. second  emotion dysregulation in adhd may arise from deficits in orienting toward  recognizing  and/or allocating attention to emotional stimuli; these deficits implicate dysfunction within a striato-amygdalo-medial prefrontal cortical network. third  while current treatments for adhd often also ameliorate emotion dysregulation  a focus on this combination of symptoms reframes clinical questions and could stimulate novel therapeutic approaches. the authors then consider three models to explain the overlap between emotion dysregulation and adhd: emotion dysregulation and adhd are correlated but distinct dimensions; emotion dysregulation is a core diagnostic feature of adhd; and the combination constitutes a nosological entity distinct from both adhd and emotion dysregulation alone. the differing predictions from each model can guide research on the much-neglected population of patients with adhd and emotion dysregulation.
1042,somatic mutations of the immunoglobulin framework are generally required for broad and potent hiv-1 neutralization,broadly neutralizing antibodies (bnabs) to hiv-1 can prevent infection and are therefore of great importance for hiv-1 vaccine design. notably  bnabs are highly somatically mutated and generated by a fraction of hiv-1-infected individuals several years after infection. antibodies typically accumulate mutations in the complementarity determining region (cdr) loops  which usually contact the antigen. the cdr loops are scaffolded by canonical framework regions (fwrs) that are both resistant to and less tolerant of mutations. here  we report that in contrast to most antibodies  including those with limited hiv-1 neutralizing activity  most bnabs require somatic mutations in their fwrs. structural and functional analyses reveal that somatic mutations in fwr residues enhance breadth and potency by providing increased flexibility and/or direct antigen contact. thus  in bnabs  fwrs play an essential role beyond scaffolding the cdr loops and their unusual contribution to potency and breadth should be considered in hiv-1 vaccine design.
1044,plasticity of epithelial stem cells in tissue regeneration,tissues rely upon stem cells for homeostasis and repair. recent studies show that the fate and multilineage potential of epithelial stem cells can change depending on whether a stem cell exists within its resident niche and responds to normal tissue homeostasis  whether it is mobilized to repair a wound  or whether it is taken from its niche and challenged to de novo tissue morphogenesis after transplantation. in this review  we discuss how different populations of naturally lineage-restricted stem cells and committed progenitors can display remarkable plasticity and reversibility and reacquire long-term self-renewing capacities and multilineage differentiation potential during physiological and regenerative conditions. we also discuss the implications of cellular plasticity for regenerative medicine and for cancer.
1046,activin–like kinase–3 activity is important for kidney regeneration and reversal of fibrosis,molecules associated with the transforming growth factor β (tgf-β) superfamily  such as bone morphogenic proteins (bmps) and tgf-β  are key regulators of inflammation  apoptosis and cellular transitions. here we show that the bmp receptor activin-like kinase 3 (alk3) is elevated early in diseased kidneys after injury. we also found that its deletion in the tubular epithelium leads to enhanced tgf-β1-smad family member 3 (smad3) signaling  epithelial damage and fibrosis  suggesting a protective role for alk3-mediated signaling in the kidney. a structure-function analysis of the bmp-alk3-bmp receptor  type 2 (bmpr2) ligand-receptor complex  along with synthetic organic chemistry  led us to construct a library of small peptide agonists of bmp signaling that function through the alk3 receptor. one such peptide agonist  thr-123  suppressed inflammation  apoptosis and the epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition program and reversed established fibrosis in five mouse models of acute and chronic renal injury. thr-123 acts specifically through alk3 signaling  as mice with a targeted deletion for alk3 in their tubular epithelium did not respond to therapy with thr-123. combining thr-123 and the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor captopril had an additive therapeutic benefit in controlling renal fibrosis. our studies show that bmp signaling agonists constitute a new line of therapeutic agents with potential utility in the clinic to induce regeneration  repair and reverse established fibrosis.
1048,subgrouping of patients with neuropathic pain according to pain-related sensory abnormalities: a first step to a stratified treatment approach.,background patients with neuropathic pain present with various pain-related sensory abnormalities. these sensory features form different patterns or mosaics-the sensory profile-in individual patients. one hypothesis for the development of sensory profiles is that distinct pathophysiological mechanisms of pain generation produce specific sensory abnormalities. several controlled trials of promising new drugs have produced negative results  but these findings could have been a result of heterogeneity in the patient population. subgrouping patients on the basis of individual sensory profiles could reduce this heterogeneity and improve trial design. recent developments a statistical categorisation of patients with neuropathic pain showed that subgroups of patients with distinct sensory profiles who perceive their pain differently do exist across a range of neuropathic disorders  although some distinct disorder-specific profiles were also detected. results of the first clinical trials to use the subgroup approach at baseline could show a superior effect of the study drugs in specific subgroups  rather than in the entire cohort of patients. where next?: a new classification of neuropathic pain should take into account subgroups of patients with different sensory profiles. sensory phenotyping has the potential to improve clinical trial design by enriching the study population with potential treatment responders  and might lead to a stratified treatment approach and ultimately to personalised treatment.
1050,stem cell transplantation in patients with autonomic neuropathy due to primary (al) amyloidosis.,objectives patients with al amyloidosis can benefit from high-dose chemotherapy and autologous stem cell transplantation (asct). transplantation can be challenging due to fluid shifts  sepsis  and cardiac dysrhythmias. amyloidosis may present with autonomic neuropathy (an) that renders peritransplant care problematic. the purpose of this study was to determine the outcome of patients with an during and after asct. methods we performed a case-control study of patients with al amyloidosis with associated an and compared them to a large matched cohort without an who also underwent asct. results we identified 13 patients with an who underwent asct and a matched control group of 95 patients without an. patients with an had more organs involved (median 2.5 vs 1  p < 0.001) and the conditioning dose of melphalan was often reduced by 30% compared to controls without an (p = 0.0015). median duration of hospitalization was similar for both cohorts  as were engraftment kinetics. atrial fibrillation occurred in all patients with an but in only 1 control patient (p < 0.0001). median overall survival (os) for patients with an was 29 months but >60 months for controls (p < 0.0001). on univariate analysis  cardiac involvement (p = 0.0132)  an (p = 0.0011)  glomerular filtration rate (p = 0.038)  number of organs involved (p = 0.0064)  and nt-pro-bnp (p = 0.039) all had an impact on os. on multivariate analysis  an retained an independent adverse impact on os. conclusions patients with autonomic neuropathy secondary to al amyloidosis can undergo autologous stem cell transplantation with relative safety. autonomic neuropathy is an independent  adverse determinant of survival in these patients.
1052,brachyury and cdx2 mediate bmp-induced differentiation of human and mouse pluripotent stem cells into embryonic and extraembryonic lineages,bmp is thought to induce hesc differentiation toward multiple lineages including mesoderm and trophoblast. the bmp-induced trophoblast phenotype is a long-standing paradox in stem cell biology. here we readdressed bmp function in hescs and mouse epiblast-derived cells. we found that bmp4 cooperates with fgf2 (via erk) to induce mesoderm and to inhibit endoderm differentiation. these conditions induced cells with high levels of brachyury (bra) that coexpressed cdx2. bra was necessary for and preceded cdx2 expression; both genes were essential for expression not only of mesodermal genes but also of trophoblast-associated genes. maximal expression of the latter was seen in the absence of fgf but these cells coexpressed mesodermal genes and moreover they differed in cell surface and epigenetic properties from placental trophoblast. we conclude that bmp induces human and mouse pluripotent stem cells primarily to form mesoderm  rather than trophoblast  acting through bra and cdx2.
1054,social and geographical factors affecting access to treatment of colorectal cancer: a cancer registry study,objective cancer outcomes vary between and within countries with patients from deprived backgrounds known to have inferior survival. the authors set out to explore the effect of deprivation in relation to the accessibility of hospitals offering diagnostic and therapeutic services on stage at presentation and receipt of treatment. design analysis of a cancer registry database. data included stage and treatment details from the first 6 months. the socioeconomic status of the immediate area of residence and the travel time from home to hospital was derived from the postcode. setting population-based study of patients resident in a large area in the north of england. participants 39 619 patients with colorectal cancer diagnosed between 1994 and 2002. outcomes measured stage of diagnosis and receipt of treatment in relation to deprivation and distance from hospital. results patients in the most deprived quartile were significantly more likely to be diagnosed at stage 4 for rectal cancer (or 1.516  p<0.05) but less so for colonic cancer. there was a trend for both sites for patients in the most deprived quartile to be less likely to receive chemotherapy for stage 4 disease. patients with colonic cancer were very significantly less likely to receive any treatment if they came from any but the most affluent area (ors 0.639  0.603 and 0.544 in increasingly deprived quartiles)  this may have been exacerbated if the hospital was distant from their residence (or for forth quartile for both travel and deprivation 0.731  not significant). the effect was less for rectal cancer and no effect of distance was seen. conclusions residing in a deprived area is associated with tendencies to higher stage at diagnosis and especially in the case of colonic cancer to reduced receipt of treatment. these observations are consistent with other findings and indicate that access to diagnosis requires further investigation.
1056,bedtools: a flexible suite of utilities for comparing genomic features,motivation testing for correlations between different sets of genomic features is a fundamental task in genomics research. however  searching for overlaps between features with existing web-based methods is complicated by the massive datasets that are routinely produced with current sequencing technologies. fast and flexible tools are therefore required to ask complex questions of these data in an efficient manner. results this article introduces a new software suite for the comparison  manipulation and annotation of genomic features in browser extensible data (bed) and general feature format (gff) format. bedtools also supports the comparison of sequence alignments in bam format to both bed and gff features. the tools are extremely efficient and allow the user to compare large datasets (e.g. next-generation sequencing data) with both public and custom genome annotation tracks. bedtools can be combined with one another as well as with standard unix commands  thus facilitating routine genomics tasks as well as pipelines that can quickly answer intricate questions of large genomic datasets. availability and implementation bedtools was written in c++. source code and a comprehensive user manual are freely available at http://code.google.com/p/bedtools   contact aaronquinlan@gmail.com; imh4y@virginia.edu   supplementary information supplementary data are available at bioinformatics online.
1058,antidepressant use and risk of adverse outcomes in older people: population based cohort study,objectives to investigate the association between antidepressant treatment and risk of several potential adverse outcomes in older people with depression and to examine risks by class of antidepressant  duration of use  and dose. design cohort study of people aged 65 and over diagnosed as having depression. setting 570 general practices in the united kingdom supplying data to the qresearch primary care database. participants 60 746 patients diagnosed as having a new episode of depression between the ages of 65 and 100 years from 1 january 1996 to 31 december 2007 and followed up until 31 december 2008. main outcome measures hazard ratios associated with antidepressant use for all cause mortality  attempted suicide/self harm  myocardial infarction  stroke/transient ischaemic attack  falls  fractures  upper gastrointestinal bleeding  epilepsy/seizures  road traffic accidents  adverse drug reactions  and hyponatraemia  adjusted for a range of potential confounding variables. hazard ratios were calculated for antidepressant class (tricyclic and related antidepressants  selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors  other antidepressants)  dose  and duration of use and for commonly prescribed individual drugs. results 54 038 (89.0%) patients received at least one prescription for an antidepressant during follow-up. a total of 1 398 359 antidepressant prescriptions were issued: 764 659 (54.7%) for selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors  442 192 (31.6%) for tricyclic antidepressants  2203 (0.2%) for monoamine oxidase inhibitors  and 189 305 (13.5%) for the group of other antidepressants. the associations with the adverse outcomes differed significantly between the antidepressant classes for seven outcomes. selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors were associated with the highest adjusted hazard ratios for falls (1.66  95% confidence interval 1.58 to 1.73) and hyponatraemia (1.52  1.33 to 1.75) compared with when antidepressants were not being used. the group of other antidepressants was associated with the highest adjusted hazard ratios for all cause mortality (1.66  1.56 to 1.77)  attempted suicide/self harm (5.16  3.90 to 6.83)  stroke/transient ischaemic attack (1.37  1.22 to 1.55)  fracture (1.64  1.46 to 1.84)  and epilepsy/seizures (2.24  1.60 to 3.15)  compared with when antidepressants were not being used. tricyclic antidepressants did not have the highest hazard ratio for any of the outcomes. significantly different associations also existed between the individual drugs for the same seven outcomes; trazodone (tricyclic antidepressant)  mirtazapine  and venlafaxine (both in the group of other antidepressants) were associated with the highest rates for some of these outcomes. absolute risks over 1 year for all cause mortality were 7.04% for patients while not taking antidepressants  8.12% for those taking tricyclic antidepressants  10.61% for selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors  and 11.43% for other antidepressants. conclusions selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and drugs in the group of other antidepressants were associated with an increased risk of several adverse outcomes compared with tricyclic antidepressants. among individual drugs  trazodone  mirtazapine  and venlafaxine were associated with the highest risks for some outcomes. as this is an observational study  it is susceptible to confounding by indication  channelling bias  and residual confounding  so differences in characteristics between patients prescribed different antidepressant drugs that could account for some of the associations between the drugs and the adverse outcomes may remain. further research is needed to confirm these findings  but the risks and benefits of different antidepressants should be carefully evaluated when these drugs are prescribed to older people.
1060,mechanical coupling between transsynaptic n-cadherin adhesions and actin flow stabilizes dendritic spines,the morphology of neuronal dendritic spines is a critical indicator of synaptic function. it is regulated by several factors  including the intracellular actin/myosin cytoskeleton and transcellular n-cadherin adhesions. to examine the mechanical relationship between these molecular components  we performed quantitative live-imaging experiments in primary hippocampal neurons. we found that actin turnover and structural motility were lower in dendritic spines than in immature filopodia and increased upon expression of a nonadhesive n-cadherin mutant  resulting in an inverse relationship between spine motility and actin enrichment. furthermore  the pharmacological stimulation of myosin ii induced the rearward motion of actin structures in spines  showing that myosin ii exerts tension on the actin network. strikingly  the formation of stable  spine-like structures enriched in actin was induced at contacts between dendritic filopodia and n-cadherin-coated beads or micropatterns. finally  computer simulations of actin dynamics mimicked various experimental conditions  pointing to the actin flow rate as an important parameter controlling actin enrichment in dendritic spines. together these data demonstrate that a clutch-like mechanism between n-cadherin adhesions and the actin flow underlies the stabilization of dendritic filopodia into mature spines  a mechanism that may have important implications in synapse initiation  maturation  and plasticity in the developing brain.
1062,therapeutic potential of mood stabilizers lithium and valproic acid: beyond bipolar disorder.,the mood stabilizers lithium and valproic acid (vpa) are traditionally used to treat bipolar disorder (bd)  a severe mental illness arising from complex interactions between genes and environment that drive deficits in cellular plasticity and resiliency. the therapeutic potential of these drugs in other central nervous system diseases is also gaining support. this article reviews the various mechanisms of action of lithium and vpa gleaned from cellular and animal models of neurologic  neurodegenerative  and neuropsychiatric disorders. clinical evidence is included when available to provide a comprehensive perspective of the field and to acknowledge some of the limitations of these treatments. first  the review describes how action at these drugs' primary targets--glycogen synthase kinase-3 for lithium and histone deacetylases for vpa--induces the transcription and expression of neurotrophic  angiogenic  and neuroprotective proteins. cell survival signaling cascades  oxidative stress pathways  and protein quality control mechanisms may further underlie lithium and vpa's beneficial actions. the ability of cotreatment to augment neuroprotection and enhance stem cell homing and migration is also discussed  as are micrornas as new therapeutic targets. finally  preclinical findings have shown that the neuroprotective benefits of these agents facilitate anti-inflammation  angiogenesis  neurogenesis  blood-brain barrier integrity  and disease-specific neuroprotection. these mechanisms can be compared with dysregulated disease mechanisms to suggest core cellular and molecular disturbances identifiable by specific risk biomarkers. future clinical endeavors are warranted to determine the therapeutic potential of lithium and vpa across the spectrum of central nervous system diseases  with particular emphasis on a personalized medicine approach toward treating these disorders.
1064,the epidemiology of sexually transmitted co-infections in hiv-positive and hiv-negative african-caribbean women in toronto,background hiv disproportionately affects african-caribbean women in canada but the frequency and distribution of sexually transmitted infections in this community have not been previously studied. methods we recruited women based on hiv status through a toronto community health centre. participants completed a socio-behavioural questionnaire using audio computer assisted self-interview (acasi) and provided blood for syphilis  hiv  hepatitis b and c  herpes simplex virus type 1 (hsv-1)  herpes simplex virus type 2 (hsv-2)  and human cytomegalovirus (cmv) serology  urine for chlamydia and gonorrhea molecular testing and vaginal secretions for bacterial vaginosis (bv) and human papillomavirus (hpv). differences in prevalence were assessed for statistical significance using chi-square. results we recruited 126 hiv-positive and 291 hiv-negative women  with a median age of 40 and 31 years  respectively (p < 0.001). active hbv infection and lifetime exposure to hbv infection were more common in hiv-positive women (4.8% vs. 0.34%  p = 0.004; and 47.6% vs. 21.2%  p < 0.0001)  as was a self-reported history of hbv vaccination (66.1% vs. 44.0%  p = 0.0001). classical stis were rare in both groups; bv prevalence was low and did not vary by hiv status. hsv-2 infection was markedly more frequent in hiv-positive (86.3%) than hiv-negative (46.6%) women (p < 0.0001). vaginal hpv infection was also more common in hiv-positive than in hiv-negative women (50.8% vs. 22.6%  p < 0.0001) as was infection with high-risk oncogenic hpv types (48.4% vs. 17.3%  p < 0.0001). conclusions classical stis were infrequent in this clinic-based population of african-caribbean women in toronto. however  hsv-2 prevalence was higher than that reported in previous studies in the general canadian population and was strongly associated with hiv infection  as was infection with hepatitis b and hpv.
1066,a conserved mechanism for centromeric nucleosome recognition by centromere protein cenp-c.,chromosome segregation during mitosis requires assembly of the kinetochore complex at the centromere. kinetochore assembly depends on specific recognition of the histone variant cenp-a in the centromeric nucleosome by centromere protein c (cenp-c). we have defined the determinants of this recognition mechanism and discovered that cenp-c binds a hydrophobic region in the cenp-a tail and docks onto the acidic patch of histone h2a and h2b. we further found that the more broadly conserved cenp-c motif uses the same mechanism for cenp-a nucleosome recognition. our findings reveal a conserved mechanism for protein recruitment to centromeres and a histone recognition mode whereby a disordered peptide binds the histone tail through hydrophobic interactions facilitated by nucleosome docking.
1068,reactive oxygen species  dna damage  and error-prone repair: a model for genomic instability with progression in myeloid leukemia?,myelodysplastic syndromes (mds) comprise a heterogeneous group of disorders characterized by ineffective hematopoiesis  with an increased propensity to develop acute myelogenous leukemia (aml). the molecular basis for mds progression is unknown  but a key element in mds disease progression is loss of chromosomal material (genomic instability). using our two-step mouse model for myeloid leukemic disease progression involving overexpression of human mutant nras and bcl2 genes  we show that there is a stepwise increase in the frequency of dna damage leading to an increased frequency of error-prone repair of double-strand breaks (dsb) by nonhomologous end-joining. there is a concomitant increase in reactive oxygen species (ros) in these transgenic mice with disease progression. importantly  rac1  an essential component of the ros-producing nadph oxidase  is downstream of ras  and we show that ros production in nras/bcl2 mice is in part dependent on rac1 activity. dna damage and error-prone repair can be decreased or reversed in vivo by n-acetyl cysteine antioxidant treatment. our data link gene abnormalities to constitutive dna damage and increased dsb repair errors in vivo and provide a mechanism for an increase in the error rate of dna repair with mds disease progression. these data suggest treatment strategies that target ras/rac pathways and ros production in human mds/aml.
1070,pyruvate dehydrogenase activity and acetyl group accumulation during exercise after different diets.,pyruvate dehydrogenase activity (pdha) and acetyl group accumulation were examined in human skeletal muscle at rest and during exercise after different diets. five males cycled at 75% of maximal o2 uptake (vo2 max) to exhaustion after consuming a low-carbohydrate diet (lcd) for 3 days and again 1-2 wk later for the same duration after consuming a high-carbohydrate diet (hcd) for 3 days. resting pdha was lower after a lcd (0.20 +/- 0.04 vs. 0.69 +/- 0.05 mmol.min-1.kg wet wt-1; p < 0.05) and coincided with a greater intramuscular acetyl-coa-to-coash ratio  acetyl-coa content  and acetylcarnitine content. pdha increased during exercise in both conditions but at a lower rate in the lcd condition compared with the hcd condition (1.46 +/- 0.25 vs. 2.65 +/- 0.23 mmol.min-1.kg wet wt-1 at 16 min and 1.88 +/- 0.20 vs. 3.11 +/- 0.14 at the end of exercise; p < 0.05). during exercise muscle acetyl-coa and acetylcarnitine content and the acetyl-coa-to-coash ratio decreased in the lcd condition but increased in the hcd condition. under resting conditions pdha was influenced by the availability of fat or carbohydrate fuels acting through changes in the acetyl-coa-to-coash ratio. however  during exercise the activation of pdha occurred independent of changes in the acetyl-coa-to-coash ratio  suggesting that other factors are more important.
1072,dna methylation mediated down-regulating of microrna-33b and its role in gastric cancer,the discovery of micrornas (mirnas) provides a new and powerful tool for studying the mechanism  diagnosis and treatment of human cancers. currently  down-regulation of tumor suppressive mirnas by cpg island hypermethylation is emerging as a common hallmark of cancer. here  we reported that the down-regulation of mir-33b was associated with pm stage of gastric cancer (gc) patients. ectopic expression of mir-33b in hgc-27 and mgc-803 cells inhibited cell proliferation  migration and invasion  which might be due to mir-33b targeting oncogene c-myc. moreover  enhanced methylation level of the cpg island upstream of mir-33b in gc patients with down-regulated mir-33b was confirmed by methylation-specific pcr (msp) amplification. furthermore  re-introduction of mir-33b significantly suppressed tumorigenesis of gc cells in the nude mice. in conclusion  mir-33b acts as a tumor suppressor and hypermethylation of the cpg island upstream of mir-33b is responsible for its down-regulation in gastric cancer.
1074,socs1/jab is a negative regulator of lps-induced macrophage activation.,bacterial lipopolysaccharide (lps) triggers innate immune responses through toll-like receptor (tlr) 4. we show here that the suppressor of cytokine-signaling-1 (socs1/jab) is rapidly induced by lps and negatively regulates lps signaling. socs1(+/-) mice or socs1(-/-) mice with interferon-gamma (ifngamma)-deficient background were more sensitive to lps-induced lethal effects than were wild-type littermates. lps-induced no(2)(-) synthesis and tnfalpha production were augmented in socs1(-/-) macrophages. furthermore  lps tolerance  a protection mechanism against endotoxin shock  was also strikingly reduced in socs1(-/-) cells. lps-induced i-kappab and p38 phosphorylation was upregulated in socs1(-/-) macrophages  and forced expression of socs1 suppressed lps-induced nf-kappab activation. thus  socs1 directly suppresses tlr4 signaling and modulates innate immunity.
1076,the nlrp12 sensor negatively regulates autoinflammatory disease by modulating interleukin-4 production in t cells.,missense mutations in the nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain (nod)-like receptor pyrin domain containing family of gene 12 (nlrp12) are associated with periodic fever syndromes and atopic dermatitis in humans. here  we have demonstrated a crucial role for nlrp12 in negatively regulating pathogenic t cell responses. nlrp12(-/-) mice responded to antigen immunization with hyperinflammatory t cell responses. furthermore  transfer of cd4(+)cd45rb(hi)nlrp12(-/-) t cells into immunodeficient mice led to more severe colitis and atopic dermatitis. nlrp12 deficiency did not  however  cause exacerbated ascending paralysis during experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (eae); instead  nlrp12(-/-) mice developed atypical neuroinflammatory symptoms that were characterized by ataxia and loss of balance. enhanced t-cell-mediated interleukin-4 (il-4) production promotes the development of atypical eae disease in nlrp12(-/-) mice. these results define an unexpected role for nlrp12 as an intrinsic negative regulator of t-cell-mediated immunity and identify altered nf-κb regulation and il-4 production as key mediators of nlrp12-associated disease.
1078,sirt1 redistribution on chromatin promotes genomic stability but alters gene expression during aging,genomic instability and alterations in gene expression are hallmarks of eukaryotic aging. the yeast histone deacetylase sir2 silences transcription and stabilizes repetitive dna  but during aging or in response to a dna break  the sir complex relocalizes to sites of genomic instability  resulting in the desilencing of genes that cause sterility  a characteristic of yeast aging. using embryonic stem cells  we show that mammalian sir2  sirt1  represses repetitive dna and a functionally diverse set of genes across the mouse genome. in response to dna damage  sirt1 dissociates from these loci and relocalizes to dna breaks to promote repair  resulting in transcriptional changes that parallel those in the aging mouse brain. increased sirt1 expression promotes survival in a mouse model of genomic instability and suppresses age-dependent transcriptional changes. thus  dna damage-induced redistribution of sirt1 and other chromatin-modifying proteins may be a conserved mechanism of aging in eukaryotes.
1080,notch signalling acts in postmitotic avian myogenic cells to control myod activation.,during drosophila myogenesis  notch signalling acts at multiple steps of the muscle differentiation process. in vertebrates  notch activation has been shown to block myod activation and muscle differentiation in vitro  suggesting that this pathway may act to maintain the cells in an undifferentiated proliferative state. in this paper  we address the role of notch signalling in vivo during chick myogenesis. we first demonstrate that the notch1 receptor is expressed in postmitotic cells of the myotome and that the notch ligands delta1 and serrate2 are detected in subsets of differentiating myogenic cells and are thus in position to signal to notch1 during myogenic differentiation. we also reinvestigate the expression of myod and myf5 during avian myogenesis  and observe that myf5 is expressed earlier than myod  consistent with previous results in the mouse. we then show that forced expression of the notch ligand  delta1  during early myogenesis  using a retroviral system  has no effect on the expression of the early myogenic markers pax3 and myf5  but causes strong down-regulation of myod in infected somites. although delta1 overexpression results in the complete lack of differentiated muscles  detailed examination of the infected embryos shows that initial formation of a myotome is not prevented  indicating that exit from the cell cycle has not been blocked. these results suggest that notch signalling acts in postmitotic myogenic cells to control a critical step of muscle differentiation.
1082,analysis of human cytomegalovirus-encoded microrna activity during infection.,micrornas (mirnas) are expressed in a wide variety of organisms  ranging from plants to animals  and are key posttranscriptional regulators of gene expression. virally encoded mirnas are unique in that they could potentially target both viral and host genes. indeed  we have previously demonstrated that a human cytomegalovirus (hcmv)-encoded mirna  mir-ul112  downregulates the expression of a host immune gene  micb. remarkably  it was shown that the same mirna also downregulates immediate-early viral genes and that its ectopic expression resulted in reduced viral replication and viral titers. the targets for most of the viral mirnas  and hence their functions  are still unknown. here we demonstrate that mir-ul112 also targets the ul114 gene  and we present evidence that the reduction of ul114 by mir-ul112 reduces its activity as uracil dna glycosylase but only minimally affects virus growth. in addition  we show that two additional hcmv-encoded mirnas  mir-us25-1 and mir-us25-2  reduce the viral replication and dna synthesis not only of hcmv but also of other viruses  suggesting that these two mirnas target cellular genes that are essential for virus growth. thus  we suggest that in addition to mir-ul112  two additional hcmv mirnas control the life cycle of the virus.
1084,cytochemical analysis of pollen development in wild-type arabidopsis and a male-sterile mutant.,microsporogenesis has been examined in wild-type arabidopsis thaliana and the nuclear male-sterile mutant bm3 by cytochemical staining. the mutant lacks adenine phosphoribosyltransferase  an enzyme of the purine salvage pathway that converts adenine to amp. pollen development in the mutant began to diverge from wild type just after meiosis  as the tetrads of microspores were released from their callose walls. the first indication of abnormal pollen development in the mutant was a darker staining of the microspore wall due to an incomplete synthesis of the intine. vacuole formation was delayed and irregular in the mutant  and the majority of the mutant microspores failed to undergo mitotic divisions. enzyme activities of alcohol dehydrogenase and esterases decreased in the mutant soon after meiosis and were undetectable in mature pollen grains of the mutant. rna accumulation was also diminished. these results are discussed in relation to the possible role(s) of adenine salvage in pollen development.
1086,cancer pharmacogenomics and pharmacoepidemiology: setting a research agenda to accelerate translation,recent advances in genomic research have demonstrated a substantial role for genomic factors in predicting response to cancer therapies. researchers in the fields of cancer pharmacogenomics and pharmacoepidemiology seek to understand why individuals respond differently to drug therapy  in terms of both adverse effects and treatment efficacy. to identify research priorities as well as the resources and infrastructure needed to advance these fields  the national cancer institute (nci) sponsored a workshop titled "cancer pharmacogenomics: setting a research agenda to accelerate translation" on july 21  2009  in bethesda  md. in this commentary  we summarize and discuss five science-based recommendations and four infrastructure-based recommendations that were identified as a result of discussions held during this workshop. key recommendations include 1) supporting the routine collection of germline and tumor biospecimens in nci-sponsored clinical trials and in some observational and population-based studies; 2) incorporating pharmacogenomic markers into clinical trials; 3) addressing the ethical  legal  social  and biospecimen- and data-sharing implications of pharmacogenomic and pharmacoepidemiologic research; and 4) establishing partnerships across nci  with other federal agencies  and with industry. together  these recommendations will facilitate the discovery and validation of clinical  sociodemographic  lifestyle  and genomic markers related to cancer treatment response and adverse events  and they will improve both the speed and efficiency by which new pharmacogenomic and pharmacoepidemiologic information is translated into clinical practice.
1088,estrogens  progestogens  normal breast cell proliferation  and breast cancer risk.,epidemiologic studies suggest that ovarian hormones contribute to the development of breast cancer at all stages. early menopause and premenopausal obesity reduces the risk while postmenopausal obesity and menopausal estrogen replacement therapy increases the risk. combined oral contraceptives and depo-provera do not reduce the risk. it appears that estrogens and progestogens act through and with proto-oncogenes and growth factors to affect breast cell proliferation and breast cancer etiology. animal studies suggest that estrogen causes interlobular ductal cell division and progesterone causes increased terminal duct lobular unit cell division in the luteal phase. most breast carcinomas originate from terminal duct lobular unit cells. during pregnancy  these cells fully multiply. their reproduction is also increased during the luteal phase. yet  there is considerable interpersonal variation. no studies examining breast cell division have compared cell division rates with serum hormone concentrations  however. the peak of mitosis occurs about 3 days before breast cell death in the late luteal and very early follicular phases. other research suggests that breast stem cell proliferation is linked to breast cancer development. endocrine therapy reduces mitotic activity  indicating the estrogen and progesterone receptor content of breast cancers. hormone-dependent breast cancer cell lines are all estrogen-dependent. progesterone can block the estrogen-dependent cell lines which act like endometrial cells. the results of the various breast cell proliferation studies in relation to breast cancer are unclear and research identifying a molecular explanation would help in understanding the different findings.
1090,impact of diabetes on long-term prognosis in patients with unstable angina and non-q-wave myocardial infarction: results of the oasis (organization to assess strategies for ischemic syndromes) registry.,background although unstable coronary artery disease is the most common reason for admission to a coronary care unit  the long-term prognosis of patients with this diagnosis is unknown. this is particularly true for patients with diabetes mellitus  who are known to have a high morbidity and mortality after an acute myocardial infarction. methods and results prospectively collected data from 6 different countries in the organization to assess strategies for ischemic syndromes (oasis) registry were analyzed to determine the 2-year prognosis of diabetic and nondiabetic patients who were hospitalized with unstable angina or non-q-wave myocardial infarction. overall  1718 of 8013 registry patients (21%) had diabetes. diabetic patients had a higher rate of coronary bypass surgery than nondiabetic patients (23% versus 20%  p:<0.001) but had similar rates of catheterization and angioplasty. diabetes independently predicted mortality (relative risk [rr]  1.57; 95% ci  1.38 to 1.81; p:<0.001)  as well as cardiovascular death  new myocardial infarction  stroke  and new congestive heart failure. moreover  compared with their nondiabetic counterparts  women had a significantly higher risk than men (rr  1.98; 95% ci  1.60 to 2.44; and rr  1.28; 95% ci  1.06 to 1.56  respectively). interestingly  diabetic patients without prior cardiovascular disease had the same event rates for all outcomes as nondiabetic patients with previous vascular disease. conclusions hospitalization for unstable angina or non-q-wave myocardial infarction predicts a high 2-year morbidity and mortality; this is especially evident for patients with diabetes. diabetic patients with no previous cardiovascular disease have the same long-term morbidity and mortality as nondiabetic patients with established cardiovascular disease after hospitalization for unstable coronary artery disease.
1092,cognitive behavioral therapy vs zopiclone for treatment of chronic primary insomnia in older adults: a randomized controlled trial.,context insomnia is a common condition in older adults and is associated with a number of adverse medical  social  and psychological consequences. previous research has suggested beneficial outcomes of both psychological and pharmacological treatments  but blinded placebo-controlled trials comparing the effects of these treatments are lacking. objective to examine short- and long-term clinical efficacy of cognitive behavioral therapy (cbt) and pharmacological treatment in older adults experiencing chronic primary insomnia. design  setting  and participants a randomized  double-blinded  placebo-controlled trial of 46 adults (mean age  60.8 y; 22 women) with chronic primary insomnia conducted between january 2004 and december 2005 in a single norwegian university-based outpatient clinic for adults and elderly patients. intervention cbt (sleep hygiene  sleep restriction  stimulus control  cognitive therapy  and relaxation; n = 18)  sleep medication (7.5-mg zopiclone each night; n = 16)  or placebo medication (n = 12). all treatment duration was 6 weeks  and the 2 active treatments were followed up at 6 months. main outcome measures ambulant clinical polysomnographic data and sleep diaries were used to determine total wake time  total sleep time  sleep efficiency  and slow-wave sleep (only assessed using polysomnography) on all 3 assessment points. results cbt resulted in improved short- and long-term outcomes compared with zopiclone on 3 out of 4 outcome measures. for most outcomes  zopiclone did not differ from placebo. participants receiving cbt improved their sleep efficiency from 81.4% at pretreatment to 90.1% at 6-month follow-up compared with a decrease from 82.3% to 81.9% in the zopiclone group. participants in the cbt group spent much more time in slow-wave sleep (stages 3 and 4) compared with those in other groups  and spent less time awake during the night. total sleep time was similar in all 3 groups; at 6 months  patients receiving cbt had better sleep efficiency using polysomnography than those taking zopiclone. conclusion these results suggest that interventions based on cbt are superior to zopiclone treatment both in short- and long-term management of insomnia in older adults. trial registration clinicaltrials.gov identifier: nct00295386.
1094,humans and great apes share a large frontal cortex,some of the outstanding cognitive capabilities of humans are commonly attributed to a disproportionate enlargement of the human frontal lobe during evolution. this claim is based primarily on comparisons between the brains of humans and of other primates  to the exclusion of most great apes. we compared the relative size of the frontal cortices in living specimens of several primate species  including all extant hominoids  using magnetic resonance imaging. human frontal cortices were not disproportionately large in comparison to those of the great apes. we suggest that the special cognitive abilities attributed to a frontal advantage may be due to differences in individual cortical areas and to a richer interconnectivity  none of which required an increase in the overall relative size of the frontal lobe during hominid evolution.
1096,camkii triggers the diffusional trapping of surface ampars through phosphorylation of stargazin,the ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase ii (camkii) is critically required for the synaptic recruitment of ampa-type glutamate receptors (ampars) during both development and plasticity. however  the underlying mechanism is unknown. using single-particle tracking of ampars  we show that camkii activation and postsynaptic translocation induce the synaptic trapping of ampars diffusing in the membrane. ampar immobilization requires both phosphorylation of the auxiliary subunit stargazin and its binding to pdz domain scaffolds. it does not depend on the pdz binding domain of glua1 ampar subunit nor its phosphorylation at ser831. finally  camkii-dependent ampar immobilization regulates short-term plasticity. thus  nmda-dependent ca(2+) influx in the post-synapse triggers a camkii- and stargazin-dependent decrease in ampar diffusional exchange at synapses that controls synaptic function.
1098,drinking pattern and mortality: the italian risk factor and life expectancy pooling project.,purpose to analyze the relationship between an aspect of drinking pattern (i.e.  drinking with or without meals) and risk of all-cause and specific-cause mortality. methods the risk factors and life expectancy study  is a pooling of a series of epidemiological studies conducted in italy. eight-thousand six-hundred and forty-seven men and 6521 women  age 30-59 at baseline  and free of cardiovascular disease  were followed for mortality from all causes  cardiovascular and noncardiovascular  during an average follow-up of 7 years. results drinkers of wine outside meals exhibited higher death rates from all causes  noncardiovascular diseases  and cancer  as compared to drinkers of wine with meals. this association was independent from the cardiovascular disease (cvd) risk factors measured at baseline and the amount of alcohol consumed and seemed to be stronger in women as compared to men. conclusions the present results indicate that drinking patterns may have important health implications  and attention should be given to this aspect of alcohol use and its relationship to health outcomes. the relationship between alcohol consumption and disease has been the focus of intensive scientific investigation (1-9). most studies to date  however  have limitations. a major drawback is that limited information has been collected regarding the complex issue of alcohol consumption. in many studies  ascertainment of alcohol consumption frequently focused only on quantity of alcohol consumed without considering the many different components of alcohol consumption  particularly drinking pattern (10-12). it has been hypothesized  and preliminary data support the notion  that drinking pattern could have important influences on determining the health effects of alcohol (13 14). the present study examines the relationship between one aspect of drinking pattern (drinking wine outside meals) and mortality in a large cohort of men and women.
1100,adar1 forms a complex with dicer to promote microrna processing and rna-induced gene silencing,adenosine deaminases acting on rna (adars) are involved in rna editing that converts adenosine residues to inosine specifically in double-stranded rnas. in this study  we investigated the interaction of the rna editing mechanism with the rna interference (rnai) machinery and found that adar1 forms a complex with dicer through direct protein-protein interaction. most importantly  adar1 increases the maximum rate (vmax) of pre-microrna (mirna) cleavage by dicer and facilitates loading of mirna onto rna-induced silencing complexes  identifying a new role of adar1 in mirna processing and rnai mechanisms. adar1 differentiates its functions in rna editing and rnai by the formation of either adar1/adar1 homodimer or dicer/adar1 heterodimer complexes  respectively. as expected  the expression of mirnas is globally inhibited in adar1(-/-) mouse embryos  which  in turn  alters the expression of their target genes and might contribute to their embryonic lethal phenotype.
1102,exome sequencing identifies somatic gain-of-function ppm1d mutations in brainstem gliomas,gliomas arising in the brainstem and thalamus are devastating tumors that are difficult to surgically resect. to determine the genetic and epigenetic landscape of these tumors  we performed exomic sequencing of 14 brainstem gliomas (bsgs) and 12 thalamic gliomas. we also performed targeted mutational analysis of an additional 24 such tumors and genome-wide methylation profiling of 45 gliomas. this study led to the discovery of tumor-specific mutations in ppm1d  encoding wild-type p53-induced protein phosphatase 1d (wip1)  in 37.5% of the bsgs that harbored hallmark h3f3a mutations encoding p. lys27met substitutions. ppm1d mutations were mutually exclusive with tp53 mutations in bsg and attenuated p53 activation in vitro. ppm1d mutations were truncating alterations in exon 6 that enhanced the ability of ppm1d to suppress the activation of the dna damage response checkpoint protein chk2. these results define ppm1d as a frequent target of somatic mutation and as a potential therapeutic target in brainstem gliomas.
1104,dendritic cell klf2 expression regulates t cell activation and proatherogenic immune responses.,dendritic cells (dcs) have been implicated as important regulators of innate and adaptive inflammation in many diseases  including atherosclerosis. however  the molecular mechanisms by which dcs mitigate or promote inflammatory pathogenesis are only partially understood. previous studies have shown an important anti-inflammatory role for the transcription factor krüppel-like factor 2 (klf2) in regulating activation of various cell types that participate in atherosclerotic lesion development  including endothelial cells  macrophages  and t cells. we used a pan-dc  cd11c-specific cre-lox gene knockout mouse model to assess the role of klf2 in dc activation  function  and control of inflammation in the context of hypercholesterolemia and atherosclerosis. we found that klf2 deficiency enhanced surface expression of costimulatory molecules cd40 and cd86 in dcs and promoted increased t cell proliferation and apoptosis. transplant of bone marrow from mice with klf2-deficient dcs into ldlr-/- mice aggravated atherosclerosis compared with control mice  most likely due to heightened vascular inflammation evidenced by increased dc presence within lesions  enhanced t cell activation and cytokine production  and increased cell death in atherosclerotic lesions. taken together  these data indicate that klf2 governs the degree of dc activation and hence the intensity of proatherogenic t cell responses.
1106,plasma soluble corin in patients with heart failure.,background corin is a transmembrane protease that processes natriuretic peptides in the heart. like many membrane proteins  corin is shed from the cell surface. methods and results in this study  we obtained plasma samples from healthy controls and patients with heart failure (hf) and acute myocardial infarction. soluble corin levels in plasma were measured by an elisa method. in healthy adults (n=198)  plasma corin levels were 690 pg/ml (sd  260 pg/ml). the corin levels did not differ significantly among different age groups. in patients with hf (n=291)  plasma corin levels were significantly lower compared with that of healthy controls (365 pg/ml [sd  259]; p<0.001). the reduction in plasma corin levels seemed to correlate with the severity of hf. in patients of new york heart association classes ii  iii  and iv  plasma corin levels were 450 pg/ml (sd  281 pg/ml; n=69)  377 pg/ml (sd  270 pg/ml; n=132)  and 282 pg/ml (sd  194 pg/ml; n=90)  respectively (p<0.001 class ii vs class iv; p<0.05 class iii vs class iv). in contrast  plasma corin levels in patients with acute myocardial infarction (n=73) were similar to that of healthy controls (678 pg/ml [sd  285 pg/ml]; p>0.05). conclusions soluble corin was detected in human plasma. plasma corin levels were reduced significantly in patients with hf but not in those with acute myocardial infarction. our results indicate that corin deficiency may contribute to the pathogenesis of hf and that plasma corin may be used as a biomarker in the diagnosis of hf.
1108,structural brain correlates associated with professional handball playing,background there is no doubt that good bimanual performance is very important for skilled handball playing. the control of the non-dominant hand is especially demanding since efficient catching and throwing needs both hands. methodology/hypotheses we investigated training-induced structural neuroplasticity in professional handball players using several structural neuroimaging techniques and analytic approaches and also provide a review of the literature about sport-induced structural neuroplastic alterations. structural brain adaptations were expected in regions relevant for motor and somatosensory processing such as the grey matter (gm) of the primary/secondary motor (mi/supplementary motor area  sma) and somatosensory cortex (si/sii)  basal ganglia  thalamus  and cerebellum and in the white matter (wm) of the corticospinal tract (cst) and corpus callosum  stronger in brain regions controlling the non-dominant left hand. results increased gm volume in handball players compared with control subjects were found in the right mi/si  bilateral sma/cingulate motor area  and left intraparietal sulcus. fractional anisotropy (fa) and axial diffusivity were increased within the right cst in handball players compared with control women. age of handball training commencement correlated inversely with gm volume in the right and left mi/si and years of handball training experience correlated inversely with radial diffusivity in the right cst. subcortical structures tended to be larger in handball players. the anatomical measures of the brain regions associated with handball playing were positively correlated in handball players  but not interrelated in control women. discussion/conclusion training-induced structural alterations were found in the somatosensory-motor network of handball players  more pronounced in the right hemisphere controlling the non-dominant left hand. correlations between handball training-related measures and anatomical differences suggest neuroplastic adaptations rather than a genetic predisposition for a ball playing affinity. investigations of neuroplasticity specifically in sportsmen might help to understand the neural mechanisms of expertise in general.
1110,effects of a high-fat diet exposure in utero on the metabolic syndrome-like phenomenon in mouse offspring through epigenetic changes in adipocytokine gene expression.,the links between obesity in parents and their offspring and the role of genes and a shared environment are not completely understood. adipocytokines such as leptin and adiponectin play important roles in glucose and lipid metabolism. therefore  we examined whether the offspring from dams exposed to a high-fat diet during pregnancy (oh mice) exhibited hypertension  insulin resistance  and hyperlipidemia along with epigenetic changes in the expression of adipocytokine genes. oh mice were significantly heavier than the offspring of dams exposed to a control diet during pregnancy (oc mice) from 14 wk of age after an increased caloric intake from 8 wk. oh mice exhibited higher blood pressure and worse glucose tolerance than the oc mice at 24 wk. total triglyceride and leptin levels were significantly higher and the adiponectin level was significantly lower in oh compared with oc mice at 12 wk of age. this was associated with changes in leptin and adiponectin expression in white adipose tissue. there were lower acetylation and higher methylation levels of histone h3 at lysine 9 of the promoter of adiponectin in adipose tissues of oh mice at 2 wk of age as well as at 12 and 24 wk of age compared with oc mice. in contrast  methylation of histone 4 at lysine 20 in the leptin promoter was significantly higher in oh compared with oc mice. thus  exposure to a high-fat diet in utero might cause a metabolic syndrome-like phenomenon through epigenetic modifications of adipocytokine  adiponectin  and leptin gene expression.
1112,unmet needs and depression among carers of people newly diagnosed with cancer.,aims the aims of this analysis were to examine levels of unmet needs and depression among carers of people newly diagnosed with cancer and to identify groups who may be at higher risk  by examining relationships with demographic characteristics. methods one hundred and fifty dyads of people newly diagnosed with cancer and their carers  aged 18 years and older  were recruited from four australian hospitals. people with cancer receiving adjuvant cancer treatment with curative intent  were eligible to participate. carers completed the supportive care needs survey-partners & caregivers (scns-p&c45)  and both carers and patients completed the centre of epidemiologic-depression scale (ces-d). results overall  57% of carers reported at least one  37% at least three  31% at least five  and 15% at least 10 unmet needs; the most commonly endorsed unmet needs were in the domains of information and health care service needs. thirty percent of carers and 36% of patients were at risk of clinical depression. a weak to moderate positive relationship was observed between unmet needs and carer depression (r=0.30  p<0.001). carer levels of unmet needs were significantly associated with carer age  hospital type  treatment type  cancer type  living situation  relationship status (in both uni- and multi-factor analysis); person with cancer age and carer level of education (in unifactor analysis only); but not with carer gender or patient gender (in both uni- and multi-factor analyses). conclusion findings highlight the importance of developing tailored programmes to systematically assist carers who are supporting patients through the early stages of cancer treatment.
1114,total atherosclerotic burden by whole body magnetic resonance angiography predicts major adverse cardiovascular events.,objective the purpose of the present study was to investigate the relationship between the total atherosclerotic score (tas)  a measurement of the overall atherosclerotic burden of the arterial tree by whole body magnetic resonance angiography (wbmra)  and the risk of major adverse cardiovascular events (mace)  defined as cardiac death  myocardial infarction  stroke and/or coronary revascularization  assuming that tas predicts mace. methods and results 305 randomly selected 70 year-old subjects (47% women) underwent wbmra. their atherosclerotic burden was evaluated and tas > 0  that is atherosclerotic changes  were found in 68% of subjects. during follow-up (mean 4.8 years)  mace occurred in 25 subjects (8.2%). adjusting for multiple risk factors  tas was associated with mace (or 8.86 for any degree of vessel lumen abnormality  95%ci 1.14-69.11  p = 0.037). in addition  tas improved discrimination and reclassification when added to the framingham risk score (frs)  and roc (receiver operator curve) increased from 0.681 to 0.750 (p = 0.0421). conclusion in a population-based sample of 70 year old men and women wbmra  with tas  predicted mace independently of major cardiovascular risk factors.
1116,genetic control of mosquitoes.,genetics can potentially provide new  species-specific  environmentally friendly methods for mosquito control. genetic control strategies aim either to suppress target populations or to introduce a harm-reducing novel trait. different approaches differ considerably in their properties  especially between self-limiting strategies  where the modification has limited persistence  and self-sustaining strategies  which are intended to persist indefinitely in the target population and may invade other populations. several methods with different molecular biology are under development and the first field trials have been completed successfully.
1118,direct neuronal reprogramming: learning from and for development.,the key signalling pathways and transcriptional programmes that instruct neuronal diversity during development have largely been identified. in this review  we discuss how this knowledge has been used to successfully reprogramme various cell types into an amazing array of distinct types of functional neurons. we further discuss the extent to which direct neuronal reprogramming recapitulates embryonic development  and examine the particular barriers to reprogramming that may exist given a cell's unique developmental history. we conclude with a recently proposed model for cell specification called the 'cook islands' model  and consider whether it is a fitting model for cell specification based on recent results from the direct reprogramming field.
1120,antidepressant fluoxetine enhances glucocorticoid receptor function in vitro by modulating membrane steroid transporters.,1. incubation of lmcat fibroblast cells with antidepressants potentiates glucocorticoid receptor (gr)-mediated gene transcription in the presence of dexamethasone and cortisol  but not of corticosterone. we have shown that antidepressants do so by inhibiting the lmcat cell membrane steroid transporter (which is virtually identical to the multidrug resistance p-glycoprotein) and thus by increasing dexamethasone or cortisol intracellular concentrations. however  previous experiments with the antidepressant fluoxetine in the presence of dexamethasone have produced negative results (pariante et al. (2001). br. j. pharmacol.  134  1335-1343). 2. we have since re-examined the effects of fluoxetine on gr-mediated gene transcription in the presence of dexamethasone. moreover  we have examined the effects of fluoxetine on gr-mediated gene transcription in the presence of cortisol and corticosterone  and on the intracellular accumulation of radioactive cortisol and corticosterone. finally  we have examined the effects of fluoxetine on inhibition of p-glycoprotein activity in caco-2 cells. 3. we now find that fluoxetine (1-10 micro m) enhances gr-mediated gene transcription in the presence of dexamethasone and cortisol (+140-170%)  but not of corticosterone  and increases the intracellular accumulation of (3)h-cortisol (+5-15%)  but not of (3)h-corticosterone. moreover  fluoxetine (10 micro m) induces approximately 30% inhibition of pgp activity in caco-2 cells. 4. our results show that fluoxetine  like other antidepressants  inhibits membrane steroid transporters.
1122,separation of mother and daughter cells.,publisher summary the budding yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae ( s. cerevisiae ) divides asymmetrically. in vegetative growth  yeast cells reproduce by budding  and the position where the bud forms ultimately determines the plane of cell division. this chapter describes the detailed procedures for the separation and isolation of mothers and daughters. these protocols have been used by investigators studying aging  bud site selection  and other aspects of asymmetric cell division. the chapter describes the procedures for performing life span analysis by micromanipulation and the steps for the large-scale collection of old cells. at the beginning and the end of a life span  it can be difficult to distinguish mothers from daughters. at most points in the life span  daughter cells are smaller than the mothers that produced them. in addition  mother cells will generally bud a second time before their daughter cells form their first bud. one method for effective isolation of virgin daughter cells from mother cells  but not for recovery of old mothers  is called a “baby machine. ” mother cells are attached to a membrane and allowed to divide. daughter cells from these attached cells are eluted continuously by washing the membrane.
1124,withdrawal symptoms after selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor discontinuation: a systematic review,background: selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (ssri) are widely used in medical practice. they have been associated with a broad range of symptoms  whose clinical meaning has not been fully appreciated. methods: the prisma guidelines were followed to conduct a systematic review of the literature. titles  abstracts  and topics were searched using the following terms: ‘withdrawal symptoms' or ‘withdrawal syndrome' or ‘discontinuation syndrome' or ‘discontinuation symptoms'  and ‘ssri' or ‘serotonin' or ‘antidepressant' or ‘paroxetine' or ‘fluoxetine' or ‘sertraline' or ‘fluvoxamine' or ‘citalopram' or ‘escitalopram'. the electronic research literature databases included cinahl  the cochrane library  pubmed and web-of-science from inception of each database to july 2014. results: there were 15 randomized controlled studies  4 open trials  4 retrospective investigations  and 38 case reports. the prevalence of the syndrome was variable  and its estimation was hindered by a lack of case identification in many studies. symptoms typically occur within a few days from drug discontinuation and last a few weeks  also with gradual tapering. however  many variations are possible  including late onset and/or longer persistence of disturbances. symptoms may be easily misidentified as signs of impending relapse. conclusions: clinicians need to add ssri to the list of drugs potentially inducing withdrawal symptoms upon discontinuation  together with benzodiazepines  barbiturates  and other psychotropic drugs. the term ‘discontinuation syndrome' that is currently used minimizes the potential vulnerabilities induced by ssri and should be replaced by ‘withdrawal syndrome'.
1126,cox-2 and survivin are overexpressed and positively correlated in endometrial carcinoma.,objectives to investigate the expressions of survivin and cyclooxygenase-2 (cox-2)  and their possible correlations in the development of endometrial adenocarcinoma (ec). we also looked at their association with classical prognostic factors in ec. to our knowledge  this is the first time survivin expression is investigated in terms of its relation to cox-2 in the developmental pathway of ec. methods archived tissue samples of 50 ec  30 endometrial hyperplasia and 20 proliferative endometrium were selected and immunohistochemically analyzed for survivin and cox-2 expression. results both survivin and cox-2 were overexpressed in hyperplasia and endometrial adenocarcinoma cases compared to proliferative endometrium  which was statistically significant (p=0.01  p=0.02  respectively). among ec cases  survivin and cox-2 were strongly positive in 38 (76%) and 30 (60%) patients  respectively. furthermore  we found survivin and cox-2 to be positively correlated  which was also statistically significant (p=0.0001  r=0.46). neither survivin nor cox-2 expression was correlated with classical prognostic factors of endometrial carcinoma such as myometrial invasion  grade or lymph node metastasis (p>0.05). neither cox-2 nor survivin had an impact on overall survival (p>0.05). conclusions both survivin and cox-2 are overexpressed  and they seem to be early events in the occurrence of ec. moreover  protein products of these two genes are positively correlated. cox-2 and survivin might share a common molecular pathway or enhance each other's actions in the developmental pathway of ec. molecular basis of such a relationship should be further investigated in endometrial carcinogenesis.
1128,ccr7 provides localized access to il-2 and defines homeostatically distinct regulatory t cell subsets,immune tolerance and activation depend on precise control over the number and function of immunosuppressive foxp3(+) regulatory t (t reg) cells  and the importance of il-2 in maintaining tolerance and preventing autoimmunity is clear. however  the homeostatic requirement for il-2 among specific populations of peripheral t reg cells remains poorly understood. we show that il-2 selectively maintains a population of quiescent cd44(lo)cd62l(hi) t reg cells that gain access to paracrine il-2 produced in the t cell zones of secondary lymphoid tissues due to their expression of the chemokine receptor ccr7. in contrast  cd44(hi)cd62l(lo)ccr7(lo) t reg cells that populate nonlymphoid tissues do not access il-2-prevalent regions in vivo and are insensitive to il-2 blockade; instead  their maintenance depends on continued signaling through the co-stimulatory receptor icos (inducible co-stimulator). thus  we define a fundamental homeostatic subdivision in t reg cell populations based on their localization and provide an integrated framework for understanding how t reg cell abundance and function are controlled by unique signals in different tissue environments.
1130,evaluation of a mental health outreach service for homeless families.,aims to describe the characteristics of homeless children and families seen by the mental health outreach service (mhos)  to evaluate the impact of this service on the short term psychosocial functioning of children and parents  and to establish perceptions of  and satisfaction with  the service. methods twenty seven children from 23 families who were in receipt of the mhos and 27 children from 23 families residing in other hostels where no such service was available were studied. the mhos was delivered by a clinical nurse specialist with expertise in child mental health  who offered the following interventions: assessment and brief treatment of mental health disorders in children; liaison with agencies; and training of homeless centre staff. results children in the experimental group had a significantly higher decrease in strengths and difficulties questionnaire (sdq) total scores. having received the intervention was the strongest predictor of improvement in sdq total scores. there was no significant impact on parental mental health (general health questionnaire) scores. homeless families and staff expressed high satisfaction with the mhos. conclusion this mhos for homeless families is an innovative intervention which meets the complex and multiple needs of a vulnerable population unable to access mainstream mental health services. the primary objective of the service was to improve child mental health problems; however  the service developed in a responsive way by meeting social and practical needs of families in addition to its clinical role.
1132,agdscam  a hypervariable immunoglobulin domain-containing receptor of the       anopheles gambiae innate immune system     ,activation of the insect innate immune system is dependent on a limited number of pattern recognition receptors (prrs) capable of interacting with pathogen-associated molecular pattern. here we report a novel role of an alternatively spliced hypervariable immunoglobulin domain-encoding gene  dscam  in generating a broad range of prrs implicated in immune defense in the malaria vector anopheles gambiae. the mosquito down syndrome cell adhesion molecule gene  agdscam  has a complex genome organization with 101 exons that can produce over 31 000 potential alternative splice forms with different combinations of adhesive domains and interaction specificities. agdscam responds to infection by producing pathogen challenge-specific splice form repertoires. transient silencing of agdscam compromises the mosquito's resistance to infections with bacteria and the malaria parasite plasmodium. agdscam is mediating phagocytosis of bacteria with which it can associate and defend against in a splice form–specific manner. agdscam is a hypervariable prr of the a. gambiae innate immune system.
1134,islet1 derivatives in the heart are of both neural crest and second heart field origin.,rationale islet1 (isl1) has been proposed as a marker of cardiac progenitor cells derived from the second heart field and is utilized to identify and purify cardiac progenitors from murine and human specimens for ex vivo expansion. the use of isl1 as a specific second heart field marker is dependent on its exclusion from other cardiac lineages such as neural crest. objective determine whether isl1 is expressed by cardiac neural crest. methods and results we used an intersectional fate-mapping system using the rc::frepe allele  which reports dual flpe and cre recombination. combining isl1(cre/+)  a shf driver  and wnt1::flpe  a neural crest driver  with rc::frepe reveals that some isl1 derivatives in the cardiac outflow tract derive from wnt1-expressing neural crest progenitors. in contrast  no overlap was observed between wnt1-derived neural crest and an alternative second heart field driver  mef2c-ahf-cre. conclusions isl1 is not restricted to second heart field progenitors in the developing heart but also labels cardiac neural crest. the intersection of isl1 and wnt1 lineages within the heart provides a caveat to using isl1 as an exclusive second heart field cardiac progenitor marker and suggests that some isl1-expressing progenitor cells derived from embryos  embryonic stem cultures  or induced pluripotent stem cultures may be of neural crest lineage.
1136,chronophin mediates an atp-sensing mechanism for cofilin dephosphorylation and neuronal cofilin-actin rod formation.,actin and its key regulatory component  cofilin  are found together in large rod-shaped assemblies in neurons subjected to energy stress. such inclusions are also enriched in alzheimer's disease brain  and appear in transgenic models of neurodegeneration. neuronal insults  such as energy loss and/or oxidative stress  result in rapid dephosphorylation of the cellular cofilin pool prior to its assembly into rod-shaped inclusions. although these events implicate a role for phosphatases in cofilin rod formation  a mechanism linking energy stress  phosphocofilin turnover  and subsequent rod assembly has been elusive. we demonstrate the atp-sensitive interaction of the cofilin phosphatase chronophin (cin) with the chaperone hsp90 to form a biosensor that mediates cofilin/actin rod formation. our results suggest a model whereby attenuated interactions between cin and hsp90 during atp depletion enhance cin-dependent cofilin dephosphorylation and consequent rod assembly  thereby providing a mechanism for the formation of pathological actin/cofilin aggregates during neurodegenerative energy flux.
1138,greater clinical benefit of more intensive oral antiplatelet therapy with prasugrel in patients with diabetes mellitus in the trial to assess improvement in therapeutic outcomes by optimizing platelet inhibition with prasugrel-thrombolysis in myocardial infarction 38.,background patients with diabetes mellitus (dm) are at high risk for recurrent cardiovascular events after acute coronary syndromes  in part because of increased platelet reactivity. the trial to assess improvement in therapeutic outcomes by optimizing platelet inhibition with prasugrel-thrombolysis in myocardial infarction 38 (triton-timi 38) showed an overall reduction in ischemic events with more intensive antiplatelet therapy with prasugrel than with clopidogrel but with more bleeding. we compared prasugrel with clopidogrel among subjects with dm in triton-timi 38. methods and results we classified 13 608 subjects on the basis of preexisting history of dm and further according to insulin use. prespecified analyses of the primary (cardiovascular death  nonfatal myocardial infarction  or nonfatal stroke) and key secondary end points  including net clinical benefit (death  nonfatal myocardial infarction  nonfatal stroke  and nonfatal timi major bleeding) were compared by use of the log-rank test. we found that 3146 subjects had a preexisting history of dm  including 776 receiving insulin. the primary end point was reduced significantly with prasugrel among subjects without dm (9.2% versus 10.6%; hazard ratio [hr]  0.86; p=0.02) and with dm (12.2% versus 17.0%; hr  0.70; p<0.001  p(interaction)=0.09). a benefit for prasugrel was observed among dm subjects on insulin (14.3% versus 22.2%; hr  0.63; p=0.009) and those not on insulin (11.5% versus 15.3%; hr  0.74; p=0.009). myocardial infarction was reduced with prasugrel by 18% among subjects without dm (7.2% versus 8.7%; hr  0.82; p=0.006) and by 40% among subjects with dm (8.2% versus 13.2%; hr  0.60; p<0.001  p(interaction)=0.02). although timi major hemorrhage was increased among subjects without dm on prasugrel (1.6% versus 2.4%; hr  1.43; p=0.02)  the rates were similar among subjects with dm for clopidogrel and prasugrel (2.6% versus 2.5%; hr  1.06; p=0.81  p(interaction)=0.29). net clinical benefit with prasugrel was greater for subjects with dm (14.6% versus 19.2%; hr  0.74; p=0.001) than for subjects without dm (11.5% versus 12.3%; hr  0.92; p=0.16  p(interaction)=0.05). conclusions subjects with dm tended to have a greater reduction in ischemic events without an observed increase in timi major bleeding and therefore a greater net treatment benefit with prasugrel compared with clopidogrel. these data demonstrate that the more intensive oral antiplatelet therapy provided with prasugrel is of particular benefit to patients with dm.
1140,sirtuin-1 is a nutrient-dependent modulator of inflammation,inflammation accompanies obesity and its comorbidities-type 2 diabetes  non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and atherosclerosis  among others-and may contribute to their pathogenesis. yet the cellular machinery that links nutrient sensing to inflammation remains incompletely characterized. the protein deacetylase sirtuin-1 (sirt1) is activated by energy depletion and plays a critical role in the mammalian response to fasting. more recently it has been implicated in the repression of inflammation. sirt1 mrna and protein expression are suppressed in obese rodent and human white adipose tissue  while experimental reduction of sirt1 in adipocytes and macrophages causes low-grade inflammation that mimics that observed in obesity. thus suppression of sirt1 during overnutrition may be critical to the development of obesity-associated inflammation. this effect is attributable to multiple actions of sirt1  including direct deacetylation of nfκb and chromatin remodeling at inflammatory gene promoters. in this work  we report that sirt1 is also suppressed by diet-induced obesity in macrophages  which are key contributors to the ontogeny of metabolic inflammation. thus  sirt1 may be a common mechanism by which cells sense nutrient status and modulate inflammatory signaling networks in accordance with organismal energy availability.
1142,biomarkers of endothelial dysfunction and risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus.,context endothelial dysfunction occurs in diagnosed type 2 diabetes mellitus but may also precede development of diabetes. objective to determine whether elevated plasma levels of biomarkers reflecting endothelial dysfunction (e-selectin; intercellular adhesion molecule 1 [icam-1]; and vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 [vcam-1]) predict development of type 2 diabetes in initially nondiabetic women. design and setting prospective  nested case-control study within the nurses' health study  an ongoing us study initiated in 1976. participants of 121 700 women initially enrolled  32 826 provided blood samples in 1989-1990; of those free of diabetes  cardiovascular disease  or cancer at baseline  737 developed incident diabetes by 2000. controls (n = 785) were selected according to matched age  fasting status  and race. main outcome measure risk of confirmed clinically diagnosed type 2 diabetes by baseline levels of e-selectin  icam-1  and vcam-1. results baseline median levels of the biomarkers were significantly higher among cases than among controls (e-selectin  61.2 vs 45.4 ng/ml; icam-1  264.9 vs 247.0 ng/ml; vcam-1  545.4 vs 526.0 ng/ml [all p values < or =.004]). elevated e-selectin and icam-1 levels predicted incident diabetes in logistic regression models conditioned on matching criteria and adjusted for body mass index (bmi)  family history of diabetes  smoking  diet score  alcohol intake  activity index  and postmenopausal hormone use. the adjusted relative risks for incident diabetes in the top quintile vs the bottom quintiles were 5.43 for e-selectin (95% confidence interval [ci]  3.47-8.50)  3.56 for icam-1 (95% ci  2.28-5.58)  and 1.12 for vcam-1 (95% ci  0.76-1.66). adjustment for waist circumference instead of bmi or further adjustment for baseline levels of c-reactive protein  fasting insulin  and hemoglobin a(1c) or exclusion of cases diagnosed during the first 4 years of follow-up did not alter these associations. conclusion endothelial dysfunction predicts type 2 diabetes in women independent of other known risk factors  including obesity and subclinical inflammation.
1144,dynamics in the plasma membrane: how to combine fluidity and order.,cell membranes are fascinating supramolecular aggregates that not only form a barrier between compartments but also harbor many chemical reactions essential to the existence and functioning of a cell. here  it is proposed to review the molecular dynamics and mosaic organization of the plasma membrane  which are thought to have important functional implications. we will first summarize the basic concepts of brownian diffusion and lipid domain formation in model membranes and then track the development of ideas and tools in this field  outlining key results obtained on the dynamic processes at work in membrane structure and assembly. we will focus in particular on findings made using fluorescent labeling and imaging procedures to record these dynamic processes. we will also discuss a few examples showing the impact of lateral diffusion on cell signal transduction  and outline some future methodological challenges which must be met before we can answer some of the questions arising in this field of research.
1146,maximum likelihood estimates of species trees: how accuracy of phylogenetic inference depends upon the divergence history and sampling design.,the understanding that gene trees are often in discord with each other and with the species trees that contain them has led researchers to methods that incorporate the inherent stochasticity of genetic processes in the phylogenetic estimation procedure. recently developed methods for species-tree estimation that not only consider the retention and sorting of ancestral polymorphism but also quantify the actual probabilities of incomplete lineage sorting are expected to provide an improvement over earlier summary-statistic based approaches that discard much of the information content of gene trees. however  these new methods have yet to be tested on truly challenging evolutionary histories such as those marked by recent rapid speciation where high levels of incomplete lineage sorting and discord among gene trees predominate. here  we test a new maximum-likelihood method that incorporates stochastic models of both nucleotide substitution and lineage sorting for species-tree estimation. using a simulation approach  we consider a broad range of species-tree topologies under 2 scenarios representing moderate and severe incomplete lineage sorting. we show that the maximum-likelihood method results in more accurate species trees than a summary-statistic based approach  demonstrating that information contained in discordant gene trees can be effectively extracted using a full probabilistic model. moreover  we demonstrate that the shape of the original species tree (i.e.  the relative lengths of internal branches) has a significant impact on whether the species tree is estimated accurately. in the speciation histories explored here  it is not just the recent origin of species that affects the accuracy of the estimates but the variance in relative species divergence times as well. additionally  we show that sampling effort (number of individuals and/or loci) and sampling design (ratio of individuals to loci) are both important factors affecting the accuracy of species-tree estimates  which is again affected by the relative timing of divergence among species. the inherent difficulties of estimating relationships when species have undergone a recent radiation are discussed  and in particular  the limitations with maximum-likelihood estimates of species trees that do not consider uncertainty in the estimated gene trees of individual loci. thus  despite substantial improvements over current summary-statistic based approaches  and the increased sophistication of procedures that incorporate the process of gene lineage coalescence  recent radiations still appear to pose daunting challenges for phylogenetics.
1148,extensive translation of circular rnas driven by n6-methyladenosine,extensive pre-mrna back-splicing generates numerous circular rnas (circrnas) in human transcriptome. however  the biological functions of these circrnas remain largely unclear. here we report that n6-methyladenosine (m6a)  the most abundant base modification of rna  promotes efficient initiation of protein translation from circrnas in human cells. we discover that consensus m6a motifs are enriched in circrnas and a single m6a site is sufficient to drive translation initiation. this m6a-driven translation requires initiation factor eif4g2 and m6a reader ythdf3  and is enhanced by methyltransferase mettl3/14  inhibited by demethylase fto  and upregulated upon heat shock. further analyses through polysome profiling  computational prediction and mass spectrometry reveal that m6a-driven translation of circrnas is widespread  with hundreds of endogenous circrnas having translation potential. our study expands the coding landscape of human transcriptome  and suggests a role of circrna-derived proteins in cellular responses to environmental stress.
1150,cancer cell membrane-coated nanoparticles for anticancer vaccination and drug delivery,cell-derived nanoparticles have been garnering increased attention due to their ability to mimic many of the natural properties displayed by their source cells. this top-down engineering approach can be applied toward the development of novel therapeutic strategies owing to the unique interactions enabled through the retention of complex antigenic information. herein  we report on the biological functionalization of polymeric nanoparticles with a layer of membrane coating derived from cancer cells. the resulting core-shell nanostructures  which carry the full array of cancer cell membrane antigens  offer a robust platform with applicability toward multiple modes of anticancer therapy. we demonstrate that by coupling the particles with an immunological adjuvant  the resulting formulation can be used to promote a tumor-specific immune response for use in vaccine applications. moreover  we show that by taking advantage of the inherent homotypic binding phenomenon frequently observed among tumor cells the membrane functionalization allows for a unique cancer targeting strategy that can be utilized for drug delivery applications.
1152,laboratory prediction of the requirement for renal replacement in acute falciparum malaria,background acute renal failure is a common complication of severe malaria in adults  and without renal replacement therapy (rrt)  it carries a poor prognosis. even when rrt is available  delaying its initiation may increase mortality. earlier identification of patients who will need rrt may improve outcomes. method prospectively collected data from two intervention studies in adults with severe malaria were analysed focusing on laboratory features on presentation and their association with a later requirement for rrt. in particular  laboratory indices of acute tubular necrosis (atn) and acute kidney injury (aki) that are used in other settings were examined. results data from 163 patients were available for analysis. whether or not the patients should have received rrt (a retrospective assessment determined by three independent reviewers) was used as the reference. forty-three (26.4%) patients met criteria for dialysis  but only 19 (44.2%) were able to receive this intervention due to the limited availability of rrt. patients with impaired renal function on admission (creatinine clearance < 60 ml/min) (n = 84) had their laboratory indices of atn/aki analysed. the plasma creatinine level had the greatest area under the roc curve (auc): 0.83 (95% confidence interval 0.74-0.92)  significantly better than the aucs for  urinary sodium level  the urea to creatinine ratio (ucr)  the fractional excretion of urea (feun) and the urinary neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalcin (ngal) level. the auc for plasma creatinine was also greater than the auc for blood urea nitrogen level  the fractional excretion of sodium (fena)  the renal failure index (rfi)  the urinary osmolality  the urine to plasma creatinine ratio (upcr) and the creatinine clearance  although the difference for these variables did not reach statistical significance. conclusions in adult patients with severe malaria and impaired renal function on admission  none of the evaluated laboratory indices was superior to the plasma creatinine level when used to predict a later requirement for renal replacement therapy.
1154,emerging functional cross-talk between the keap1-nrf2 system and mitochondria,nuclear factor erythroid-derived 2-related factor 2 (nrf2) was originally identified as a positive regulator of drug detoxifying enzyme gene expression during exposure to environmental electrophiles. currently  nrf2 is known to regulate the expression of hundreds of cytoprotective genes to counteract endogenously or exogenously generated oxidative stress. furthermore  when activated in human tumors by somatic mutations  nrf2 confers growth advantages and chemoresistance by regulating genes involved in various processes such as the pentose phosphate pathway and nucleotide synthesis in addition to antioxidant proteins. interestingly  increasing evidence shows that nrf2 is associated with mitochondrial biogenesis during environmental stresses in certain tissues such as the heart. furthermore  skn-1  a functional homolog of nrf2 in c. elegans  is activated by mitochondrial reactive oxygen species and extends life span by promoting mitochondrial homeostasis (i.e.  mitohormesis). similarly  nrf2 activation was recently observed in the heart of surfeit locus protein 1 (surf1) -/- mice in which cellular respiration was decreased due to cytochrome c oxidase defects. in this review  we critically examine the relationship between nrf2 and mitochondria and argue that the nrf2 stress pathway intimately communicates with mitochondria to maintain cellular homeostasis during oxidative stress.
1156,the ubiquitin ligase drosophila mind bomb promotes notch signaling by regulating the localization and activity of serrate and delta.,the receptor notch and its ligands of the delta/serrate/lag2 (dsl) family are the central components in the notch pathway  a fundamental cell signaling system that regulates pattern formation during animal development. delta is directly ubiquitinated by drosophila and xenopus neuralized  and by zebrafish mind bomb  two unrelated ring-type e3 ubiquitin ligases with common abilities to promote delta endocytosis and signaling activity. although orthologs of both neuralized and mind bomb are found in most metazoan organisms  their relative contributions to notch signaling in any single organism have not yet been assessed. we show here that a drosophila ortholog of mind bomb (d-mib) is a positive component of notch signaling that is required for multiple neuralized-independent  notch-dependent developmental processes. furthermore  we show that d-mib associates physically and functionally with both serrate and delta. we find that d-mib uses its ubiquitin ligase activity to promote dsl ligand activity  an activity that is correlated with its ability to induce the endocytosis and degradation of both delta and serrate (see also le borgne et al.  2005). we further demonstrate that d-mib can functionally replace neuralized in multiple cell fate decisions that absolutely require endogenous neuralized  a testament to the highly similar activities of these two unrelated ubiquitin ligases in regulating notch signaling. we conclude that ubiquitination of delta and serrate by neuralized and d-mib is an obligate feature of dsl ligand activation throughout drosophila development.
1158,mechanisms of life span extension by rapamycin in the fruit fly drosophila melanogaster,the target of rapamycin (tor) pathway is a major nutrient-sensing pathway that  when genetically downregulated  increases life span in evolutionarily diverse organisms including mammals. the central component of this pathway  tor kinase  is the target of the inhibitory drug rapamycin  a highly specific and well-described drug approved for human use. we show here that feeding rapamycin to adult drosophila produces the life span extension seen in some tor mutants. increase in life span by rapamycin was associated with increased resistance to both starvation and paraquat. analysis of the underlying mechanisms revealed that rapamycin increased longevity specifically through the torc1 branch of the tor pathway  through alterations to both autophagy and translation. rapamycin could increase life span of weak insulin/igf signaling (iis) pathway mutants and of flies with life span maximized by dietary restriction  indicating additional mechanisms.
1160,mir-302 is required for timing of neural differentiation  neural tube closure  and embryonic viability,the evolutionarily conserved mir-302 family of micrornas is expressed during early mammalian embryonic development. here  we report that deletion of mir-302a-d in mice results in a fully penetrant late embryonic lethal phenotype. knockout embryos have an anterior neural tube closure defect associated with a thickened neuroepithelium. the neuroepithelium shows increased progenitor proliferation  decreased cell death  and precocious neuronal differentiation. mrna profiling at multiple time points during neurulation uncovers a complex pattern of changing targets over time. overexpression of one of these targets  fgf15  in the neuroepithelium of the chick embryo induces precocious neuronal differentiation. compound mutants between mir-302 and the related mir-290 locus have a synthetic lethal phenotype prior to neurulation. our results show that mir-302 helps regulate neurulation by suppressing neural progenitor expansion and precocious differentiation. furthermore  these results uncover redundant roles for mir-290 and mir-302 early in development.
1162,loss  trauma  and human resilience: have we underestimated the human capacity to thrive after extremely aversive events?,many people are exposed to loss or potentially traumatic events at some point in their lives  and yet they continue to have positive emotional experiences and show only minor and transient disruptions in their ability to function. unfortunately  because much of psychology's knowledge about how adults cope with loss or trauma has come from individuals who sought treatment or exhibited great distress  loss and trauma theorists have often viewed this type of resilience as either rare or pathological. the author challenges these assumptions by reviewing evidence that resilience represents a distinct trajectory from the process of recovery  that resilience in the face of loss or potential trauma is more common than is often believed  and that there are multiple and sometimes unexpected pathways to resilience.
1164,reproductive period and risk of dementia in postmenopausal women.,context exogenous estrogen use may lower risk of dementia in postmenopausal women. a relationship between long-term exposure to endogenous estrogens and incident dementia has been hypothesized but not studied. objective to determine whether a longer reproductive period  as an indicator of longer exposure to endogenous estrogens  is associated with lower risk of dementia and alzheimer disease (ad) in women who have natural menopause. design and setting the rotterdam study  a population-based prospective cohort study conducted in the netherlands. participants a total of 3601 women aged 55 years or older who did not have dementia at baseline (1990-1993) and had information on age at menarche  age at menopause  and type of menopause. participants were reexamined in 1993-1994 and 1997-1999 and were continuously monitored for development of dementia. main outcome measures incidence of dementia  based on diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders  revised third edition criteria  and ad  based on national institute of neurological disorders and stroke/alzheimer's disease and related disorders association criteria  compared by quartiles of reproductive period among women with natural menopause. results during 21 046 person-years of follow-up (median follow-up  6.3 years)  199 women developed dementia  including 159 who developed ad. after adjusting for age  dementia was not clearly associated with length of reproductive period. however  after adjusting for multiple covariates  women with natural menopause and more reproductive years had an increased risk of dementia (adjusted rate ratio [rr] for women with >39 reproductive years [highest quartile] compared with <34 reproductive years [lowest quartile]  1.78; 95% confidence interval [ci]  1.12-2.84). the adjusted rr per year of increase was 1.04 (95% ci  1.01-1.08). for risk of ad  the adjusted rrs were 1.51 (95% ci  0.91-2.50) and 1.03 (95% ci  1.00-1.07)  respectively. risk of dementia associated with a longer reproductive period was most pronounced in apoe epsilon4 carriers (adjusted rr for >39 reproductive years compared with <34 reproductive years  4.20 [95% ci  1.97-8.92] for dementia and 3.42 [95% ci  1.51-7.75] for ad)  whereas in noncarriers  no clear association with dementia or ad was observed. conclusion our findings do not support the hypothesis that a longer reproductive period reduces risk of dementia in women who have natural menopause.
1166,klf1-null neonates display hydrops fetalis and a deranged erythroid transcriptome.,we describe a case of severe neonatal anemia with kernicterus caused by compound heterozygosity for null mutations in klf1  each inherited from asymptomatic parents. one of the mutations is novel. this is the first described case of a klf1-null human. the phenotype of severe nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia  jaundice  hepatosplenomegaly  and marked erythroblastosis is more severe than that present in congenital dyserythropoietic anemia type iv as a result of dominant mutations in the second zinc-finger of klf1. there was a very high level of hbf expression into childhood (>70%)  consistent with a key role for klf1 in human hemoglobin switching. we performed rna-seq on circulating erythroblasts and found that human klf1 acts like mouse klf1 to coordinate expression of many genes required to build a red cell including those encoding globins  cytoskeletal components  ahsp  heme synthesis enzymes  cell-cycle regulators  and blood group antigens. we identify novel klf1 target genes including kif23 and kif11 which are required for proper cytokinesis. we also identify new roles for klf1 in autophagy  global transcriptional control  and rna splicing. we suggest loss of klf1 should be considered in otherwise unexplained cases of severe neonatal nsha or hydrops fetalis.
1168,neurocognitive development in children experiencing intrauterine growth retardation and born small for gestational age: pathological  constitutional and therapeutic pathways,interest in the neurocognitive and psychosocial outcomes in children who are born small for gestational age (sga) has increased since the recent approval of growth hormone (gh) therapy in this indication. the objective of gh treatment in sga children is to provide a symptomatic treatment for growth retardation. from a patient perspective  the ultimate goals of gh therapy are the reduction in the present or future risk of neurocognitive  psychological  social or occupational impairment  not the accompanying improvements in growth velocity and final height per se. therefore  from a scientific perspective  neurocognitive and psychosocial endpoints become relevant domains of assessment to determine the final treatment benefit experienced by the patient born sga. this article reviews recent available studies on developmental risks in sga  and then transforms the empirical findings into an integrated conceptual framework on the sources and mediators of neurocognitive and psychosocial outcomes in intrauterine growth retardation and sga. this framework depicts two distinct therapeutic pathways by which gh therapy may improve neurocognitive and behavioural outcomes. the first (‘traditional’) pathway is the prevention of exposure to short-stature-related stressors via an improvement in growth velocity and final height. the second pathway refers to potential metabolic  and thus neurotropic and psychotropic  effects of gh binding at receptors in the central nervous system  thus changing neuronal activity. to date  the existence and potential mechanisms of such physiologically and not psychologically mediated effects of gh on neurocognitive functioning in sga patients remain hypothetical.
1170,vegan proteins may reduce risk of cancer  obesity  and cardiovascular disease by promoting increased glucagon activity.,amino acids modulate the secretion of both insulin and glucagon; the composition of dietary protein therefore has the potential to influence the balance of glucagon and insulin activity. soy protein  as well as many other vegan proteins  are higher in non-essential amino acids than most animal-derived food proteins  and as a result should preferentially favor glucagon production. acting on hepatocytes  glucagon promotes (and insulin inhibits) camp-dependent mechanisms that down-regulate lipogenic enzymes and cholesterol synthesis  while up-regulating hepatic ldl receptors and production of the igf-i antagonist igfbp-1. the insulin-sensitizing properties of many vegan diets--high in fiber  low in saturated fat--should amplify these effects by down-regulating insulin secretion. additionally  the relatively low essential amino acid content of some vegan diets may decrease hepatic igf-i synthesis. thus  diets featuring vegan proteins can be expected to lower elevated serum lipid levels  promote weight loss  and decrease circulating igf-i activity. the latter effect should impede cancer induction (as is seen in animal studies with soy protein)  lessen neutrophil-mediated inflammatory damage  and slow growth and maturation in children. in fact  vegans tend to have low serum lipids  lean physiques  shorter stature  later puberty  and decreased risk for certain prominent 'western' cancers; a vegan diet has documented clinical efficacy in rheumatoid arthritis. low-fat vegan diets may be especially protective in regard to cancers linked to insulin resistance--namely  breast and colon cancer--as well as prostate cancer; conversely  the high igf-i activity associated with heavy ingestion of animal products may be largely responsible for the epidemic of 'western' cancers in wealthy societies. increased phytochemical intake is also likely to contribute to the reduction of cancer risk in vegans. regression of coronary stenoses has been documented during low-fat vegan diets coupled with exercise training; such regimens also tend to markedly improve diabetic control and lower elevated blood pressure. risk of many other degenerative disorders may be decreased in vegans  although reduced growth factor activity may be responsible for an increased risk of hemorrhagic stroke. by altering the glucagon/insulin balance  it is conceivable that supplemental intakes of key non-essential amino acids could enable omnivores to enjoy some of the health advantages of a vegan diet. an unnecessarily high intake of essential amino acids--either in the absolute sense or relative to total dietary protein--may prove to be as grave a risk factor for 'western' degenerative diseases as is excessive fat intake.
1172,history of chronic comorbidity and risk of chemotherapy-induced febrile neutropenia in cancer patients not receiving g-csf prophylaxis.,background chemotherapy-induced febrile neutropenia (fn) is a clinically important complication that affects patient outcome by delaying chemotherapy doses or reducing dose intensity. risk of fn depends on chemotherapy- and patient-level factors. we sought to determine the effects of chronic comorbidities on risk of fn. design we conducted a cohort study to examine the association between a variety of chronic comorbidities and risk of fn in patients diagnosed with six types of cancer (non-hodgkin lymphoma and breast  colorectal  lung  ovary  and gastric cancer) from 2000 to 2009 who were treated with chemotherapy at kaiser permanente southern california  a large managed care organization. we excluded those patients who received primary prophylactic granulocyte colony-stimulating factor. history of comorbidities and fn events were identified using electronic medical records. cox models adjusting for propensity score  stratified by cancer type  were used to determine the association between comorbid conditions and fn. models that additionally adjusted for cancer stage  baseline neutrophil count  chemotherapy regimen  and dose reduction were also evaluated. results a total of 19 160 patients with mean age of 60 years were included; 963 (5.0%) developed fn in the first chemotherapy cycle. chronic obstructive pulmonary disease [hazard ratio (hr) = 1.30 (1.07-1.57)]  congestive heart failure [hr = 1.43 (1.00-1.98)]  hiv infection [hr = 3.40 (1.90-5.63)]  autoimmune disease [hr = 2.01 (1.10-3.33)]  peptic ulcer disease [hr = 1.57 (1.05-2.26)]  renal disease [hr = 1.60 (1.21-2.09)]  and thyroid disorder [hr = 1.32 (1.06-1.64)] were all associated with a significantly increased fn risk. conclusions these results provide evidence that history of several chronic comorbidities increases risk of fn  which should be considered when managing patients during chemotherapy.
1174,loss of sex discrimination and male-male aggression in mice deficient for trp2.,the mouse vomeronasal organ (vno) is thought to mediate social behaviors and neuroendocrine changes elicited by pheromonal cues. the molecular mechanisms underlying the sensory response to pheromones and the behavioral repertoire induced through the vno are not fully characterized. using the tools of mouse genetics and multielectrode recording  we demonstrate that the sensory activation of vno neurons requires trp2  a putative ion channel of the transient receptor potential family that is expressed exclusively in these neurons. moreover  we show that male mice deficient in trp2 expression fail to display male-male aggression  and they initiate sexual and courtship behaviors toward both males and females. our study suggests that  in the mouse  sensory activation of the vno is essential for sex discrimination of conspecifics and thus ensures gender-specific behavior.
1176,chemosensitization of acute myeloid leukemia (aml) following mobilization by the cxcr4 antagonist amd3100.,the cxcr4-sdf-1 axis plays a central role in the trafficking and retention of normal and malignant stem cells in the bone marrow (bm) microenvironment. here  we used a mouse model of acute promyelocytic leukemia (apl) and a small molecule competitive antagonist of cxcr4  amd3100  to examine the interaction of mouse apl cells with the bm microenvironment. apl cells from a murine cathepsin g-pml-raralpha knockin mouse were genetically modified with firefly luciferase (apl(luc)) to allow tracking by bioluminescence imaging. coculture of apl(luc) cells with m2-10b4 stromal cells protected the leukemia cells from chemotherapy-induced apoptosis in vitro. upon injection into syngeneic recipients  apl(luc) cells rapidly migrated to the bm followed by egress to the spleen then to the peripheral blood with death due to leukostasis by day 15. administration of amd3100 to leukemic mice induced a 1.6-fold increase in total leukocytes and a 9-fold increase of circulating apl blast counts  which peak at 3 hours and return to baseline by 12 hours. treatment of leukemic mice with chemotherapy plus amd3100 resulted in decreased tumor burden and improved overall survival compared with mice treated with chemotherapy alone. these studies provide a proof-of-principle for directing therapy to the critical tethers that promote aml-niche interactions.
1178,iq and non-clinical psychotic symptoms in 12-year-olds: results  from the alspac birth cohort,background non-clinical psychotic symptoms appear common in children  but it is possible that a proportion of reported symptoms result from misinterpretation. there is a well-established association between pre-morbid low iq score and schizophrenia. psychosis-like symptoms in children may also be a risk factor for psychotic disorder but their relationship with iq is unclear. aims to investigate the prevalence  nature and frequency of psychosis-like symptoms in 12-year-old children and study their relationship with iq. method longitudinal study using the avon longitudinal study of parents and children (alspac) birth cohort. a total of 6455 children completed screening questions for 12 psychotic symptoms followed by a semi-structured clinical assessment. iq was assessed at 8 years of age using the wechsler intelligence scale for children (3rd uk edition). results the 6-month period prevalence for one or more symptoms was 13.7% (95% ci 12.8-14.5). after adjustment for confounding variables  there was a non-linear association between iq score and psychosis-like symptoms  such that only those with below average iq score had an increased risk of reporting such symptoms. conclusions non-clinical psychotic symptoms occur in a significant proportion of 12-year-olds. symptoms are associated with low iq and also less strongly with a high iq score. the pattern of association with iq differs from that observed in schizophrenia.
1180,transposable elements have rewired the core regulatory network of human embryonic stem cells,detection of new genomic control elements is critical in understanding transcriptional regulatory networks in their entirety. we studied the genome-wide binding locations of three key regulatory proteins (pou5f1  also known as oct4; nanog; and ctcf) in human and mouse embryonic stem cells. in contrast to ctcf  we found that the binding profiles of oct4 and nanog are markedly different  with only ∼5% of the regions being homologously occupied. we show that transposable elements contributed up to 25% of the bound sites in humans and mice and have wired new genes into the core regulatory network of embryonic stem cells. these data indicate that species-specific transposable elements have substantially altered the transcriptional circuitry of pluripotent stem cells.
1182,coxibs and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs in animal models of cancer chemoprevention.,coxibs  including celecoxib  and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaid)  including aspirin  are among the most promising cancer chemopreventive agents in development today. this article examines the data on the efficacy of these agents in animal model studies of cancer prevention carried out by the authors. the studies evaluated here are restricted to our rodent models of colon/intestinal  bladder  and nonmelanoma skin cancer  in which celecoxib and other nsaids were administered as either cancer preventive or therapeutic agents. these studies may shed light on several questions. is celecoxib unique compared with other nsaids  and if so  what implications would this have for human use? are standard nsaids (which inhibit both cox-1 and cox-2) as effective as celecoxib in animal studies? is the efficacy of celecoxib in particular or nsaids in general due to their off-target effects or to their effects on cox-1 and cox-2? what is the likely efficacy of low-dose aspirin? some questions raised by human trials and epidemiology are discussed and related to our observations in animal model studies. we also discuss the problem of cardiovascular (cv) events associated with coxibs and certain other nsaids and whether results in animal models are predictive of efficacy in humans. on the basis of epidemiologic studies and its cv profile  aspirin seems to be the most promising nsaid for preventing human colorectal  bladder  and skin cancer  although the animal data for aspirin are less clear. a comprehensive understanding of the results of coxibs and other nsaids in animal studies may help inform and shape human trials of these commonly employed  relatively inexpensive  and highly effective compounds.
1184,neutrophilic infiltration within the airway smooth muscle in patients with copd.,background copd is an inflammatory disorder characterised by chronic airflow limitation  but the extent to which airway inflammation is related to functional abnormalities is still uncertain. the interaction between inflammatory cells and airway smooth muscle may have a crucial role. methods to investigate the microlocalisation of inflammatory cells within the airway smooth muscle in copd  surgical specimens obtained from 26 subjects undergoing thoracotomy (eight smokers with copd  10 smokers with normal lung function  and eight non-smoking controls) were examined. immunohistochemical analysis was used to quantify the number of neutrophils  macrophages  mast cells  cd4+ and cd8+ cells localised within the smooth muscle of peripheral airways. results smokers with copd had an increased number of neutrophils and cd8+ cells in the airway smooth muscle compared with non-smokers. smokers with normal lung function also had a neutrophilic infiltration in the airway smooth muscle  but to a lesser extent. when all the subjects were analysed as one group  neutrophilic infiltration was inversely related to forced expiratory volume in 1 second (% predicted). conclusions microlocalisation of neutrophils and cd8+ cells in the airway smooth muscle in smokers with copd suggests a possible role for these cells in the pathogenesis of smoking induced airflow limitation.
1186,activating mutations in the nt5c2 nucleotidase gene drive chemotherapy resistance in relapsed all,acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) is an aggressive hematological tumor resulting from the malignant transformation of lymphoid progenitors. despite intensive chemotherapy  20% of pediatric patients and over 50% of adult patients with all do not achieve a complete remission or relapse after intensified chemotherapy  making disease relapse and resistance to therapy the most substantial challenge in the treatment of this disease. using whole-exome sequencing  we identify mutations in the cytosolic 5'-nucleotidase ii gene (nt5c2)  which encodes a 5'-nucleotidase enzyme that is responsible for the inactivation of nucleoside-analog chemotherapy drugs  in 20/103 (19%) relapse t cell alls and 1/35 (3%) relapse b-precursor alls. nt5c2 mutant proteins show increased nucleotidase activity in vitro and conferred resistance to chemotherapy with 6-mercaptopurine and 6-thioguanine when expressed in all lymphoblasts. these results support a prominent role for activating mutations in nt5c2 and increased nucleoside-analog metabolism in disease progression and chemotherapy resistance in all.
1188,a novel molecular mechanism of dual resistance to nucleoside and nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors.,recently  mutations in the connection subdomain (cn) and rnase h domain of hiv-1 reverse transcriptase (rt) were observed to exhibit dual resistance to nucleoside and nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (nrtis and nnrtis). to elucidate the mechanism by which cn and rh mutations confer resistance to nnrtis  we hypothesized that these mutations reduce rnase h cleavage and provide more time for the nnrti to dissociate from the rt  resulting in the resumption of dna synthesis and enhanced nnrti resistance. we observed that the effect of the reduction in rnase h cleavage on nnrti resistance is dependent upon the affinity of each nnrti to the rt and further influenced by the presence of nnrti-binding pocket (bp) mutants. d549n  q475a  and y501a mutants  which reduce rnase h cleavage  enhance resistance to nevirapine (nvp) and delavirdine (dlv)  but not to efavirenz (efv) and etravirine (etr)  consistent with their increase in affinity for rt. combining the d549n mutant with nnrti bp mutants further increases nnrti resistance from 3- to 30-fold  supporting the role of nnrti-rt affinity in our nnrti resistance model. we also demonstrated that cns from treatment-experienced patients  previously reported to enhance nrti resistance  also reduce rnase h cleavage and enhance nnrti resistance in the context of the patient rt pol domain or a wild-type pol domain. together  these results confirm key predictions of our nnrti resistance model and provide support for a unifying mechanism by which cn and rh mutations can exhibit dual nrti and nnrti resistance.
1190,mll1 inhibition reprograms epiblast stem cells to naive pluripotency.,the interconversion between naive and primed pluripotent states is accompanied by drastic epigenetic rearrangements. however  it is unclear whether intrinsic epigenetic events can drive reprogramming to naive pluripotency or if distinct chromatin states are instead simply a reflection of discrete pluripotent states. here  we show that blocking histone h3k4 methyltransferase mll1 activity with the small-molecule inhibitor mm-401 reprograms mouse epiblast stem cells (episcs) to naive pluripotency. this reversion is highly efficient and synchronized  with more than 50% of treated episcs exhibiting features of naive embryonic stem cells (escs) within 3 days. reverted escs reactivate the silenced x chromosome and contribute to embryos following blastocyst injection  generating germline-competent chimeras. importantly  blocking mll1 leads to global redistribution of h3k4me1 at enhancers and represses lineage determinant factors and episc markers  which indirectly regulate esc transcription circuitry. these findings show that discrete perturbation of h3k4 methylation is sufficient to drive reprogramming to naive pluripotency.
1192,macropinocytosis: an endocytic pathway for internalising large gulps.,macropinocytosis is a regulated form of endocytosis that mediates the non-selective uptake of solute molecules  nutrients and antigens. it is an actin-dependent process initiated from surface membrane ruffles that give rise to large endocytic vacuoles called macropinosomes. macropinocytosis is important in a range of physiological processes; it is highly active in macrophages and dendritic cells where it is a major pathway for the capture of antigens  it is relevant to cell migration and tumour metastasis and it represents a portal of cell entry exploited by a range of pathogens. the molecular basis for the formation and maturation of macropinosomes has only recently begun to be defined. here  we review the general characteristics of macropinocytosis  describe some of the regulators of this pathway  which have been identified to date and highlight strategies to explore the relevance of this endocytosis pathway in vivo.
1194,increased cdk1 activity determines the timing of kinetochore-microtubule attachments in meiosis i,chromosome segregation during cell division depends on stable attachment of kinetochores to spindle microtubules. mitotic spindle formation and kinetochore-microtubule (k-mt) capture typically occur within minutes of nuclear envelope breakdown. in contrast  during meiosis i in mouse oocytes  formation of the acentrosomal bipolar spindle takes 3-4 h  and stabilization of k-mt attachments is delayed an additional 3-4 h. the mechanism responsible for this delay  which likely prevents stabilization of erroneous attachments during spindle formation  is unknown. here we show that during meiosis i  attachments are regulated by cdk1 activity  which gradually increases through prometaphase and metaphase i. partial reduction of cdk1 activity delayed formation of stable attachments  whereas a premature increase in cdk1 activity led to precocious formation of stable attachments and eventually lagging chromosomes at anaphase i. these results indicate that the slow increase in cdk1 activity in meiosis i acts as a timing mechanism to allow stable k-mt attachments only after bipolar spindle formation  thus preventing attachment errors.
1196,efficient generation of fully reprogrammed human ips cells via polycistronic retroviral vector and a new cocktail of chemical compounds,direct reprogramming of human somatic cells into induced pluripotent stem (ips) cells by defined transcription factors (tfs) provides great potential for regenerative medicine and biomedical research. this procedure has many challenges  including low reprogramming efficiency  many partially reprogrammed colonies  somatic coding mutations in the genome  etc. here  we describe a simple approach for generating fully reprogrammed human ips cells by using a single polycistronic retroviral vector expressing four human tfs in a single open reading frame (orf)  combined with a cocktail containing three small molecules (sodium butyrate  sb431542  and pd0325901). our results demonstrate that human ips cells generated by this approach express human es cells markers and exhibit pluripotency demonstrated by their abilities to differentiate into the three germ layers in vitro and in vivo. notably  this approach not only provides a much faster reprogramming process but also significantly diminishes partially reprogrammed ips cell colonies  thus facilitating efficient isolation of desired fully reprogrammed ips cell colonies.
1198,successful '9-month bangladesh regimen' for multidrug-resistant tuberculosis among over 500 consecutive patients.,setting tuberculosis (tb) program  damien foundation projects  bangladesh. objective to summarize the outcome and its determinants of the first treatment for multidrug-resistant tb using a standardized regimen consisting of a minimum 9 months. design this was a prospective  observational study of a gatifloxacin (gfx) based directly observed regimen  mainly with initial hospitalization. the 4-month intensive phase was extended until sputum smear conversion. patients were monitored using culture for up to 2 years after treatment completion. results of the 515 patients who met the study inclusion criteria and were successively enrolled from 2005 to 2011  84.4% had a bacteriologically favorable outcome. due to extensive disease with delayed sputum conversion  only half of the patients completed treatment within 9 months; however  95% were able to complete treatment within 12 months. eleven patients failed or relapsed  and 93.1% of the 435 patients who were successfully treated completed at least 12 months post-treatment follow-up. the strongest risk factor for a bacteriologically unfavorable outcome was high-level fluoroquinolone (fq) resistance  particularly when compounded by initial pyrazinamide (pza) resistance. low-level fq resistance had no unfavorable effect on treatment outcome. amplification of drug resistance occurred only once  in a patient strain that was initially only susceptible to kanamycin and clofazimine. conclusion the excellent outcome of the bangladesh regimen was largely maintained. bacteriological treatment failures and relapses were rare  except among patients with high-level gfx resistance  notably in the presence of pza resistance.
1200,the myeloid transcription factor klf2 regulates the host response to polymicrobial infection and endotoxic shock.,precise control of myeloid cell activation is required for optimal host defense. however  this activation process must be under exquisite control to prevent uncontrolled inflammation. herein  we identify the kruppel-like transcription factor 2 (klf2) as a potent regulator of myeloid cell activation in vivo. exposure of myeloid cells to hypoxia and/or bacterial products reduced klf2 expression while inducing hypoxia inducible factor-1α (hif-1α)  findings that were recapitulated in human septic patients. myeloid klf2 was found to be a potent inhibitor of nuclear factor-kappab (nf-κb)-dependent hif-1α transcription and  consequently  a critical determinant of outcome in models of polymicrobial infection and endotoxemia. collectively  these observations identify klf2 as a tonic repressor of myeloid cell activation in vivo and an essential regulator of the innate immune system.
1202,malaria biology and disease pathogenesis: insights for new treatments,plasmodium falciparum malaria  an infectious disease caused by a parasitic protozoan  claims the lives of nearly a million children each year in africa alone and is a top public health concern. evidence is accumulating that resistance to artemisinin derivatives  the frontline therapy for the asexual blood stage of the infection  is developing in southeast asia. renewed initiatives to eliminate malaria will benefit from an expanded repertoire of antimalarials  including new drugs that kill circulating p. falciparum gametocytes  thereby preventing transmission. our current understanding of the biology of asexual blood-stage parasites and gametocytes and the ability to culture them in vitro lends optimism that high-throughput screenings of large chemical libraries will produce a new generation of antimalarial drugs. there is also a need for new therapies to reduce the high mortality of severe malaria. an understanding of the pathophysiology of severe disease may identify rational targets for drugs that improve survival.
1204,radiation-related cancer risks at low doses among atomic bomb survivors,abstract pierce  d. a. and preston  d. l. radiation-related cancer risks at low doses among atomic bomb survivors. to clarify the information in the radiation effects research foundation data regarding cancer risks of low radiation doses  we focus on survivors with doses less than 0.5 sv. for reasons indicated  we also restrict attention mainly to survivors within 3 000 m of the hypocenter of the bombs. analysis is of solid cancer incidence from 1958–1994  involving 7 000 cancer cases among 50 000 survivors in that dose and distance range. the results provide useful risk estimates for doses as low as 0.05–0.1 sv  which are not overestimated by linear risk estimates computed from the wider dose ranges 0–2 sv or 0–4 sv. there is a statistically significant risk in the range 0–0.1 sv  and an upper confidence limit on any possible threshold is computed as 0.06 sv. it is indicated that modification of the neutron dose estimates currently under consideration would not markedly change the conclusions.
1206,molecular characterization of long-term survivors of glioblastoma using genome- and transcriptome-wide profiling.,the prognosis of glioblastoma  the most malignant type of glioma  is still poor  with only a minority of patients showing long-term survival of more than three years after diagnosis. to elucidate the molecular aberrations in glioblastomas of long-term survivors  we performed genome- and/or transcriptome-wide molecular profiling of glioblastoma samples from 94 patients  including 28 long-term survivors with >36 months overall survival (os)  20 short-term survivors with <12 months os and 46 patients with intermediate os. integrative bioinformatic analyses were used to characterize molecular aberrations in the distinct survival groups considering established molecular markers such as isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 or 2 (idh1/2) mutations  and o(6) -methylguanine dna methyltransferase (mgmt) promoter methylation. patients with long-term survival were younger and more often had idh1/2-mutant and mgmt-methylated tumors. gene expression profiling revealed over-representation of a distinct (proneural-like) expression signature in long-term survivors that was linked to idh1/2 mutation. however  idh1/2-wildtype glioblastomas from long-term survivors did not show distinct gene expression profiles and included proneural  classical and mesenchymal glioblastoma subtypes. genomic imbalances also differed between idh1/2-mutant and idh1/2-wildtype tumors  but not between survival groups of idh1/2-wildtype patients. thus  our data support an important role for mgmt promoter methylation and idh1/2 mutation in glioblastoma long-term survival and corroborate the association of idh1/2 mutation with distinct genomic and transcriptional profiles. importantly  however  idh1/2-wildtype glioblastomas in our cohort of long-term survivors lacked distinctive dna copy number changes and gene expression signatures  indicating that other factors might have been responsible for long survival in this particular subgroup of patients.
1208,an integrated database of genes responsive to the myc oncogenic transcription factor: identification of direct genomic targets,we report a database of genes responsive to the myc oncogenic transcription factor. the database myc target gene prioritizes candidate target genes according to experimental evidence and clusters responsive genes into functional groups. we coupled the prioritization of target genes with phylogenetic sequence comparisons to predict c-myc target binding sites  which are in turn validated by chromatin immunoprecipitation assays. this database is essential for the understanding of the genetic regulatory networks underlying the genesis of cancers.
1210,the ino80 chromatin-remodeling complex restores chromatin structure during uv dna damage repair,chromatin structure is modulated during deoxyribonucleic acid excision repair  but how this is achieved is unclear. loss of the yeast ino80 chromatin-remodeling complex (ino80-c) moderately sensitizes cells to ultraviolet (uv) light. in this paper  we show that ino80 acts in the same genetic pathway as nucleotide excision repair (ner) and that the ino80-c contributes to efficient uv photoproduct removal in a region of high nucleosome occupancy. moreover  ino80 interacts with the early ner damage recognition complex rad4-rad23 and is recruited to chromatin by rad4 in a uv damage-dependent manner. using a modified chromatin immunoprecipitation assay  we find that chromatin disruption during uv lesion repair is normal  whereas the restoration of nucleosome structure is defective in ino80 mutant cells. collectively  our work suggests that ino80 is recruited to sites of uv lesion repair through interactions with the ner apparatus and is required for the restoration of chromatin structure after repair.
1212,a more efficient method to generate integration-free human ips cells,we report a simple method  using p53 suppression and nontransforming l-myc  to generate human induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs) with episomal plasmid vectors. we generated human ipscs from multiple donors  including two putative human leukocyte antigen (hla)-homozygous donors who match ∼20% of the japanese population at major hla loci; most ipscs are integrated transgene-free. this method may provide ipscs suitable for autologous and allologous stem-cell therapy in the future.
1214,a central role for her3 in her2-amplified breast cancer: implications for targeted therapy.,epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) and her3 each form heterodimers with her2 and have independently been implicated as key coreceptors that drive her2-amplified breast cancer. some studies suggest a dominant role for egfr  a notion of renewed interest given the development of dual her2/egfr small-molecule inhibitors. other studies point to her3 as the primary coreceptor. to clarify the relative contributions of egfr and her3 to her2 signaling  we studied receptor knockdown via small interfering rna technology across a panel of six her2-overexpressing cell lines. interestingly  her3 was as critical as her2 for maintaining cell proliferation in most cell lines  whereas egfr was dispensable. induction of her3 knockdown in the her2-overexpressing bt474m1 cell line was found to inhibit growth in three-dimensional culture and induce rapid tumor regression of in vivo xenografts. furthermore  preferential phosphorylation of her3  but not egfr  was observed in her2-amplified breast cancer tissues. given these data suggesting her3 as an important therapeutic target  we examined the activity of pertuzumab  a her2 antibody that inhibits her3 signaling by blocking ligand-induced her2/her3 heterodimerization. pertuzumab inhibited ligand-dependent morphogenesis in three-dimensional culture and induced tumor regression in the heregulin-dependent mda-mb-175 xenograft model. importantly  these activities of pertuzumab were distinct from those of trastuzumab  a monoclonal antibody currently used for treatment of her2-amplified breast cancer patients. our data suggest that inhibition of her3 may be more clinically relevant than inhibition of egfr in her2-amplified breast cancer and also suggest that adding pertuzumab to trastuzumab may augment therapeutic benefit by blocking her2/her3 signaling.
1216,regulation of the latent-lytic switch in epstein-barr virus.,epstein-barr virus (ebv) infection contributes to the development of several different types of human malignancy  including burkitt lymphoma  hodgkin lymphoma  and nasopharyngeal carcinoma. as a herpesvirus  ebv can establish latent or lytic infection in cells. ebv-positive tumors are composed almost exclusively of cells with latent ebv infection. strategies for inducing the lytic form of ebv infection in tumor cells are being investigated as a potential therapy for ebv-positive tumors. in this article  we review how cellular and viral proteins regulate the latent-lytic ebv switch in infected b cells and epithelial cells  and discuss how harnessing lytic viral reactivation might be used therapeutically.
1218,extrasynaptic glutamate spillover in the hippocampus: dependence on temperature and the role of active glutamate uptake,at excitatory synapses on ca1 pyramidal cells of the hippocampus  a larger quantal content is sensed by n-methyl-d-aspartic acid receptors (nmdars) than by alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptors (ampars). a novel explanation for this discrepancy is that glutamate released from terminals presynaptic to one cell can diffuse to and activate nmdars  but not ampars  on a neighboring cell. if this occurs in the living brain  it could invalidate the view that glutamatergic synapses function as private communication channels between neurons. here  we show that the discrepancy in quantal content mediated by the two receptors is greatly decreased at physiological temperature  compared with conventional recording conditions. this effect of temperature is not due to changes in release probability or uncovering of latent ampars. it is  however  partially reversed by the glutamate uptake inhibitor dihydrokainate. the results suggest that glutamate transporters play a critical role in limiting the extrasynaptic diffusion of glutamate  thereby minimizing cross-talk between neighboring excitatory synapses.
1220,characterization of a fgf19 variant with altered receptor specificity revealed a central role for fgfr1c in the regulation of glucose metabolism,diabetes and associated metabolic conditions have reached pandemic proportions worldwide  and there is a clear unmet medical need for new therapies that are both effective and safe. fgf19 and fgf21 are distinctive members of the fgf family that function as endocrine hormones. both have potent effects on normalizing glucose  lipid  and energy homeostasis  and therefore  represent attractive potential next generation therapies for combating the growing epidemics of type 2 diabetes and obesity. the mechanism responsible for these impressive metabolic effects remains unknown. while both fgf19 and fgf21 can activate fgfrs 1c  2c  and 3c in the presence of co-receptor βklotho in vitro  which receptor is responsible for the metabolic activities observed in vivo remains unknown. here we have generated a variant of fgf19  fgf19-7  that has altered receptor specificity with a strong bias toward fgfr1c. we show that fgf19-7 is equally efficacious as wild type fgf19 in regulating glucose  lipid  and energy metabolism in both diet-induced obesity and leptin-deficient mouse models. these results are the first direct demonstration of the central role of the βklotho/fgfr1c receptor complex in glucose and lipid regulation  and also strongly suggest that activation of this receptor complex alone might be sufficient to achieve all the metabolic functions of endocrine fgf molecules.
1222,differential regulation of actin microfilaments by human mical proteins.,the drosophila melanogaster mical protein is essential for the neuronal growth cone machinery that functions through plexin- and semaphorin-mediated axonal signaling. drosophila mical is also involved in regulating myofilament organization and synaptic structures  and serves as an actin disassembly factor downstream of plexin-mediated axonal repulsion. in mammalian cells there are three known isoforms  mical1  mical2 and mical3  as well as the mical-like proteins mical-l1 and mical-l2  but little is known of their function  and information comes almost exclusively from neural cells. in this study we show that in non-neural cells human micals are required for normal actin organization  and all three micals regulate actin stress fibers. moreover  we provide evidence that the generation of reactive oxygen species by mical proteins is crucial for their actin-regulatory function. however  although mical1 is auto-inhibited by its c-terminal coiled-coil region  mical2 remains constitutively active and affects stress fibers. these data suggest differential but complementary roles for mical1 and mical2 in actin microfilament regulation.
1224,identification and characterization of a common set of complex i assembly intermediates in mitochondria from patients with complex i deficiency.,deficiencies in the activity of complex i (nadh: ubiquinone oxidoreductase) are an important cause of human mitochondrial disease. complex i is composed of at least 46 structural subunits that are encoded in both nuclear and mitochondrial dna. enzyme deficiency can result from either impaired catalytic efficiency or an inability to assemble the holoenzyme complex; however  the assembly process remains poorly understood. we have used two-dimensional blue-native/sds gel electrophoresis and a panel of 11 antibodies directed against structural subunits of the enzyme to investigate complex i assembly in the muscle mitochondria from four patients with complex i deficiency caused by either mitochondrial or nuclear gene defects. immunoblot analyses of second dimension denaturing gels identified seven distinct complex i subcomplexes in the patients studied  five of which could also be detected in nondenaturing gels in the first dimension. although the abundance of these intermediates varied among the different patients  a common constellation of subcomplexes was observed in all cases. a similar profile of subcomplexes was present in a human/mouse hybrid fibroblast cell line with a severe complex i deficiency due to an almost complete lack of assembly of the holoenzyme complex. the finding that diverse causes of complex i deficiency produce a similar pattern of complex i subcomplexes suggests that these are intermediates in the assembly of the holoenzyme complex. we propose a possible assembly pathway for the complex  which differs significantly from that proposed for neurospora  the current model for complex i assembly.
1226,green tea polyphenol causes differential oxidative environments in tumor versus normal epithelial cells.,green tea polyphenols (gtpps) are considered beneficial to human health  especially as chemopreventive agents. recently  cytotoxic reactive oxygen species (ros) were identified in tumor and certain normal cell cultures incubated with high concentrations of the most abundant gtpp  (-)-epigallocatechin-3-gallate (egcg). if egcg also provokes the production of ros in normal epithelial cells  it may preclude the topical use of egcg at higher doses. the current study examined the oxidative status of normal epithelial  normal salivary gland  and oral carcinoma cells treated with egcg  using ros measurement and catalase and superoxide dismutase activity assays. the results demonstrated that high concentrations of egcg induced oxidative stress only in tumor cells. in contrast  egcg reduced ros in normal cells to background levels. 3-(4 5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2 5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay and 5-bromodeoxyuridine incorporation data were also compared between the two oral carcinoma cell lines treated by egcg  which suggest that a difference in the levels of endogenous catalase activity may play an important role in reducing oxidative stress provoked by egcg in tumor cells. it is concluded that pathways activated by gtpps or egcg in normal epithelial versus tumor cells create different oxidative environments  favoring either normal cell survival or tumor cell destruction. this finding may lead to applications of naturally occurring polyphenols to enhance the effectiveness of chemo/radiation therapy to promote cancer cell death while protecting normal cells.
1228,ribosome biogenesis: achilles heel of cancer?,it is long been known that cancer and non-cancer cells can be distinguished on the basis of their nucleolar morphologies. as early as the 19th century  it was reported that cancer cells have larger and more irregularly shaped nucleoli. since then  pathologists have used nucleolar morphology to predict the clinical outcome [1]. nucleolar morphology is altered due to the up-regulation of ribosomal gene transcription. within nucleoli  ribosomal genes (rdna) are transcribed by rna polymerase i (pol i). the pre-ribosomal rna (pre-rrna) transcripts are subsequently modified and processed into the mature 18s  5.8s and 28s rrnas. 5s rrna is transcribed by rna polymerase iii in the nucleoplasm. together with the ribosomal proteins  the 5s rrna is imported into the nucleolus where 40s and 60s ribosomal subunits are assembled prior to export to the cytoplasm [1  2]. oncogenes such as c-myc can both directly and indirectly upregulate rdna transcription  while tumour suppressors like p53 and rb suppress ribosome biogenesis. mutations in these genes not only result in deregulated cell cycle control  but also upregulated ribosome biogenesis. in addition to ribosome biogenesis  the nucleolus is a key cellular stress sensor and plays a central role in p53 activation [1  2]. the increased translational capacity of cancer cells enables them to maintain higher proliferation rates. as stated by ruggero  “compared with normal cells  cancer cells may be addicted to increases in ribosome biogenesis and number” [1]. this provides new therapeutic opportunities. as it turns out many chemotherapeutic drugs used in cancer treatment already inhibit ribosome biogenesis. in one recent survey it was shown that 20 out of 36 drugs in clinical use inhibit ribosome biogenesis [3]. most of these drugs were originally designed to target highly proliferating cells by damaging dna  interfering with dna synthesis or with mitosis. these targeting modalities of these drugs also lead to toxicity in normal highly proliferating tissues. an example is actinomycind (amd)  a dna intercalator which has a preference for gc-rich dna sequences. as rdna has above average gc-richness and because of its open chromatin conformation  low concentrations of amd preferentially inhibit rna polymerase i transcription and upon prolonged exposure causes genome wide dna damage. alkylating drugs like cisplatin and oxaliplatin or topoisomerases poisons like camptothecin inhibit pol i transcription. the degree to which inhibition of ribosome biogenesis contributes to the efficacy of these drugs is difficult to establish [3]. this raises an important question. can targeting ribosome biogenesis without dna damage offer any therapeutic potential? two recently described drugs cx-5461 and bmh-21 are now providing evidence that inhibition of ribosome biogenesis by targeting transcription of rdna by pol i has promising therapeutic potential. cx-5461 was designed to specifically inhibit pol i transcription by disrupting pre-initiation complex formation at the rdna promoter. cx-5461 has been shown to activate p53 via nucleolar stress. it induces autophagy as well as senescence in a multiple types of cancer cells in a p53-dependent manner. especially in leukaemia and lymphoma cells  treatment with cx-5461 induces p53-dependent apoptosis  while normal cells tolerate it [4  5]. whether the drug also induces dna damage was not fully addressed  but it was demonstrated that it could induce cell death in cells lacking atm - a key mediator of dna double strand break responses. however  more recently laiho and colleagues have shown that at high concentrations  cx-5461 does induce a γh2ax response  raising concerns about dna damage [6]. bmh-21 was identified in a screen performed by laiho and colleagues aimed at identifying novel p53 activators. like amd  bmh-21 is a dna intercalator with preference for gc rich sequences [7]. continuing the parallel with amd  bmh-21 is a potent and specific inhibitor rdna transcription and induces nucleolar reorganisation often referred to as nucleolar capping. interestingly  transcription inhibition was followed by the degradation of the main pol i subunit  rpa194  by the proteasome [6]. in contrast with amd  initial indications were that bmh-21 did not appear to induce dna damage as evidenced by the lack of a γh2ax response [7]. inhibition of transcription by bmh-21 causes nucleolar stress  resulting in decreased proliferation and cell death. p53 is activated in bmh-21 treated cells but is not required for its anti-proliferative effects. intriguingly  it appears that cancer cells with high demands for ribosome biogenesis are selectively targeted [6]. the current publication in oncotarget now rules out any role for dna damage signalling and repair pathways in the bmh-21 response. moreover  bmh-21 derivatives that can induce dna damage display lower efficiency in inducing nucleolar stress and inhibiting proliferation [8]. the central importance of this study is that it finally uncouples dna damage and nucleolar stress and reveals an achilles heel in cancer cells  their addiction to ribosome biogenesis.
1230,inhibition of mammalian target of rapamycin potentiates thrombin-induced intercellular adhesion molecule-1 expression by accelerating and stabilizing nf-kappa b activation in endothelial cells.,we addressed the regulatory function of mammalian target of rapamycin (mtor) in the mechanism of thrombin-induced icam-1 gene expression in endothelial cells. pretreatment of huvecs with rapamycin  an inhibitor of mtor  augmented thrombin-induced icam-1 expression. inhibition of mtor by this approach promoted whereas over-expression of mtor inhibited thrombin-induced transcriptional activity of nf-kappab  an essential regulator of icam-1 transcription. analysis of the nf-kappab signaling pathway revealed that inhibition of mtor potentiated ikappab kinase activation resulting in a rapid and persistent phosphorylation of ikappabalpha on ser32 and ser36  a requirement for ikappabalpha degradation. consistent with these data  we observed a more efficient and stable nuclear localization of rela/p65 and  subsequently  the dna binding activity of nf-kappab by thrombin following mtor inhibition. these data define a novel role of mtor in down-regulating thrombin-induced icam-1 expression in endothelial cells by controlling a delayed and transient activation of nf-kappab.
1232,risk factors at medical school for subsequent professional misconduct: multicentre retrospective case-control study,objective to determine whether there are risk factors in a doctor's time at medical school that are associated with subsequent professional misconduct. design matched case-control study. setting records from medical schools and the general medical council (gmc). participants 59 doctors who had graduated from any one of eight medical schools in the united kingdom in 1958-97 and had a proved finding of serious professional misconduct in gmc proceedings in 1999-2004 (cases); 236 controls (four for each case) were selected by systematic sampling from matching graduation cohorts. case-control status was revealed by the gmc after completion of data entry. main outcome measure odds ratios for being a "case " with multivariable conditional logistic regression of potential risk factors including pre-admission characteristics and progress during the course. these data were obtained from anonymised copies of the students' progress files held by their original medical schools. results univariate conditional logistic regression analysis found that cases were more likely to be men  to be of lower estimated social class  and to have had academic difficulties during their medical course  especially in the early years. multivariable analysis showed that male sex (odds ratio 9.80  95% confidence interval 2.43 to 39.44  p=0.001)  lower social class (4.28  1.52 to 12.09  p=0.006)  and failure of early or preclinical examinations (5.47  2.17 to 13.79  p<0.001) were independently associated with being a case. conclusions this small study suggests that male sex  a lower socioeconomic background  and early academic difficulties at medical school could be risk factors for subsequent professional misconduct. the findings are preliminary and should be interpreted with caution. most doctors with risk factors will not come before the gmc's disciplinary panels.
1234,maximal activation of transcription by statl and stat3 requires both tyrosine and serine phosphorylation,stat1 and stat3 are latent transcriptional factors activated initially through phosphorylation on single tyrosine residues induced by cytokine and growth factor occupation of cell surface receptors. here we show that phosphorylation on a single serine (residue 727) in each protein is also required for maximal transcriptional activity. both cytokines and growth factors are capable of inducing the serine phosphorylation of stat1 and stat3. these experiments show that gene activation by stat1 and stat3  which obligatorily require tyrosine phosphorylation to become active  also depends for maximal activation on one or more of the many serine kinases.
1236,heparan sulfate proteoglycans mediate internalization and propagation of specific proteopathic seeds.,recent experimental evidence suggests that transcellular propagation of fibrillar protein aggregates drives the progression of neurodegenerative diseases in a prion-like manner. this phenomenon is now well described in cell and animal models and involves the release of protein aggregates into the extracellular space. free aggregates then enter neighboring cells to seed further fibrillization. the mechanism by which aggregated extracellular proteins such as tau and α-synuclein bind and enter cells to trigger intracellular fibril formation is unknown. prior work indicates that prion protein aggregates bind heparan sulfate proteoglycans (hspgs) on the cell surface to transmit pathologic processes. here  we find that tau fibril uptake also occurs via hspg binding. this is blocked in cultured cells and primary neurons by heparin  chlorate  heparinase  and genetic knockdown of a key hspg synthetic enzyme  ext1. interference with tau binding to hspgs prevents recombinant tau fibrils from inducing intracellular aggregation and blocks transcellular aggregate propagation. in vivo  a heparin mimetic  f6  blocks neuronal uptake of stereotactically injected tau fibrils. finally  uptake and seeding by α-synuclein fibrils  but not huntingtin fibrils  occurs by the same mechanism as tau. this work suggests a unifying mechanism of cell uptake and propagation for tauopathy and synucleinopathy.
1238,planar cell polarity signaling pathway in congenital heart diseases,congenital heart disease (chd) is a common cardiac disorder in humans. despite many advances in the understanding of chd and the identification of many associated genes  the fundamental etiology for the majority of cases remains unclear. the planar cell polarity (pcp) signaling pathway  responsible for tissue polarity in drosophila and gastrulation movements and cardiogenesis in vertebrates  has been shown to play multiple roles during cardiac differentiation and development. the disrupted function of pcp signaling is connected to some chds. here  we summarize our current understanding of how pcp factors affect the pathogenesis of chd.
1240,dosimetry and risk estimates of radioiodine therapy for large  multinodular goiters.,unlabelled in patients with a large  multinodular goiter (> 100 g)  radiation absorbed doses in the thyroid  surrounding tissues and remainder of the body were estimated after therapeutic administration of 131i(3.7 mbq or 100 microci/g of thyroid tissue retained at 24 hr). methods thermoluminescent dosimeter (tld) measurements were performed on 23 patients (12 euthyroid and 1i hyperthyroid; thyroid weight 222 +/- 72 g; 2.1 +/- 0.9 gbq 131i) on the skin over the thyroid  over the submandibular gland and over the parotid gland. thyroid radioactivity measurements were done daily in 6 euthyroid and 6 hyperthyroid patients (thyroid weight 204 +/- 69 g; 1.9 +/- 0.9 gbq 131i). an iodine biokinetic model and the mird methodology were used to estimate absorbed doses in organs. cancer risks were calculated using icrp publication 60. results cumulated absorbed doses on the skin (tld measurements) were 4.2 +/- 1.4 gy (thyroid)  1.2 +/- 0.6 gy (submandibular) and 0.4 +/- 0.2 gy (parotid). all these values were significantly correlated with the amount of radioiodine retained in the thyroid at 24 hr (euthyroid versus hyperthyroid not significant). absorbed doses in the thyroid of 94 +/- 25 gy for euthyroid and 93 +/- 17 gy for hyperthyroid patients were calculated (thyroid radioactivity measurements). extrathyroidal absorbed doses (means of 12 patients) were 0.88 gy in the urinary bladder  0.57 gy in the small intestine  0.38 gy in the stomach  and ranged from 0.05 to 0.30 gy in other organs (euthyroid versus hyperthyroid not significant). a 1.6% life-time risk of development of cancer outside the thyroid gland was calculated. when applied to people of 65 yr and older the estimated risk is approximately 0.5%. conclusion these data may help in choosing the treatment regimen for individual patients with a large  multinodular goiter  who have to be treated for hyperthyroidism or compressive problems. in younger patients  surgery may be preferred. however  for elderly patients and patients with cardiopulmonary disease  the advantages of noninvasive radioiodine treatment will outweight the life-time risk of this mode of therapy.
1242,patient preferences and expectations for care: determinants in patients with lumbar intervertebral disc herniation.,study design prospective observational cohort. objective to describe the baseline characteristics of patients with a diagnosis of intervertebral disc herniation who had different treatment preferences and the relationship of specific expectations with those preferences. summary of background data data were gathered from the observational cohort of the spine patient outcomes research trial (sport). patients in the observational cohort met eligibility requirements identical to those of the randomized cohort  but declined randomization  receiving instead the treatment of their choice. methods baseline preference and expectation data were acquired at the time of enrollment of the patient  before exposure to the informed consent process. univariate analyses were performed using a t test for continuous variables and chi for categorical variables. multivariate analyses were also performed with ancova for continuous variables and logistic regression for categorical variables. multiple logistic regression models were developed in a forward stepwise fashion using blocks of variables. results more patients preferred operative care: 67% preferred surgery  28% preferred nonoperative treatment  and 6% were unsure; 53% of those preferring surgery stated a definite preference  whereas only 18% of those preferring nonoperative care had a definite preference. patients preferring surgery were younger  had lower levels of education  and higher levels of unemployment/disability. this group also reported higher pain  worse physical and mental functioning  more back pain related disability  a longer duration of symptoms  and more opiate use. gender  race  comorbidities  and use of other therapies did not differ significantly across preference groups. patients' expectations regarding improvement with nonoperative care was the strongest predictor of preference. conclusion patient expectations  particularly regarding the benefit of nonoperative treatment  are the primary determinant of surgery preference among patients with lumbar intervertebral disc herniation. demographic  functional status  and prior treatment experience had significant associations with patients' expectations and preferences.
1244,opa1 gene therapy prevents retinal ganglion cell loss in a dominant optic atrophy mouse model,dominant optic atrophy (doa) is a rare progressive and irreversible blinding disease which is one of the most frequent forms of hereditary optic neuropathy. doa is mainly caused by dominant mutation in the opa1 gene encoding a large mitochondrial gtpase with crucial roles in membrane dynamics and cell survival. hereditary optic neuropathies are commonly characterized by the degeneration of retinal ganglion cells  leading to the optic nerve atrophy and the progressive loss of visual acuity. up to now  despite increasing advances in the understanding of the pathological mechanisms  doa remains intractable. here  we tested the efficiency of gene therapy on a genetically-modified mouse model reproducing doa vision loss. we performed intravitreal injections of an adeno-associated virus carrying the human opa1 cdna under the control of the cytomegalovirus promotor. our results provide the first evidence that gene therapy is efficient on a mouse model of doa as the wild-type opa1 expression is able to alleviate the opa1-induced retinal ganglion cell degeneration  the hallmark of the disease. these results displayed encouraging effects of gene therapy for dominant optic atrophy  fostering future investigations aiming at clinical trials in patients.
1246,dislocation of a type i membrane protein requires interactions between membrane-spanning segments within the lipid bilayer.,the human cytomegalovirus gene product us11 causes rapid degradation of class i major histocompatibility complex (mhci) heavy chains by inducing their dislocation from the endoplasmic reticulum (er) and subsequent degradation by the proteasome. this set of reactions resembles the endogenous cellular quality control pathway that removes misfolded or unassembled proteins from the er. we show that the transmembrane domain (tmd) of us11 is essential for mhci heavy chain dislocation  but dispensable for mhci binding. a gln residue at position 192 in the us11 tmd is crucial for the ubiquitination and degradation of mhci heavy chains. cells that express us11 tmd mutants allow formation of mhci-beta2m complexes  but their rate of egress from the er is significantly impaired. further mutagenesis data are consistent with the presence of an alpha-helical structure in the us11 tmd essential for mhci heavy chain dislocation. the failure of us11 tmd mutants to catalyze dislocation is a unique instance in which a polar residue in the tmd of a type i membrane protein is required for that protein's function. targeting of mhci heavy chains for dislocation by us11 thus requires the formation of interhelical hydrogen bonds within the er membrane.
1248,circulating trimethylamine n‐oxide and the risk of cardiovascular diseases: a systematic review and meta‐analysis of 11 prospective cohort studies,circulating trimethylamine n-oxide (tmao)  a canonical metabolite from gut flora  has been related to the risk of cardiovascular disorders. however  the association between circulating tmao and the risk of cardiovascular events has not been quantitatively evaluated. we performed a systematic review and meta-analysis of all available cohort studies regarding the association between baseline circulating tmao and subsequent cardiovascular events. embase and pubmed databases were searched for relevant cohort studies. the overall hazard ratios for the developing of cardiovascular events (cves) and mortality were extracted. heterogeneity among the included studies was evaluated with cochran's q test and i2 statistics. a random-effect model or a fixed-effect model was applied depending on the heterogeneity. subgroup analysis and meta-regression were used to evaluate the source of heterogeneity. among the 11 eligible studies  three reported both cve and mortality outcome  one reported only cves and the other seven provided mortality data only. higher circulating tmao was associated with a 23% higher risk of cves (hr = 1.23  95% ci: 1.07-1.42  i2 = 31.4%) and a 55% higher risk of all-cause mortality (hr = 1.55  95% ci: 1.19-2.02  i2 = 80.8%). notably  the latter association may be blunted by potential publication bias  although sensitivity analysis by omitting one study at a time did not significantly change the results. further subgroup analysis and meta-regression did not support that the location of the study  follow-up duration  publication year  population characteristics or the samples of tmao affect the results significantly. higher circulating tmao may independently predict the risk of subsequent cardiovascular events and mortality.
1250,discovery of endothelial to mesenchymal transition as a source for carcinoma-associated fibroblasts.,activated fibroblasts are associated with many different tumors. myofibroblasts  activated fibroblasts  and perivascular mesenchymal cells such as pericytes play a role in cancer progression. many studies suggest that myofibroblasts facilitate tumor growth and cancer progression. the source for myofibroblasts and other activated fibroblasts within the tumors is still debated. although de novo activation of quiescent fibroblasts into alpha-smooth muscle actin (alpha sma)-positive myofibroblasts is one likely source  epithelial to mesenchymal transition and bone marrow recruitment are also evolving as possible mechanisms for the emergence of a heterogeneous population of carcinoma-associated fibroblasts. here  we show that transforming growth factor-beta1 could induce proliferating endothelial cells to undergo a phenotypic conversion into fibroblast-like cells. such endothelial to mesenchymal transition (endmt) is associated with the emergence of mesenchymal marker fibroblast-specific protein-1 (fsp1) and down-regulation of cd31/pecam. additionally  we show endmt in tumors using the b16f10 melanoma model and the rip-tag2 spontaneous pancreatic carcinoma model. crossing tie2-cre mice with r26rosa-lox-stop-lox-lacz mice allows for irreversible tagging of endothelial cells. we provide unequivocal evidence for endmt at the invasive front of the tumors in these transgenic mice. collectively  our results show that endmt is a unique mechanism for the accumulation of carcinoma-associated fibroblasts and suggest that antiangiogenic treatment of tumors may have a direct effect in decreasing activated fibroblasts that likely facilitate cancer progression.
1252,engineered rna viral synthesis of micrornas.,micrornas (mirnas) are short noncoding rnas that exert posttranscriptional gene silencing and regulate gene expression. in addition to the hundreds of conserved cellular mirnas that have been identified  mirnas of viral origin have been isolated and found to modulate both the viral life cycle and the cellular transcriptome. thus far  detection of virus-derived mirnas has been largely limited to dna viruses  suggesting that rna viruses may be unable to exploit this aspect of transcriptional regulation. lack of rna virus-produced mirnas has been attributed to the replicative constraints that would incur following rnase iii processing of a genomic hairpin. to ascertain whether the generation of viral mirnas is limited to dna viruses  we investigated whether influenza virus could be designed to deliver functional mirnas without affecting replication. here  we describe a modified influenza a virus that expresses cellular microrna-124 (mir-124). insertion of the mir-124 hairpin into an intron of the nuclear export protein transcript resulted in endogenous processing and functional mir-124. we demonstrate that a viral rna genome incorporating a hairpin does not result in segment instability or mirna-mediated genomic targeting  thereby permitting the virus to produce a mirna without having a negative impact on viral replication. this work demonstrates that rna viruses can produce functional mirnas and suggests that this level of transcriptional regulation may extend beyond dna viruses.
1254,giardiadb and trichdb: integrated genomic resources for the eukaryotic protist pathogens giardia lamblia and trichomonas vaginalis,giardiadb (http://giardiadb.org) and trichdb (http://trichdb.org) house the genome databases for giardia lamblia and trichomonas vaginalis  respectively  and represent the latest additions to the eupathdb (http://eupathdb.org) family of functional genomic databases. giardiadb and trichdb employ the same framework as other eupathdb sites (cryptodb  plasmodb and toxodb)  supporting fully integrated and searchable databases. genomic-scale data available via these resources may be queried based on blast searches  annotation keywords and gene id searches  go terms  sequence motifs and other protein characteristics. functional queries may also be formulated  based on transcript and protein expression data from a variety of platforms. phylogenetic relationships may also be interrogated. the ability to combine the results from independent queries  and to store queries and query results for future use facilitates complex  genome-wide mining of functional genomic data.
1256,identification of a multicomponent complex required for outer membrane biogenesis in escherichia coli,gram-negative bacteria have an outer membrane (om) that functions as a barrier to protect the cell from toxic compounds such as antibiotics and detergents. the om is a highly asymmetric bilayer composed of phospholipids  glycolipids  and proteins. assembly of this essential organelle occurs outside the cytoplasm in an environment that lacks obvious energy sources such as atp  and the mechanisms involved are poorly understood. we describe the identification of a multiprotein complex required for the assembly of proteins in the om of escherichia coli. we also demonstrate genetic interactions between genes encoding components of this protein assembly complex and imp  which encodes a protein involved in the assembly of lipopolysaccharides (lps) in the om. these genetic interactions suggest a role for yfgl  one of the lipoprotein components of the protein assembly complex  in a homeostatic control mechanism that coordinates the overall om assembly process.
1258,autoinduction and signal transduction in the regulation of staphylococcal virulence.,the accessory genes of staphylococcus aureus  including those involved in pathogenesis  are controlled by a complex regulatory network that includes at least four two-component systems  one of which  agr  is a quorum sensor  an alternative sigma factor and a large set of transcription factors  including at least two of the superantigen genes  tst and seb. these regulatory genes are hypothesized to act in a time- and population density-dependent manner to integrate signals received from the external environment with the internal metabolic machinery of the cell  in order to achieve the production of particular subsets of accessory/virulence factors at the time and in quantities that are appropriate to the needs of the organism at any given location. from the standpoint of pathogenesis  the regulatory agenda is presumably tuned to particular sites in the host organism. to address this hypothesis  it will be necessary to understand in considerable detail the regulatory interactions among the organism's numerous controlling systems. this review is an attempt to integrate a large body of data into the beginnings of a model that will hopefully help to guide research towards a full-scale test.
1260,three-dimensional superresolution colocalization of intracellular protein superstructures and the cell surface in live caulobacter crescentus.,recently  single-molecule imaging and photocontrol have enabled superresolution optical microscopy of cellular structures beyond abbe's diffraction limit  extending the frontier of noninvasive imaging of structures within living cells. however  live-cell superresolution imaging has been challenged by the need to image three-dimensional (3d) structures relative to their biological context  such as the cellular membrane. we have developed a technique  termed superresolution by power-dependent active intermittency and points accumulation for imaging in nanoscale topography (spraipaint) that combines imaging of intracellular enhanced yfp (eyfp) fusions (sprai) with stochastic localization of the cell surface (paint) to image two different fluorophores sequentially with only one laser. simple light-induced blinking of eyfp and collisional flux onto the cell surface by nile red are used to achieve single-molecule localizations  without any antibody labeling  cell membrane permeabilization  or thiol-oxygen scavenger systems required. here we demonstrate live-cell 3d superresolution imaging of crescentin-eyfp  a cytoskeletal fluorescent protein fusion  colocalized with the surface of the bacterium caulobacter crescentus using a double-helix point spread function microscope. three-dimensional colocalization of intracellular protein structures and the cell surface with superresolution optical microscopy opens the door for the analysis of protein interactions in living cells with excellent precision (20-40 nm in 3d) over a large field of view (12 12 μm).
1262,senescence and aging: the critical roles of p53,p53 functions as a transcription factor involved in cell-cycle control  dna repair  apoptosis and cellular stress responses. however  besides inducing cell growth arrest and apoptosis  p53 activation also modulates cellular senescence and organismal aging. senescence is an irreversible cell-cycle arrest that has a crucial role both in aging and as a robust physiological antitumor response  which counteracts oncogenic insults. therefore  via the regulation of senescence  p53 contributes to tumor growth suppression  in a manner strictly dependent by its expression and cellular context. in this review  we focus on the recent advances on the contribution of p53 to cellular senescence and its implication for cancer therapy  and we will discuss p53’s impact on animal lifespan. moreover  we describe p53-mediated regulation of several physiological pathways that could mediate its role in both senescence and aging.
1264,harnessing transposons for cancer gene discovery,recently  it has become possible to mobilize the tc1/mariner transposon  sleeping beauty (sb)  in mouse somatic cells at frequencies high enough to induce cancer. tumours result from sb insertional mutagenesis of cancer genes  thus facilitating the identification of the genes and signalling pathways that drive tumour formation. a conditional sb transposition system has also been developed that makes it possible to limit where sb mutagenesis occurs  providing a means to selectively model many types of human cancer. sb mutagenesis has already identified a large collection of known cancer genes in addition to a plethora of new candidate cancer genes and potential drug targets.
1266,estimating risk curves for first-degree relatives of patients with alzheimer’s disease: the reveal study,purpose: the reveal study is a randomized  controlled study of the psychological and behavioral impact of apoe disclosure in a risk assessment protocol provided to first degree relatives of patients with alzheimer’s disease. the protocol presents risk information as cumulative incidence curves. this article describes how these curves were estimated. methods: curves were calculated using bayes’ rule to compute the posterior survival curves incorporating apoe information. results: a combination of survival data from the mirage study and gender- and age-specific apoe odds ratios were used to create risk curves for males and females within each of the 6 apoe genotypes. conclusion: utilizing comparative genotype relative risk information and survival data from family studies  estimates of gender-  age-  and genotype-specific risk can be generated for use in a risk assessment research study that features genotype disclosure.
1268,prostaglandin e2 promotes intestinal tumor growth via dna methylation,although aberrant dna methylation is considered to be one of the key ways by which tumor-suppressor and dna-repair genes are silenced during tumor initiation and progression  the mechanisms underlying dna methylation alterations in cancer remain unclear. here we show that prostaglandin e(2) (pge(2)) silences certain tumor-suppressor and dna-repair genes through dna methylation to promote tumor growth. these findings uncover a previously unrecognized role for pge(2) in the promotion of tumor progression.
1270,microenvironmental regulation of tumor progression and metastasis,cancers develop in complex tissue environments  which they depend on for sustained growth  invasion and metastasis. unlike tumor cells  stromal cell types within the tumor microenvironment (tme) are genetically stable and thus represent an attractive therapeutic target with reduced risk of resistance and tumor recurrence. however  specifically disrupting the pro-tumorigenic tme is a challenging undertaking  as the tme has diverse capacities to induce both beneficial and adverse consequences for tumorigenesis. furthermore  many studies have shown that the microenvironment is capable of normalizing tumor cells  suggesting that re-education of stromal cells  rather than targeted ablation per se  may be an effective strategy for treating cancer. here we discuss the paradoxical roles of the tme during specific stages of cancer progression and metastasis  as well as recent therapeutic attempts to re-educate stromal cells within the tme to have anti-tumorigenic effects.
1272,the modulation of human natural killer cell activity by prostaglandins.,prostaglandins (pgs) have been implicated as a regulator of tumor growth in mice and humans. since natural killer cell (nk) cytotoxicity may be an important component of immune surveillance against cancer  it is appropriate to study whether the amount of pgs produced by tumors may be sufficient to suppress nk activity. accordingly  the effect of various pgs on the nk activity of human peripheral mononuclear cells was investigated. the percentage cytotoxicity was measured by the release of cr51 from labeled k562 and other target cells. at very high concentrations of pg (10(-6) m)  suppression was seen with pge2  pgd2  pga2  and pgf2 alpha. however  at concentrations of pg in the physiologic range (10(-8) m)  significant suppression was seen with pge2 and pgd2 only. the percentage suppression with pge2 ranged from 77% to 9.5% over a range of concentrations from 10(-5) to 10(-9) m (45% at 10(-8) m). significant suppression was observed at 10(-8) m pge2 with 4 different targets and at effector:target ratios varying from 50:1 to 12.5:1. to assess whether the suppressive effect of pge2 was directed at the effector and/or target cell  k562 cells or effector cells were pretreated with pge2. significant suppression was seen with effector cell pretreatment but not with target cell pretreatment. finally  the suppressive effects of supernatants obtained from tumor cell lines (polyoma virus-transformed murine fibroblast cell line  py3t3) was determined. the marked suppressive effect of the supernatant could be attributed to its content of pge. thus  it appears that the production of pge by tumor cells may be an important modulator of human nk activity.
1274,dynamic epigenetic regulation of glioblastoma tumorigenicity through lsd1 modulation of myc expression.,the available evidence suggests that the lethality of glioblastoma is driven by small subpopulations of cells that self-renew and exhibit tumorigenicity. it remains unclear whether tumorigenicity exists as a static property of a few cells or as a dynamically acquired property. we used tumor-sphere and xenograft formation as assays for tumorigenicity and examined subclones isolated from established and primary glioblastoma lines. our results indicate that glioblastoma tumorigenicity is largely deterministic  yet the property can be acquired spontaneously at low frequencies. further  these dynamic transitions are governed by epigenetic reprogramming through the lysine-specific demethylase 1 (lsd1). lsd depletion increases trimethylation of histone 3 lysine 4 at the avian myelocytomatosis viral oncogene homolog (myc) locus  which elevates myc expression. myc  in turn  regulates oligodendrocyte lineage transcription factor 2 (olig2)  sry (sex determining region y)-box 2 (sox2)  and pou class 3 homeobox 2 (pou3f2)  a core set of transcription factors required for reprogramming glioblastoma cells into stem-like states. our model suggests epigenetic regulation of key transcription factors governs transitions between tumorigenic states and provides a framework for glioblastoma therapeutic development.
1276,the diagnosis and management of gastro-oesophageal reflux in infants.,gastro-oesophageal reflux (gor) and gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (gord) occur frequently during the first months of life. gastro-oesophageal reflux may be a primary gastro-intestinal motility disorder  but it may also be secondary to other conditions such as cow's milk protein allergy. objective diagnosis can be difficult because there may be absence of correlation between history  results of ph monitoring and histology. severe gord may cause minor symptoms  and minor gor may cause severe symptoms. several different therapeutic interventions exist. simply stated  thickened formula reduces regurgitation and alginates and proton pump inhibitors can be used to decrease acid gor  depending on the severity of the gord. efficacy data of prokinetic drugs are either lacking or disappointing. regarding side-effects  interest has been focused on cisapride  although other molecules have similar effects. long-term side-effects such as the nutritional consequence of therapeutic management have been insufficiently studied  especially for the acid-reducing molecules.
1278,g*power 3: a flexible statistical power analysis program for the social  behavioral  and biomedical sciences.,g*power (erdfelder  faul  & buchner  1996) was designed as a general stand-alone power analysis program for statistical tests commonly used in social and behavioral research. g*power 3 is a major extension of  and improvement over  the previous versions. it runs on widely used computer platforms (i.e.  windows xp  windows vista  and mac os x 10.4) and covers many different statistical tests of the t  f  and chi2 test families. in addition  it includes power analyses for z tests and some exact tests. g*power 3 provides improved effect size calculators and graphic options  supports both distribution-based and design-based input modes  and offers all types of power analyses in which users might be interested. like its predecessors  g*power 3 is free.
1280,pep-fold: an updated de novo structure prediction server for both linear and disulfide bonded cyclic peptides,in the context of the renewed interest of peptides as therapeutics  it is important to have an on-line resource for 3d structure prediction of peptides with well-defined structures in aqueous solution. we present an updated version of pep-fold allowing the treatment of both linear and disulphide bonded cyclic peptides with 9-36 amino acids. the server makes possible to define disulphide bonds and any residue-residue proximity under the guidance of the biologists. using a benchmark of 34 cyclic peptides with one  two and three disulphide bonds  the best pep-fold models deviate by an average rms of 2.75 å from the full nmr structures. using a benchmark of 37 linear peptides  pep-fold locates lowest-energy conformations deviating by 3 å rms from the nmr rigid cores. the evolution of pep-fold comes as a new on-line service to supersede the previous server. the server is available at: http://bioserv.rpbs.univ-paris-diderot.fr/pep-fold.
1282,breathing more with weaker respiratory muscles in pulmonary arterial hypertension.,exertional fatigue and dyspnoea limit the daily activities of patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension 1. these symptoms are usually explained by the inability of the overloaded right ventricle to perfuse the lungs and to adapt systemic oxygen delivery to oxygen demand. accordingly  pulmonary hypertension patients present with reductions in peak oxygen uptake  anaerobic threshold  oxygen pulse  ventilatory efficiency and 6-min walk distance 2–8. this ergospirometric profile is strikingly similar to that of congestive heart failure 8–12  further supporting the notion of impaired cardiac output adaptation to peripheral oxygen requirements as the main cause of decreased exercise capacity. however  in both pulmonary hypertension and heart failure  ergospirometric variables and walk distances are better correlated to functional class and prognosis than to haemodynamic function 3  6  7  10–12. in addition  impaired skeletal muscle function has been repeatedly reported in heart failure  fuelling a “muscle hypothesis” relating dyspnoea and fatigue symptoms to skeletal muscle metaboreceptor and/or ergoreceptor reflexes 13. the muscle hypothesis implies a persistent sympathetic nervous system activation  which has indeed been shown to occur in heart failure 14 and also  more recently  in pulmonary hypertension 15. until now  there have been no studies on skeletal muscle function in pulmonary arterial hypertension. in the present issue of the european respiratory journal   meyer et al. 16 report data suggesting that respiratory muscle strength is decreased in pulmonary arterial hypertension. in a prospective study on 37 patients with idiopathic pulmonary hypertension  significant decreases in maximal inspiratory (mip) and expiratory pressures (mep) were measured  together with an increased mouth occlusion pressure within first 0.1 s of inspiration ( p 0.1)  suggesting inadequate muscle …
1284,unawareness of hypoglycaemia and inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation: no causal relation with diabetic autonomic neuropathy.,objective to examine the traditional view that unawareness of hypoglycaemia and inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation in insulin dependent diabetes mellitus are manifestations of autonomic neuropathy. design perspective assessment of unawareness of hypoglycaemia and detailed assessment of autonomic neuropathy in patients with insulin dependent diabetes according to the adequacy of their hypoglycaemic counterregulation. setting one routine diabetic unit in a university teaching hospital. patients 23 patients aged 21-52 with insulin dependent diabetes mellitus (seven with symptoms suggesting autonomic neuropathy  nine with a serious clinical problem with hypoglycaemia  and seven without symptoms of autonomic neuropathy and without problems with hypoglycaemia) and 10 controls with a similar age distribution  without a personal or family history of diabetes. main outcome measures presence of autonomic neuropathy as assessed with a test of the longest sympathetic fibres (acetylcholine sweatspot test)  a pupil test  and a battery of seven cardiovascular autonomic function tests; adequacy of hypoglycaemic glucose counterregulation during a 40 mu/kg/h insulin infusion test; history of unawareness of hypoglycaemia; and response of plasma pancreatic polypeptide during hypoglycaemia  which depends on an intact and responding autonomic innervation of the pancreas. results there was little evidence of autonomic neuropathy in either the 12 diabetic patients with a history of unawareness of hypoglycaemia or the seven patients with inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation. by contrast  in all seven patients with clear evidence of autonomic neuropathy there was no history of unawareness of hypoglycaemia and in six out of seven there was adequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation. unawareness of hypoglycaemia and inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation were significantly associated (p less than 0.01). the response of plasma pancreatic polypeptide in the diabetic patients with adequate counterregulation but without autonomic neuropathy was not significantly different from that of the controls (change in plasma pancreatic polypeptide 226.8 v 414 pmol/l). the patients with autonomic neuropathy had a negligible plasma pancreatic polypeptide response (3.7 pmol/l)  but this response was also blunted in the patients with inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation (72.4 pmol/l) compared with that of the controls (p less than 0.05). conclusions unawareness of hypoglycaemia and inadequate glucose counterregulation during hypoglycaemia are related to each other but are not due to autonomic neuropathy. the blunted plasma pancreatic polypeptide responses of the patients with inadequate hypoglycaemic counterregulation may reflect diminished autonomic activity consequent upon reduced responsiveness of a central glucoregulatory centre  rather than classical autonomic neuropathy.
1286,epidermal growth factor receptor expression identifies functionally and molecularly distinct tumor-initiating cells in human glioblastoma multiforme and is required for gliomagenesis.,epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) is a known diagnostic and  although controversial  prognostic marker of human glioblastoma multiforme (gbm). however  its functional role and biological significance in gbm remain elusive. here  we show that multiple gbm cell subpopulations could be purified from the specimens of patients with gbm and from cancer stem cell (csc) lines based on the expression of egfr and of other putative csc markers. all these subpopulations are molecularly and functionally distinct  are tumorigenic  and need to express egfr to promote experimental tumorigenesis. among them  egfr-expressing tumor-initiating cells (tic) display the most malignant functional and molecular phenotype. accordingly  modulation of egfr expression by gain-of-function and loss-of-function strategies in gbm csc lines enhances and reduces their tumorigenic ability  respectively  suggesting that egfr plays a fundamental role in gliomagenesis. these findings open up the possibility of new therapeutically relevant scenarios  as the presence of functionally heterogeneous egfr(pos) and egfr(neg) tic subpopulations within the same tumor might affect clinical response to treatment.
1288,outcome of multipair donor kidney exchange by a web-based algorithm.,donor kidney exchange is an established method to overcome incompatibility of donor-recipient pairs (drp). a computerized algorithm was devised to exchange donor kidney and was tested in a multicenter setting. the algorithm was made according to the consensus of participating centers. it makes all possible exchange combinations not only between two incompatible drp but also circularly among three drp and selects an optimum set of exchange combinations  considering several factors that can affect the outcome of the exchanged transplant. the algorithm was implemented as a web-based program  and matching was performed five times. fifty-three drp were enrolled from five transplant centers. the numbers of drp that were enrolled in each matching were 38 (25:13)  39 (34:5)  33 (31:2)  32 (28:4)  and 34 (30:4) (carryover:newcomer). the numbers of generated exchange combinations were 4:11  3:17  2:12  2:3  and 2:3 (two-pair exchange:three-pair exchange)  and the numbers of drp in selected exchange combinations were six  12  six  five  and four in each matching. the numbers of drp with blood type o recipient or ab donor were five and one  respectively  in selected exchange combinations. six drp of two-pair exchange combinations and six drp of three-pair exchange combinations underwent transplantation successfully. computerized algorithm of donor kidney exchange was tried not only between two incompatible drp but also circularly among three drp. it showed that the algorithm has potential to improve the outcome of donor kidney exchange  especially for disadvantaged drp with blood type o recipients or ab donors.
1290,neuronal activity regulates remyelination via glutamate signalling to oligodendrocyte progenitors,myelin regeneration can occur spontaneously in demyelinating diseases such as multiple sclerosis (ms). however  the underlying mechanisms and causes of its frequent failure remain incompletely understood. here we show  using an in-vivo remyelination model  that demyelinated axons are electrically active and generate de novo synapses with recruited oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (opcs)  which  early after lesion induction  sense neuronal activity by expressing ampa (α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid)/kainate receptors. blocking neuronal activity  axonal vesicular release or ampa receptors in demyelinated lesions results in reduced remyelination. in the absence of neuronal activity there is a ∼6-fold increase in opc number within the lesions and a reduced proportion of differentiated oligodendrocytes. these findings reveal that neuronal activity and release of glutamate instruct opcs to differentiate into new myelinating oligodendrocytes that recover lost function. co-localization of opcs with the presynaptic protein vglut2 in ms lesions implies that this mechanism may provide novel targets to therapeutically enhance remyelination.
1292,inflammation meets cancer  with nf-κb as the matchmaker,inflammation is a fundamental protective response that sometimes goes awry and becomes a major cofactor in the pathogenesis of many chronic human diseases  including cancer. here we review the evolutionary relationship and opposing functions of the transcription factor nf-κb in inflammation and cancer. although it seems to fulfill a distinctly tumor-promoting role in many types of cancer  nf-κb has a confounding role in certain tumors. understanding the activity and function of nf-κb in the context of tumorigenesis is critical for its successful taming  an important challenge for modern cancer biology.
1294,evidence into practice. application of psychological models of change in evidence-based implementation.,psychiatrists have long recognised that routine clinical practice needs to be shaped and informed by external evidence (lewis  1958). psychiatric researchers were among the first to utilise multi-centre randomised controlled trials (demonstrating the effectiveness of antipsychotics)  and psychologists were among the first in the health field to develop techniques of meta-analysis. social workers  too  point to their tradition with the publication of one of the earliest controlled trials (lehrman  1949).
1296,adjustable gastric banding and conventional therapy for type 2 diabetes: a randomized controlled trial.,context observational studies suggest that surgically induced loss of weight may be effective therapy for type 2 diabetes. objective to determine if surgically induced weight loss results in better glycemic control and less need for diabetes medications than conventional approaches to weight loss and diabetes control. design  setting  and participants unblinded randomized controlled trial conducted from december 2002 through december 2006 at the university obesity research center in australia  with general community recruitment to established treatment programs. participants were 60 obese patients (bmi >30 and <40) with recently diagnosed (<2 years) type 2 diabetes. interventions conventional diabetes therapy with a focus on weight loss by lifestyle change vs laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding with conventional diabetes care. main outcome measures remission of type 2 diabetes (fasting glucose level <126 mg/dl [7.0 mmol/l] and glycated hemoglobin [hba1c] value <6.2% while taking no glycemic therapy). secondary measures included weight and components of the metabolic syndrome. analysis was by intention-to-treat. results of the 60 patients enrolled  55 (92%) completed the 2-year follow-up. remission of type 2 diabetes was achieved by 22 (73%) in the surgical group and 4 (13%) in the conventional-therapy group. relative risk of remission for the surgical group was 5.5 (95% confidence interval  2.2-14.0). surgical and conventional-therapy groups lost a mean (sd) of 20.7% (8.6%) and 1.7% (5.2%) of weight  respectively  at 2 years (p < .001). remission of type 2 diabetes was related to weight loss (r2 = 0.46  p < .001) and lower baseline hba1c levels (combined r2 = 0.52  p < .001). there were no serious complications in either group. conclusions participants randomized to surgical therapy were more likely to achieve remission of type 2 diabetes through greater weight loss. these results need to be confirmed in a larger  more diverse population and have long-term efficacy assessed. trial registration actr.org identifier: actrn012605000159651.
1298,from bloodjournal.hematologylibrary.org at penn state university on february 23  2013. for personal use only.,megakaryocyte (mk) is the naturally polyploid cell that gives rise to platelets. polyploidization occurs by endomitosis  which was a process considered to be an incomplete mitosis aborted in anaphase. here  we used time-lapse confocal video microscopy to visualize the endomitotic process of primary human megakaryocytes. our results show that the switch from mitosis to endomitosis corresponds to a late failure of cytokinesis accompanied by a backward movement of the 2 daughter cells. no abnormality was observed in the central spindle of endomitotic mks. a furrow formation was present  but the contractile ring was abnormal because accumulation of nonmuscle myosin iia was lacking. in addition  a defect in cell elongation was observed in dipolar endomitotic mks during telophase. rhoa and f-actin were partially concentrated at the site of furrowing. inhibition of the rho/rock pathway caused the disappearance of f-actin at midzone and increased mk ploidy level. this inhibition was associated with a more pronounced defect in furrow formation as well as in spindle elongation. our results suggest that the late failure of cytokinesis responsible for the endomitotic process is related to a partial defect in the rho/rock pathway activation.
1300,nicotinamide phosphoribosyltransferase/visfatin does not catalyze nicotinamide mononucleotide formation in blood plasma,nicotinamide (nam) phosphoribosyltransferase (nampt) is the rate-limiting enzyme in mammalian nad synthesis  catalyzing nicotinamide mononucleotide (nmn) formation from nam and 5-phosphoribosyl 1-pyrophosphate (prpp). nampt has also been described as an adipocytokine visfatin with a variety of actions  although physiological significance of this protein remains unclear. it has been proposed that possible actions of visfatin are mediated through the extracellular formation of nmn. however  we did not detect nmn in mouse blood plasma  even with a highly specific and sensitive liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry. furthermore  there is no or little atp  the activator of nampt  in extracellular spaces. we thus questioned whether visfatin catalyzes the in situ formation of nmn under such extracellular milieus. to address this question  we here determined k(m) values for the substrates nam and prpp in the nampt reaction without or with atp using a recombinant human enzyme and found that 1 mm atp dramatically decreases k(m) values for the substrates  in particular prpp to its intracellular concentration. consistent with the kinetic data  only when atp is present at millimolar levels  nampt efficiently catalyzed the nmn formation at the intracellular concentrations of the substrates. much lower concentrations of nam and almost the absence of prpp and atp in the blood plasma suggest that nampt should not efficiently catalyze its reaction under the extracellular milieu. indeed  nampt did not form nmn in the blood plasma. from these kinetic analyses of the enzyme and quantitative determination of its substrates  activator  and product  we conclude that visfatin does not participate in nmn formation under the extracellular milieus. together with the absence of nmn in the blood plasma  our conclusion does not support the concept of "nampt-mediated systemic nad biosynthesis. " our study would advance current understanding of visfatin physiology.
1302,visualization of cell cycle in mouse embryos with fucci2 reporter directed by rosa26 promoter.,fucci technology makes possible the distinction between live cells in the g(1) and s/g(2)/m phases by dual-color imaging. this technology relies upon ubiquitylation-mediated proteolysis  and transgenic mice expressing fucci provide a powerful model system with which to study the coordination of the cell cycle and development. the mice were initially generated using the cag promoter; lines expressing the g(1) and s/g(2)/m phase probes that emitted orange (mko2) and green (mag) fluorescence  respectively  were separately constructed. owing to cell type-biased strength of the cag promoter as well as the positional effects of random transgenesis  however  we noticed some variability in fucci expression levels. to control more reliably the expression of cell cycle probes  we used different genetic approaches to create two types of reporter mouse lines with fucci2 and rosa26 transcriptional machinery. fucci2 is a recently developed fucci derivative  which emits red (mcherry) and green (mvenus) fluorescence and provides better color contrast than fucci. a new transgenic line  r26p-fucci2  utilizes the rosa26 promoter and harbors the g(1) and s/g(2)/m phase probes in a single transgene to preserve their co-inheritance. in the other r26r-fucci2 approach  the two probes are incorporated into rosa26 locus conditionally. the cre-mediated loxp recombination technique thus allows researchers to design cell-type-specific fucci2 expression. by performing time-lapse imaging experiments using r26p-fucci2 and r26-fucci2 in which r26r-fucci2 had undergone germline loxp recombination  we demonstrated the great promise of these mouse reporters for studying cell cycle behavior in vivo.
1304,the effects of ly2405319  an fgf21 analog  in obese human subjects with type 2 diabetes.,fibroblast growth factor 21 (fgf21) is a recently discovered metabolic regulator. exogenous fgf21 produces beneficial metabolic effects in animal models; however  the translation of these observations to humans has not been tested. here  we studied the effects of ly2405319 (ly)  a variant of fgf21  in a randomized  placebo-controlled  double-blind proof-of-concept trial in patients with obesity and type 2 diabetes. patients received placebo or 3  10  or 20 mg of ly daily for 28 days. ly treatment produced significant improvements in dyslipidemia  including decreases in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and triglycerides and increases in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and a shift to a potentially less atherogenic apolipoprotein concentration profile. favorable effects on body weight  fasting insulin  and adiponectin were also detected. however  only a trend toward glucose lowering was observed. these results indicate that fgf21 is bioactive in humans and suggest that fgf21-based therapies may be effective for the treatment of selected metabolic disorders.
1306,crucial role of interferon consensus sequence binding protein  but neither of interferon regulatory factor 1 nor of nitric oxide synthesis for protection against murine listeriosis,listeria monocytogenes is widely used as a model to study immune responses against intracellular bacteria. it has been shown that neutrophils and macrophages play an important role to restrict bacterial replication in the early phase of primary infection in mice  and that the cytokines interferon-γ (ifn-γ) and tumor necrosis factor-α (tnf-α) are essential for protection. however  the involved signaling pathways and effector mechanisms are still poorly understood. this study investigated mouse strains deficient for the ifn-dependent transcription factors interferon consensus sequence binding protein (icsbp)  interferon regulatory factor (irf)1 or 2 for their capacity to eliminate listeria in vivo and in vitro and for production of inducible reactive nitrogen intermediates (rni) or reactive oxygen intermediates (roi) in macrophages. icsbp−/− and to a lesser degree also irf2−/− mice were highly susceptible to listeria infection. this correlated with impaired elimination of listeria from infected peritoneal macrophage (pem) cultures stimulated with ifn-γ in vitro; in addition these cultures showed reduced and delayed oxidative burst upon ifn-γ stimulation  whereas nitric oxide production was normal. in contrast  mice deficient for irf1 were not able to produce nitric oxide  but they efficiently controlled listeria in vivo and in vitro. these results indicate that (a) the icsbp/irf2 complex is essential for ifn-γ–mediated protection against listeria and that (b) roi together with additional still unknown effector mechanisms may be responsible for the anti-listeria activity of macrophages  whereas irf1-induced rni are not limiting.
1308,overexpression of the circadian clock gene bmal1 increases sensitivity to oxaliplatin in colorectal cancer.,purpose the circadian clock gene bmal1 is involved in cancer cell proliferation and dna damage sensitivity. the aim of this study was to explore the effect of bmal1 on oxaliplatin sensitivity and to determine its clinical significance in colorectal cancer. experimental design three colorectal cancer cell lines  hct116  thc8307 and ht29  were used. the bmal1-mediated control of colorectal cancer cell proliferation was tested in vitro and in vivo. mtt and colony formation assays were performed to determine the sensitivity of colorectal cancer cells to oxaliplatin. flow cytometry was used to examine changes in the cell-cycle distribution and apoptosis rate. proteins expressed downstream of bmal1 upon its overexpression were determined by western blotting. immunohistochemistry was used to analyze bmal1 expression in 82 archived colorectal cancer tumors from patients treated with oxaliplatin-based regimens. results bmal1 overexpression inhibited colorectal cancer cell proliferation and increased colorectal cancer sensitivity to oxaliplatin in three colorectal cancer cell lines and hct116 cells model in vivo. furthermore  the overall survival of patients with colorectal cancer with high bmal1 levels in their primary tumors was significantly longer than that of patients with low bmal1 levels (27 vs. 19 months; p = 0.043). the progression-free survival of patients with high bmal1 expression was also significantly longer than that of patients with low bmal1 expression (11 vs. 5 months; p = 0.015). mechanistically  the effect of bmal1 was associated with its ability to regulate g2-m arrest by activating the atm pathway. conclusion bmal1 shows the potential as a novel prognostic biomarker and may represent a new therapeutic target in colorectal cancer.
1310,sir2-independent life span extension by calorie restriction in yeast,calorie restriction slows aging and increases life span in many organisms. in yeast  a mechanistic explanation has been proposed whereby calorie restriction slows aging by activating sir2. here we report the identification of a sir2-independent pathway responsible for a majority of the longevity benefit associated with calorie restriction. deletion of fob1 and overexpression of sir2 have been previously found to increase life span by reducing the levels of toxic rdna circles in aged mother cells. we find that combining calorie restriction with either of these genetic interventions dramatically enhances longevity  resulting in the longest-lived yeast strain reported thus far. further  calorie restriction results in a greater life span extension in cells lacking both sir2 and fob1 than in cells where sir2 is present. these findings indicate that sir2 and calorie restriction act in parallel pathways to promote longevity in yeast and  perhaps  higher eukaryotes.
1312,incidence of childhood distal forearm fractures over 30 years: a population-based study.,context the incidence of distal forearm fractures in children peaks around the time of the pubertal growth spurt  possibly because physical activity increases at the time of a transient deficit in cortical bone mass due to the increased calcium demand during maximal skeletal growth. changes in physical activity or diet may therefore influence risk of forearm fracture. objective to determine whether there has been a change in the incidence of distal forearm fractures in children in recent years. design  setting  and patients population-based study among rochester  minn  residents younger than 35 years with distal forearm fractures in 1969-1971  1979-1981  1989-1991  and 1999-2001. main outcome measure estimated incidence of distal forearm fractures in 4 time periods. results comparably age- and sex-adjusted annual incidence rates per 100 000 increased from 263.3 (95% confidence interval [ci]  231.1-295.4) in 1969-1971 to 322.3 (95% ci  285.3-359.4) in 1979-1981 and to 399.8 (95% ci  361.0-438.6) in 1989-1991 before leveling off at 372.9 (95% ci  339.1-406.7) in 1999-2001. age-adjusted incidence rates per 100 000 were 32% greater among male residents in 1999-2001 compared with 1969-1971 (409.4 [95% ci  359.9-459.0] vs 309.4 [95% ci  259.3-359.5]; p =.01) and 56% greater among female residents in the same time periods (334.3 [95% ci  288.6-380.1] vs 214.6 [95% ci  174.9-254.4]; p<.001). the peak incidence and greatest increase occurred between ages 11 and 14 years in boys and 8 and 11 years in girls. conclusions there has been a statistically significant increase in the incidence of distal forearm fractures in children and adolescents  but whether this is due to changing patterns of physical activity  decreased bone acquisition due to poor calcium intake  or both is unclear at present. given the large number of childhood fractures  however  studies are needed to define the cause(s) of this increase.
1314,alzheimer’s disease risk gene cd33 inhibits microglial uptake of amyloid beta,the transmembrane protein cd33 is a sialic acid-binding immunoglobulin-like lectin that regulates innate immunity but has no known functions in the brain. we have previously shown that the cd33 gene is a risk factor for alzheimer's disease (ad). here  we observed increased expression of cd33 in microglial cells in ad brain. the minor allele of the cd33 snp rs3865444  which confers protection against ad  was associated with reductions in both cd33 expression and insoluble amyloid beta 42 (aβ42) levels in ad brain. furthermore  the numbers of cd33-immunoreactive microglia were positively correlated with insoluble aβ42 levels and plaque burden in ad brain. cd33 inhibited uptake and clearance of aβ42 in microglial cell cultures. finally  brain levels of insoluble aβ42 as well as amyloid plaque burden were markedly reduced in app(swe)/ps1(δe9)/cd33(-/-) mice. therefore  cd33 inactivation mitigates aβ pathology and cd33 inhibition could represent a novel therapy for ad.
1316,a longitudinal diffusion tensor imaging study assessing white matter fiber tracts after sports-related concussion.,the extent of structural injury in sports-related concussion (src) is central to the course of recovery  long-term effects  and the decision to return to play. in the present longitudinal study  we used diffusion tensor imaging (dti) to assess white matter (wm) fiber tract integrity within 2 days  2 weeks  and 2 months of concussive injury. participants were right-handed male varsity contact-sport athletes (20.2±1.0 years of age) with a medically diagnosed src (no loss of consciousness). they were compared to right-handed male varsity non-contact-sport athletes serving as controls (19.9±1.7 years). we found significantly increased radial diffusivity (rd) in concussed athletes (n=12; paired t-test  tract-based spatial statistics; p<0.025) at 2 days  when compared to the 2-week postinjury time point. the increase was found in a cluster of right hemisphere voxels  spanning the posterior limb of the internal capsule (ic)  the retrolenticular part of the ic  the inferior longitudinal fasciculus  the inferior fronto-occipital fasciculus (sagittal stratum)  and the anterior thalamic radiation. post-hoc  univariate  between-group (controls vs. concussed)  mixed-effects analysis of the cluster showed significantly higher rd at 2 days (p=0.002)  as compared to the controls  with a trend in the same direction at 2 months (p=0.11). results for fractional anisotropy (fa) in the same cluster showed a similar  but inverted  pattern; fa was decreased at 2 days and at 2 months postinjury  when compared to healthy controls. at 2 weeks postinjury  no statistical differences between concussed and control athletes were found with regard to either rd or fa. these results support the hypothesis of increased rd and reduced fa within 72 h postinjury  followed by recovery that may extend beyond 2 weeks. rd appears to be a sensitive measure of concussive injury.
1318,the human long non-coding rna-ror is a p53 repressor in response to dna damage,it is well known that upon stress  the level of the tumor suppressor p53 is remarkably elevated. however  despite extensive studies  the underlying mechanism involving important inter-players for stress-induced p53 regulation is still not fully understood. we present evidence that the human lincrna-ror (ror) is a strong negative regulator of p53. unlike mdm2 that causes p53 degradation through the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway  ror suppresses p53 translation through direct interaction with the heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein i (hnrnp i). importantly  a 28-base ror sequence carrying hnrnp i binding motifs is essential and sufficient for p53 repression. we further show that ror inhibits p53-mediated cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. finally  we demonstrate a ror-p53 autoregulatory feedback loop where p53 transcriptionally induces ror expression. together  these results suggest that the ror-hnrnp i-p53 axis may constitute an additional surveillance network for the cell to better respond to various stresses.
1320,virtual microdissection identifies distinct tumor- and stroma-specific subtypes of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma,pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (pdac) remains a lethal disease with a 5-year survival rate of 4%. a key hallmark of pdac is extensive stromal involvement  which makes capturing precise tumor-specific molecular information difficult. here we have overcome this problem by applying blind source separation to a diverse collection of pdac gene expression microarray data  including data from primary tumor  metastatic and normal samples. by digitally separating tumor  stromal and normal gene expression  we have identified and validated two tumor subtypes  including a 'basal-like' subtype that has worse outcome and is molecularly similar to basal tumors in bladder and breast cancers. furthermore  we define 'normal' and 'activated' stromal subtypes  which are independently prognostic. our results provide new insights into the molecular composition of pdac  which may be used to tailor therapies or provide decision support in a clinical setting where the choice and timing of therapies are critical.
1322,the use of mouse models to understand and improve cognitive deficits in down syndrome,remarkable advances have been made in recent years towards therapeutics for cognitive impairment in individuals with down syndrome (ds) by using mouse models. in this review  we briefly describe the phenotypes of mouse models that represent outcome targets for drug testing  the behavioral tests used to assess impairments in cognition and the known mechanisms of action of several drugs that are being used in preclinical studies or are likely to be tested in clinical trials. overlaps in the distribution of targets and in the pathways that are affected by these diverse drugs in the trisomic brain suggest new avenues for ds research and drug development.
1324,pedestrian detection via periodic motion analysis,we describe algorithms for detecting pedestrians in videos acquired by infrared (and color) sensors. two approaches are proposed based on gait. the first employs computationally efficient periodicity measurements. unlike other methods  it estimates a periodic motion frequency using two cascading hypothesis testing steps to filter out non-cyclic pixels so that it works well for both radial and lateral walking directions. the extraction of the period is efficient and robust with respect to sensor noise and cluttered background. in order to integrate shape and motion  we convert the cyclic pattern into a binary sequence by maximal principal gait angle (mpga) fitting in the second method. it does not require alignment and continuously estimates the period using a phase-locked loop. both methods are evaluated by experimental results that measure performance as a function of size  movement direction  frame rate and sequence length.
1326,notch targets and their regulation.,the proteolytic cleavages elicited by activation of the notch receptor release an intracellular fragment  notch intracellular domain  which enters the nucleus to activate the transcription of targets. changes in transcription are therefore a major output of this pathway. however  the notch outputs clearly differ from cell type to cell type. in this review we discuss current understanding of notch targets  the mechanisms involved in their transcriptional regulation  and what might underlie the activation of different sets of targets in different cell types.
1328,microrna-21 is up-regulated in allergic airway inflammation and regulates il-12p35 expression.,allergic airway inflammation is characterized by marked in situ changes in gene and protein expression  yet the role of micrornas (mirnas)  a new family of key mrna regulatory molecules  in this process has not yet been reported. using a highly sensitive microarray-based approach  we identified 21 mirnas with differential expression between doxycycline-induced lung-specific il-13 transgenic mice (with allergic airway inflammation) and control mice. in particular  we observed overexpression of mir-21 and underexpression of mir-1 in the induced il-13 transgenic mice compared with control mice. these findings were validated in two independent models of allergen-induced allergic airway inflammation and in il-4 lung transgenic mice. although il-13-induced mir-21 expression was il-13ralpha1 dependent  allergen-induced mir-21 expression was mediated mainly independent of il-13ralpha1 and stat6. notably  predictive algorithms identified potential direct mir-21 targets among il-13-regulated lung transcripts  such as il-12p35 mrna  which was decreased in il-13 transgenic mice. introduction of pre-mir-21 dose dependently inhibited cellular expression of a reporter vector harboring the 3'-untranslated region of il-12p35. moreover  mutating mir-21 binding sites in il-12p35 3'-untranslated region abrogated mir-21-mediated repression. in summary  we have identified a mirna signature in allergic airway inflammation  which includes mir-21 that modulates il-12  a molecule germane to th cell polarization.
1330,changing geographic ranges of ticks and tick-borne pathogens: drivers  mechanisms and consequences for pathogen diversity,the geographic ranges of ticks and tick-borne pathogens are changing due to global and local environmental (including climatic) changes. in this review we explore current knowledge of the drivers for changes in the ranges of ticks and tick-borne pathogen species and strains via effects on their basic reproduction number (r 0)  and the mechanisms of dispersal that allow ticks and tick-borne pathogens to invade suitable environments. using the expanding geographic distribution of the vectors and agent of lyme disease as an example we then investigate what could be expected of the diversity of tick-borne pathogens during the process of range expansion  and compare this with what is currently being observed. lastly we explore how historic population and range expansions and contractions could be reflected in the phylogeography of ticks and tick-borne pathogens seen in recent years  and conclude that combined study of currently changing tick and tick-borne pathogen ranges and diversity  with phylogeographic analysis  may help us better predict future patterns of invasion and diversity.
1332,trimmomatic: a flexible trimmer for illumina sequence data,motivation although many next-generation sequencing (ngs) read preprocessing tools already existed  we could not find any tool or combination of tools that met our requirements in terms of flexibility  correct handling of paired-end data and high performance. we have developed trimmomatic as a more flexible and efficient preprocessing tool  which could correctly handle paired-end data. results the value of ngs read preprocessing is demonstrated for both reference-based and reference-free tasks. trimmomatic is shown to produce output that is at least competitive with  and in many cases superior to  that produced by other tools  in all scenarios tested. availability and implementation trimmomatic is licensed under gpl v3. it is cross-platform (java 1.5+ required) and available at http://www.usadellab.org/cms/index.php?page=trimmomatic   contact usadel@bio1.rwth-aachen.de   supplementary information supplementary data are available at bioinformatics online.
1334,dissociation of β1- and β2-adrenergic receptor subtypes in the retrieval of cocaine-associated memory.,drug seeking is maintained by encounters with drug-associated cues  and disrupting retrieval of these drug-cue associations would reduce the risk of relapse. retrieval of cocaine-associated memories is dependent on β-adrenergic receptor (β-ar) activation  and blockade of these receptors induces a persistent retrieval deficit. whether retrieval of cocaine-associated memory is mediated by a specific β-ar subtype  however  remains unclear. using a cocaine conditioned place preference (cpp) procedure  we examined whether retrieval of a cocaine cpp memory is mediated collectively by β1- and β2-ars  or by one of these β-ar subtypes alone. we show that co-blockade of β1- and β2-ars abolished cpp expression on that and subsequent drug-free cpp tests  resulting in a long-lasting retrieval deficit that prevented subsequent cocaine-induced reinstatement. to dissociate the necessity of either β1- or β2-ars alone  we administered subtype-specific antagonists prior to retrieval. administration of a β1-ar antagonist before the initial cpp trial dose-dependently reduced expression of a cpp on that and subsequent drug-free trials as compared to vehicle administration. in contrast  administration of a β2-ar antagonist had no effect on initial cpp expression  although the highest dose reduced subsequent cpp expression. importantly  either β1- or β2-ar blockade prior to an initial retrieval trial prevented subsequent cocaine-induced reinstatement. our findings indicate that the β1-ar subtype mediates retrieval of a cocaine cpp  and that acutely blocking either β1- or β2-ars can prevent subsequent cocaine-induced reinstatement. thus  β-ar antagonists  particularly β1-ars antagonists  could serve as adjuncts for addiction therapies to prevent retrieval of drug-associated memories and provide protection against relapse.
1336,the public health responsibility deal: brokering a deal for public health  but on whose terms?,unlabelled coalitions of multinational food and drink businesses have pledged to reformulate their products and to market them responsibly. largely business-led and self-regulated  the integrity of these voluntary initiatives has been questioned. the public health responsibility deal in england is an example of a voluntary initiative that is government-led. does this approach provide evidence that with public leadership there is potential for voluntary actions to deliver meaningful results for public health? methods the subject of the research is the calorie reduction initiative of the responsibility deal. source material was obtained primarily through a series of uk freedom of information requests and comprises previously unpublished department of health documentation relating to relevant meetings held during 2011 and 2012. results the responsibility deal approach to calorie reduction deliberately involves the food industry in the specification of the measures it is to implement (reformulation and portion control). finding the common ground between private and public interests has resulted in the deflection of public health objectives and the preclusion of adequate monitoring and evaluation. conclusions the responsibility deal approach is fundamentally flawed in its expectation that industry will take voluntary actions that prioritise public health interests above its own. being government-led counts for little in the absence of sanctions to drive compliance. instead the initiative affords private interests the opportunity to influence in their favour the public health policies and strategies that affect their products.
1338,schistosoma mansoni worms induce anergy of t cells via selective up-regulation of programmed death ligand 1 on macrophages.,infectious pathogens can selectively stimulate activation or suppression of t cells to facilitate their survival within humans. in this study we demonstrate that the trematode parasite schistosoma mansoni has evolved with two distinct mechanisms to suppress t cell activation. during the initial 4- to 12-wk acute stages of a worm infection both cd4(+) and cd8(+) t cells are anergized. in contrast  infection with male and female worms induced t cell anergy at 4 wk  which was replaced after egg laying by t cell suppression via a known no-dependent mechanism  that was detected for up to 40 wk after infection. worm-induced anergy was mediated by splenic f4/80(+) macrophages (mphi) via an il-4-  il-13-  il-10-  tgf-beta-  and no-independent  but cell contact-dependent  mechanism. f4/80(+) mphi isolated from worm-infected mice were shown to induce anergy of naive t cells in vitro. furthermore  naive mphi exposed to live worms in vitro also induced anergy in naive t cells. flow cytometry on in vivo and in vitro worm-modulated mphi revealed that of the family of b7 costimulatory molecules  only programmed death ligand 1 (pd-l1) was selectively up-regulated. the addition of inhibitory mab against pd-l1  but not pd-l2  to worm-modulated mphi completely blocked the ability of these cells to anergize t cells. these data highlight a novel mechanism through which s. mansoni worms have usurped the natural function of pd-l1 to reduce t cell activation during early acute stages of infection before the subsequent emergence of egg-induced t cell suppression in the chronic stages of infection.
1340,transcriptional repressor blimp-1 is essential for t cell homeostasis and self-tolerance,t cell homeostasis is crucial for a functional immune system  as the accumulation of t cells resulting from lack of regulatory t cells or an inability to shut down immune responses can lead to inflammation and autoimmune pathology. here we show that blimp-1  a transcriptional repressor that is a 'master regulator' of terminal b cell differentiation  was expressed in a subset of antigen-experienced cd4+ and cd8+ t cells. mice reconstituted with fetal liver stem cells expressing a mutant blimp-1 lacking the dna-binding domain developed a lethal multiorgan inflammatory disease caused by an accumulation of effector and memory t cells. these data identify blimp-1 as an essential regulator of t cell homeostasis and suggest that blimp-1 regulates both b cell and t cell differentiation.
1342,an administrative claims measure suitable for profiling hospital performance on the basis of 30-day all-cause readmission rates among patients with heart failure.,background readmission soon after hospital discharge is an expensive and often preventable event for patients with heart failure. we present a model approved by the national quality forum for the purpose of public reporting of hospital-level readmission rates by the centers for medicare & medicaid services. methods and results we developed a hierarchical logistic regression model to calculate hospital risk-standardized 30-day all-cause readmission rates for patients hospitalized with heart failure. the model was derived with the use of medicare claims data for a 2004 cohort and validated with the use of claims and medical record data. the unadjusted readmission rate was 23.6%. the final model included 37 variables  had discrimination ranging from 15% observed 30-day readmission rate in the lowest predictive decile to 37% in the upper decile  and had a c statistic of 0.60. the 25th and 75th percentiles of the risk-standardized readmission rates across 4669 hospitals were 23.1% and 24.0%  with 5th and 95th percentiles of 22.2% and 25.1%  respectively. the odds of all-cause readmission for a hospital 1 standard deviation above average was 1.30 times that of a hospital 1 standard deviation below average. state-level adjusted readmission rates developed with the use of the claims model are similar to rates produced for the same cohort with the use of a medical record model (correlation  0.97; median difference  0.06 percentage points). conclusions this claims-based model of hospital risk-standardized readmission rates for heart failure patients produces estimates that may serve as surrogates for those derived from a medical record model.
1344,the histone demethylases jhdm1a/1b enhance somatic cell reprogramming in a vitamin-c-dependent manner.,reprogramming of somatic cells into induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs) resets the epigenome to an embryonic-like state. vitamin c enhances the reprogramming process  but the underlying mechanisms are unclear. here we show that the histone demethylases jhdm1a/1b are key effectors of somatic cell reprogramming downstream of vitamin c. we first observed that vitamin c induces h3k36me2/3 demethylation in mouse embryonic fibroblasts in culture and during reprogramming. we then identified jhdm1a/1b  two known vitamin-c-dependent h3k36 demethylases  as potent regulators of reprogramming through gain- and loss-of-function approaches. furthermore  we found that jhdm1b accelerates cell cycle progression and suppresses cell senescence during reprogramming by repressing the ink4/arf locus. jhdm1b also cooperates with oct4 to activate the microrna cluster 302/367  an integral component of the pluripotency machinery. our results therefore reveal a role for h3k36me2/3 in cell fate determination and establish a link between histone demethylases and vitamin-c-induced reprogramming.
1346,archaea in biogeochemical cycles.,archaea constitute a considerable fraction of the microbial biomass on earth. like bacteria they have evolved a variety of energy metabolisms using organic and/or inorganic electron donors and acceptors  and many of them are able to fix carbon from inorganic sources. archaea thus play crucial roles in the earth's global geochemical cycles and influence greenhouse gas emissions. methanogenesis and anaerobic methane oxidation are important steps in the carbon cycle; both are performed exclusively by anaerobic archaea. oxidation of ammonia to nitrite is performed by thaumarchaeota. they represent the only archaeal group that resides in large numbers in the global aerobic terrestrial and marine environments on earth. sulfur-dependent archaea are confined mostly to hot environments  but metal leaching by acidophiles and reduction of sulfate by anaerobic  nonthermophilic methane oxidizers have a potential impact on the environment. the metabolisms of a large number of archaea  in particular those dominating the subsurface  remain to be explored.
1348,viral carcinogenesis.,cancer has been recognized for thousands of years. egyptians believed that cancer occurred at the will of the gods. hippocrates believed human disease resulted from an imbalance of the four humors: blood  phlegm  yellow bile  and black bile with cancer being caused by excess black bile. the lymph theory of cancer replaced the humoral theory and the blastema theory replaced the lymph theory. rudolph virchow was the first to recognize that cancer cells like all cells came from other cells and believed chronic irritation caused cancer. at the same time there was a belief that trauma caused cancer  though it never evolved after many experiments inducing trauma. the birth of virology occurred in 1892 when dimitri ivanofsky demonstrated that diseased tobacco plants remained infective after filtering their sap through a filter that trapped bacteria. martinus beijerinck would call the tiny infective agent a virus and both dimitri ivanofsky and marinus beijerinck would become the fathers of virology. not to long thereafter  payton rous founded the field of tumor virology in 1911 with his discovery of a transmittable sarcoma of chickens by what would come to be called rous sarcoma virus or rsv for short. the first identified human tumor virus was the epstein-barr virus (ebv)  named after tony epstein and yvonne barr who visualized the virus particles in burkitt's lymphoma cells by electron microscopy in 1965. since that time  many viruses have been associated with carcinogenesis including the most studied  human papilloma virus associated with cervical carcinoma  many other anogenital carcinomas  and oropharyngeal carcinoma. the world health organization currently estimates that approximately 22% of worldwide cancers are attributable to infectious etiologies  of which viral etiologies is estimated at 15-20%. the field of tumor virology/viral carcinogenesis has not only identified viruses as etiologic agents of human cancers  but has also given molecular insights to all human cancers including the oncogene activation and tumor suppressor gene inactivation.
1350,statins in the primary prevention of cardiovascular disease,statins are widely used in the evidence-based lowering of cardiovascular disease (cvd) risk. the use of these drugs for secondary prevention of cvd is well founded  but their expanding use in primary prevention—in individuals without documented cvd—has raised some concerns. firstly  evidence suggests that  in primary prevention  statins substantially decrease cvd morbidity  but only moderately reduce cvd mortality. secondly  long-term statin use might cause adverse effects  such as incident diabetes mellitus. thirdly  the cost-effectiveness of such a strategy is unclear  and has to be balanced against the risk of 'overmedicating' the general population. data clearly support the use of statins for primary prevention in high-risk individuals  in whom the strategy is cost-effective and the benefits exceed the risks. whether primary prevention is beneficial in individuals at low or moderate risk is not certain. therefore  the prescription of statins for primary prevention should be individualized on the basis of clinical judgment  particularly for low-risk individuals. in appropriately selected individuals  statins should also be used for primary prevention of ischaemic stroke and transient ischaemic attack.
1352,a beginning of the end: new insights into the functional organization of telomeres,ever since the first demonstration of their repetitive sequence and unique replication pathway  telomeres have beguiled researchers with how they function in protecting chromosome ends. of course much has been learned over the years  and we now appreciate that telomeres are comprised of the multimeric protein/dna shelterin complex and that the formation of t-loops provides protection from dna damage machinery. deriving their name from d-loops  t-loops are generated by the insertion of the 3' overhang into telomeric repeats facilitated by the binding of trf2. recent studies have uncovered novel forms of chromosome end-structure that may implicate telomere organization in cellular processes beyond its essential role in telomere protection and homeostasis. in particular  we have recently described that t-loops form in a trf2-dependent manner at interstitial telomere repeat sequences  which we termed interstitial telomere loops (itls). these structures are also dependent on association of lamin a/c  a canonical component of the nucleoskeleton that is mutated in myriad human diseases  including human segmental progeroid syndromes. since itls are associated with telomere stability and require functional lamin a/c  our study suggests a mechanistic link between cellular aging (replicative senescence induced by telomere shortening) and organismal aging (modeled by hutchinson gilford progeria syndrome). here we speculate on other potential ramifications of itl formation  from gene expression to genome stability to chromosome structure.
1354,involvement of er stress in dysmyelination of pelizaeus-merzbacher disease with plp1 missense mutations shown by ipsc-derived oligodendrocytes,pelizaeus-merzbacher disease (pmd) is a form of x-linked leukodystrophy caused by mutations in the proteolipid protein 1 (plp1) gene. although plp1 proteins with missense mutations have been shown to accumulate in the rough endoplasmic reticulum (er) in disease model animals and cell lines transfected with mutant plp1 genes  the exact pathogenetic mechanism of pmd has not previously been clarified. in this study  we established induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs) from two pmd patients carrying missense mutation and differentiated them into oligodendrocytes in vitro. in the pmd ipsc-derived oligodendrocytes  mislocalization of mutant plp1 proteins to the er and an association between increased susceptibility to er stress and increased numbers of apoptotic oligodendrocytes were observed. moreover  electron microscopic analysis demonstrated drastically reduced myelin formation accompanied by abnormal er morphology. thus  this study demonstrates the involvement of er stress in pathogenic dysmyelination in the oligodendrocytes of pmd patients with the plp1 missense mutation.
1356,independently evolving species in asexual bdelloid rotifers,asexuals are an important test case for theories of why species exist. if asexual clades displayed the same pattern of discrete variation as sexual clades  this would challenge the traditional view that sex is necessary for diversification into species. however  critical evidence has been lacking: all putative examples have involved organisms with recent or ongoing histories of recombination and have relied on visual interpretation of patterns of genetic and phenotypic variation rather than on formal tests of alternative evolutionary scenarios. here we show that a classic asexual clade  the bdelloid rotifers  has diversified into distinct evolutionary species. intensive sampling of the genus rotaria reveals the presence of well-separated genetic clusters indicative of independent evolution. moreover  combined genetic and morphological analyses reveal divergent selection in feeding morphology  indicative of niche divergence. some of the morphologically coherent groups experiencing divergent selection contain several genetic clusters  in common with findings of cryptic species in sexual organisms. our results show that the main causes of speciation in sexual organisms  population isolation and divergent selection  have the same qualitative effects in an asexual clade. the study also demonstrates how combined molecular and morphological analyses can shed new light on the evolutionary nature of species.
1358,genomic nucleosome organization reconstituted with pure proteins,chromatin remodelers regulate genes by organizing nucleosomes around promoters  but their individual contributions are obfuscated by the complex in vivo milieu of factor redundancy and indirect effects. genome-wide reconstitution of promoter nucleosome organization with purified proteins resolves this problem and is therefore a critical goal. here  we reconstitute four stages of nucleosome architecture using purified components: yeast genomic dna  histones  sequence-specific abf1/reb1  and remodelers rsc  isw2  ino80  and isw1a. we identify direct  specific  and sufficient contributions that in vivo observations validate. first  rsc clears promoters by translating poly(da:dt) into directional nucleosome removal. second  partial redundancy is recapitulated where ino80 alone  or isw2 at abf1/reb1sites  positions +1 nucleosomes. third  ino80 and isw2 each align downstream nucleosomal arrays. fourth  isw1a tightens the spacing to canonical repeat lengths. such a minimal set of rules and proteins establishes core mechanisms by which promoter chromatin architecture arises through a blend of redundancy and specialization.
1360,prox1 is required for granule cell maturation and intermediate progenitor maintenance during brain neurogenesis,the dentate gyrus has an important role in learning and memory  and adult neurogenesis in the subgranular zone of the dentate gyrus may play a role in the acquisition of new memories. the homeobox gene prox1 is expressed in the dentate gyrus during embryonic development and adult neurogenesis. here we show that prox1 is necessary for the maturation of granule cells in the dentate gyrus during development and for the maintenance of intermediate progenitors during adult neurogenesis. we also demonstrate that prox1-expressing intermediate progenitors are required for adult neural stem cell self-maintenance in the subgranular zone; thus  we have identified a previously unknown non-cell autonomous regulatory feedback mechanism that controls adult neurogenesis in this region of the mammalian brain. finally  we show that the ectopic expression of prox1 induces premature differentiation of neural stem cells.
1362,senescent growth arrest in mesenchymal stem cells is bypassed by wip1-mediated downregulation of intrinsic stress signaling pathways.,human mesenchymal stem cells (hmscs) have been widely studied as a source of primary adult stem cells for cell therapy because of their multidifferentiation potential; however  the growth arrest (also known as "premature senescence") often found in hmscs cultured in vitro has been a major obstacle to the in-depth characterization of these cells. in addition  the inability to maintain constant cell growth hampers the development of additional genetic modifications aimed at achieving desired levels of differentiation to specific tissues; however  the molecular mechanisms that govern this phenomenon remain unclear  with the exception of a few studies demonstrating that induction of p16ink4a is responsible for this senescence-like event. here  we observed that the premature growth arrest in hmscs occurs in parallel with the induction of p16ink4a  following abrogation of inhibitory phosphorylation of retinoblastoma protein. these stress responses were concurrent with increased formation of reactive oxygen species (ross) from mitochondria and increased p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (mapk) activity. the introduction of wip1 (wild-type p53 inducible phosphatase-1)  a well-studied stress modulator  significantly lowered p16ink4a expression and led to p38 mapk inactivation  although it failed to affect the levels of ross. moreover  the suppression of stress responses by wip1 apparently extended the life span of hmscs  compared with control conditions  while maintaining their multilineage differentiation potential. based on these results  we suggest that senescent growth arrest in hmscs may result from activation of stress signaling pathways and consequent onset of stress responses  due in part to ros production during prolonged in vitro culture.
1364,fate mapping reveals origins and dynamics of monocytes and tissue macrophages under homeostasis.,mononuclear phagocytes  including monocytes  macrophages  and dendritic cells  contribute to tissue integrity as well as to innate and adaptive immune defense. emerging evidence for labor division indicates that manipulation of these cells could bear therapeutic potential. however  specific ontogenies of individual populations and the overall functional organization of this cellular network are not well defined. here we report a fate-mapping study of the murine monocyte and macrophage compartment taking advantage of constitutive and conditional cx(3)cr1 promoter-driven cre recombinase expression. we have demonstrated that major tissue-resident macrophage populations  including liver kupffer cells and lung alveolar  splenic  and peritoneal macrophages  are established prior to birth and maintain themselves subsequently during adulthood independent of replenishment by blood monocytes. furthermore  we have established that short-lived ly6c(+) monocytes constitute obligatory steady-state precursors of blood-resident ly6c(-) cells and that the abundance of ly6c(+) blood monocytes dynamically controls the circulation lifespan of their progeny.
1366,antagonistic controls of autophagy and glycogen accumulation by snf1p  the yeast homolog of amp-activated protein kinase  and the cyclin-dependent,in the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae  glycogen is accumulated as a carbohydrate reserve when cells are deprived of nutrients. yeast mutated in snf1  a gene encoding a protein kinase required for glucose derepression  has diminished glycogen accumulation and concomitant inactivation of glycogen synthase. restoration of synthesis in an snf1 strain results only in transient glycogen accumulation  implying the existence of other snf1-dependent controls of glycogen storage. a genetic screen revealed that two genes involved in autophagy  apg1 and apg13  may be regulated by snf1. increased autophagic activity was observed in wild-type cells entering the stationary phase  but this induction was impaired in an snf1 strain. mutants defective for autophagy were able to synthesize glycogen upon approaching the stationary phase  but were unable to maintain their glycogen stores  because subsequent synthesis was impaired and degradation by phosphorylase  gph1p  was enhanced. thus  deletion of gph1 partially reversed the loss of glycogen accumulation in autophagy mutants. loss of the vacuolar glucosidase  sga1  also protected glycogen stores  but only very late in the stationary phase. gph1p and sga1p may therefore degrade physically distinct pools of glycogen. pho85p is a cyclin-dependent protein kinase that antagonizes snf1 control of glycogen synthesis. induction of autophagy in pho85 mutants entering the stationary phase was exaggerated compared to the level in wild-type cells  but was blocked in apg1 pho85 mutants. we propose that snf1p and pho85p are  respectively  positive and negative regulators of autophagy  probably via apg1 and/or apg13. defective glycogen storage in snf1 cells can be attributed to both defective synthesis upon entry into stationary phase and impaired maintenance of glycogen levels caused by the lack of autophagy.
1368,developmental biology of the pancreas.,the pancreas is an organ containing two distinct populations of cells  the exocrine cells that secrete enzymes into the digestive tract  and the endocrine cells that secrete hormones into the bloodstream. it arises from the endoderm as a dorsal and a ventral bud which fuse together to form the single organ. mammals  birds  reptiles and amphibians have a pancreas with similar histology and mode of development  while in some fish  the islet cells are segregated as brockmann bodies. invertebrates do not have a pancreas  but comparable endocrine cells may be found in the gut or the brain. the early pancreatic bud shows uniform expression of the homeobox gene ipf-1 (also known as idx-1  stf-1 or pdx)  which when mutated to inactivity leads to total absence of the organ. the occurrence of heterotopic pancreas in the embryo  and also the metaplasias that can be displayed by a regenerating pancreas in the adult  both suggest that only a few gene products distinguish the pancreatic cell state from that of the surrounding tissues of duodenum  gall bladder and liver. in the developing pancreatic buds  the endocrine cells start to differentiate before the exocrine cells  and co-expression of different hormones by the same cell is often observed at early stages. although pancreatic endocrine cells produce many gene products also characteristic of neurons  evidence from in vitro cultures and from quailchick grafts shows that they are of endogenous and not of neural crest origin. observational studies suggest strongly that both endocrine and exocrine cells arise from the same endodermal rudiment. development of the pancreas in embryonic life requires a trophic stimulus from the associated mesenchyme. in postnatal life  all cell types in the pancreas continue to grow. destruction of acinar tissue by duct ligation or ethionine treatment is followed by rapid regeneration. surgical removal of parts of the pancreas is followed by moderate but incomplete regeneration of both acini and islets. poisoning with alloxan or streptozotocin can lead to permanent depletion of beta cells. although the cell kinetics of the pancreas are not understood  it seems likely that there is a continuous slow turnover of cells  fed from a stem cells population in the ducts  and that the controls on the production rate of each cell type are local rather than systemic.
1370,the centrosome cycle: centriole biogenesis  duplication and inherent asymmetries,centrosomes are microtubule-organizing centres of animal cells. they influence the morphology of the microtubule cytoskeleton  function as the base for the primary cilium and serve as a nexus for important signalling pathways. at the core of a typical centrosome are two cylindrical microtubule-based structures termed centrioles  which recruit a matrix of associated pericentriolar material. cells begin the cell cycle with exactly one centrosome  and the duplication of centrioles is constrained such that it occurs only once per cell cycle and at a specific site in the cell. as a result of this duplication mechanism  the two centrioles differ in age and maturity  and thus have different functions; for example  the older of the two centrioles can initiate the formation of a ciliary axoneme. we discuss spatial aspects of the centrosome duplication cycle  the mechanism of centriole assembly and the possible consequences of the inherent asymmetry of centrioles and centrosomes.
1372,human embryonic stem cells with biological and epigenetic characteristics similar to those of mouse escs.,human and mouse embryonic stem cells (escs) are derived from blastocyst-stage embryos but have very different biological properties  and molecular analyses suggest that the pluripotent state of human escs isolated so far corresponds to that of mouse-derived epiblast stem cells (episcs). here we rewire the identity of conventional human escs into a more immature state that extensively shares defining features with pluripotent mouse escs. this was achieved by ectopic induction of oct4  klf4  and klf2 factors combined with lif and inhibitors of glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (gsk3beta) and mitogen-activated protein kinase (erk1/2) pathway. forskolin  a protein kinase a pathway agonist which can induce klf4 and klf2 expression  transiently substitutes for the requirement for ectopic transgene expression. in contrast to conventional human escs  these epigenetically converted cells have growth properties  an x-chromosome activation state (xaxa)  a gene expression profile  and a signaling pathway dependence that are highly similar to those of mouse escs. finally  the same growth conditions allow the derivation of human induced pluripotent stem (ips) cells with similar properties as mouse ips cells. the generation of validated "naïve" human escs will allow the molecular dissection of a previously undefined pluripotent state in humans and may open up new opportunities for patient-specific  disease-relevant research.
1374,heterotopic of bone marrow. analysis of precursor cells for osteogenic and hematopoietic tissues.,in semisyngeneic heterotopic bone marrow transplants the donor or recipient origin of cells of osteogenic and hematopoietic tissues was identified by chromosome markers (t6) and by reverse transplantation into the initial donor line. in syngeneic and semisyngeneic grafts of bone marrow under the renal capsule bone and bone marrow are formed. in allogeneic grafts only bone is formed; this bone is subsequently resorbed. in 14-month semisyngeneic transplants the bone marrow consists of recipient cells. this is true for both the proliferating pool and the stem cells of hematopoietic tissue. at the same time  osteogenic precursor cells and bone tissue in these transplants are of donor origin. a discussion is presented of the interrelationship between determinated osteogenic precursor cells (preosteoblasts) and hematopoietic stem cells (or their descendants) in which osteogenesis is inducible.
1376,frailty syndrome: a transitional state in a dynamic process,frailty has long been considered synonymous with disability and comorbidity  to be highly prevalent in old age and to confer a high risk for falls  hospitalization and mortality. however  it is becoming recognized that frailty may be a distinct clinical syndrome with a biological basis. the frailty process appears to be a transitional state in the dynamic progression from robustness to functional decline. during this process  total physiological reserves decrease and become less likely to be sufficient for the maintenance and repair of the ageing body. central to the clinical concept of frailty is that no single altered system alone defines it  but that multiple systems are involved. clinical consensus regarding the phenotype which constitutes frailty  drawing upon the opinions of numerous authors  shows the characteristics to include wasting (loss of both muscle mass and strength and weight loss)  loss of endurance  decreased balance and mobility  slowed performance  relative inactivity and  potentially  decreased cognitive function. frailty is a distinct entity easily recognized by clinicians  with multiple manifestations and with no single symptom being sufficient or essential in its presentation. manifestations include appearance (consistent or not with age)  nutritional status (thin  weight loss)  subjective health rating (health perception)  performance (cognition  fatigue)  sensory/physical impairments (vision  hearing  strength) and current care (medication  hospital). although the early stages of the frailty process may be clinically silent  when depleted reserves reach an aggregate threshold leading to serious vulnerability  the syndrome may become detectable by looking at clinical  functional  behavioral and biological markers. thus  a better understanding of these clinical changes and their underlying mechanisms  beginning in the pre-frail state  may confirm the impression held by many geriatricians that increasing frailty is distinguishable from ageing and in consequence is potentially reversible. we therefore provide an update of the physiopathology and clinical and biological characteristics of the frailty process and speculate on possible preventative approaches.
1378,aspirin in the chemoprevention of colorectal neoplasia: an overview.,considerable evidence supports the effectiveness of aspirin for chemoprevention of colorectal cancer (crc) in addition to its well-established benefits in the prevention of vascular disease. epidemiologic studies have consistently observed an inverse association between aspirin use and risk of crc. a recent pooled analysis of a long-term posttrial follow-up of nearly 14 000 patients from four randomized  cardiovascular disease prevention trials showed that daily aspirin treatment for about five years was associated with a 34% reduction in 20-year crc mortality. a separate metaanalysis of nearly 3 000 patients with a history of colorectal adenoma or cancer in four randomized adenoma prevention trials showed that aspirin reduced the occurrence of advanced adenomas by 28% and any adenoma by 17%. aspirin has also been shown to be beneficial in a clinical trial of patients with lynch syndrome  a hereditary crc syndrome; in those treated with aspirin for at least two years  there was a 50% or more reduction in the risk of crc commencing five years after randomization and after aspirin had been discontinued. a few observational studies have shown an increase in survival among patients with crc who use aspirin. taken together  these findings strengthen the case for consideration of long-term aspirin use in crc prevention. despite these compelling data  there is a lack of consensus about the balance of risks and benefits associated with long-term aspirin use  particularly in low-risk populations. the optimal dose to use for cancer prevention and the precise mechanism underlying aspirin's anticancer effect require further investigation.
1380,human cyclin a is required for mitosis until mid prophase,we have used microinjection and time-lapse video microscopy to study the role of cyclin a in mitosis. we have injected purified  active cyclin a/cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (cdk2) into synchronized cells at specific points in the cell cycle and assayed its effect on cell division. we find that cyclin a/cdk2 will drive g2 phase cells into mitosis within 30 min of microinjection  up to 4 h before control cells enter mitosis. often this premature mitosis is abnormal; the chromosomes do not completely condense and daughter cells fuse. remarkably  microinjecting cyclin a/cdk2 into s phase cells has no effect on progress through the following g2 phase or mitosis. in complementary experiments we have microinjected the amino terminus of p21cip1/waf1/sdi1 (p21n) into cells to inhibit cyclin a/cdk2 activity. we find that p21n will prevent s phase or g2 phase cells from entering mitosis  and will cause early prophase cells to return to interphase. these results suggest that cyclin a/cdk2 is a rate-limiting component required for entry into mitosis  and for progress through mitosis until late prophase. they also suggest that cyclin a/cdk2 may be the target of the recently described prophase checkpoint.
1382,influence of smoking cessation after diagnosis of early stage lung cancer on prognosis: systematic review of observational studies with meta-analysis,objective to systematically review the evidence that smoking cessation after diagnosis of a primary lung tumour affects prognosis. design systematic review with meta-analysis. data sources cinahl (from 1981)  embase (from 1980)  medline (from 1966)  web of science (from 1966)  central (from 1977) to december 2008  and reference lists of included studies. study selection randomised controlled trials or observational longitudinal studies that measured the effect of quitting smoking after diagnosis of lung cancer on prognostic outcomes  regardless of stage at presentation or tumour histology  were included. data extraction two researchers independently identified studies for inclusion and extracted data. estimates were combined by using a random effects model  and the i(2) statistic was used to examine heterogeneity. life tables were used to model five year survival for early stage non-small cell lung cancer and limited stage small cell lung cancer  using death rates for continuing smokers and quitters obtained from this review. results in 9/10 included studies  most patients studied were diagnosed as having an early stage lung tumour. continued smoking was associated with a significantly increased risk of all cause mortality (hazard ratio 2.94  95% confidence interval 1.15 to 7.54) and recurrence (1.86  1.01 to 3.41) in early stage non-small cell lung cancer and of all cause mortality (1.86  1.33 to 2.59)  development of a second primary tumour (4.31  1.09 to 16.98)  and recurrence (1.26  1.06 to 1.50) in limited stage small cell lung cancer. no study contained data on the effect of quitting smoking on cancer specific mortality or on development of a second primary tumour in non-small cell lung cancer. life table modelling on the basis of these data estimated 33% five year survival in 65 year old patients with early stage non-small cell lung cancer who continued to smoke compared with 70% in those who quit smoking. in limited stage small cell lung cancer  an estimated 29% of continuing smokers would survive for five years compared with 63% of quitters on the basis of the data from this review. conclusions this review provides preliminary evidence that smoking cessation after diagnosis of early stage lung cancer improves prognostic outcomes. from life table modelling  the estimated number of deaths prevented is larger than would be expected from reduction of cardiorespiratory deaths after smoking cessation  so most of the mortality gain is likely to be due to reduced cancer progression. these findings indicate that offering smoking cessation treatment to patients presenting with early stage lung cancer may be beneficial.
1384,sex differences in mortality following acute coronary syndromes.,context conflicting information exists about whether sex differences modulate short-term mortality following acute coronary syndromes (acs). objectives to investigate the relationship between sex and 30-day mortality in acs  and to determine whether this relationship was modified by clinical syndrome or coronary anatomy using a large database across the spectrum of acs and adjusting for potentially confounding clinical covariates. design  setting  and participants a convenience sample of patients pooled from 11 independent  international  randomized acs clinical trials between 1993 and 2006 whose databases are maintained at the duke clinical research institute  durham  north carolina. of 136 247 patients  38 048 (28%) were women; 102 004 (26% women) with st-segment elevation myocardial infarction (stemi)  14 466 (29% women) with non-stemi (nstemi)  and 19 777 (40% women) with unstable angina. main outcome measure thirty-day mortality following acs. results thirty-day mortality was 9.6% in women and 5.3% in men (odds ratio [or]  1.91; 95% confidence interval [ci]  1.83-2.00). after multivariable adjustment  mortality was not significantly different between women and men (adjusted or  1.06; 95% ci  0.99-1.15). a significant sex by type of acs interaction was demonstrated (p < .001). in stemi  30-day mortality was higher among women (adjusted or  1.15; 95% ci  1.06-1.24)  whereas in nstemi (adjusted or  0.77; 95% ci  0.63-0.95) and unstable angina  mortality was lower among women (adjusted or  0.55; 95% ci  0.43-0.70). in a cohort of 35 128 patients with angiographic data  women more often had nonobstructive (15% vs 8%) and less often had 2-vessel (25% vs 28%) and 3-vessel (23% vs 26%) coronary disease  regardless of acs type. after additional adjustment for angiographic disease severity  30-day mortality among women was not significantly different than men  regardless of acs type. the relationship between sex and 30-day mortality was similar across the levels of angiographic disease severity (p for interaction = .70). conclusions sex-based differences existed in 30-day mortality among patients with acs and vary depending on clinical presentation. however  these differences appear to be largely explained by clinical differences at presentation and severity of angiographically documented disease.
1386,identifying and characterizing interplay between hepatitis b virus x protein and smc5/6,hepatitis b x protein (hbx) plays an essential role in the hepatitis b virus (hbv) replication cycle  but the function of hbx has been elusive until recently. it was recently shown that transcription from the hbv genome (covalently-closed circular dna  cccdna) is inhibited by the structural maintenance of chromosome 5/6 complex (smc5/6)  and that a key function of hbx is to redirect the dna-damage binding protein 1 (ddb1) e3 ubiquitin ligase to target this complex for degradation. by doing so  hbx alleviates transcriptional repression by smc5/6 and stimulates hbv gene expression. in this review  we discuss in detail how the interplay between hbx and smc5/6 was identified and characterized. we also discuss what is known regarding the repression of cccdna transcription by smc5/6  the timing of hbx expression  and the potential role of hbx in promoting hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc).
1388,long-term follow-up of cervical disease in women screened by cytology and hpv testing: results from the hart study,background several studies have shown that testing for high-risk human papillomavirus (hpv) types results in an improved sensitivity for cin2+  compared with cytology  although with a somewhat lower specificity. methods we obtained follow-up results  with at least one smear after participation in the hart study  which compared hpv testing (hc-ii) with cytology as a primary screening modality. results with a median follow-up of 6 years  42 additional cases of cin2+ were identified; women who were hpv positive at baseline were more likely to develop cin2+ than those who were hpv negative (hazard ratio (hr) 17.2; 95% confidence interval (ci) (9.3-31.6)) and the risk increased with increasing viral load. compared with hpv-negative women (relative light unit (rlu) <1)  the hr (95% ci) was 5.4 (1.6  18.2) for 1-10 rlu and 25.5 (13.6  47.9) for rlu > or = 10. positive cytology (borderline or worse compared with negative) was also predictive of developing cin2  although to a lesser extent (hr 8.7; 95% ci (4.5-17.1)). only one case of cin3 and three cases of cin2 were found in women who showed a positive cytology result but were hpv negative at baseline. conclusion after 5 years of follow-up  cin2+ occurred in 0.23% of women who were hpv negative at baseline compared with 0.48% of women who showed a negative cytology result  indicating a much longer low-risk interval for cin2+ after hpv testing.
1390,a century of cholesterol and coronaries: from plaques to genes to statins,one-fourth of all deaths in industrialized countries result from coronary heart disease. a century of research has revealed the essential causative agent: cholesterol-carrying low-density lipoprotein (ldl). ldl is controlled by specific receptors (ldlrs) in liver that remove it from blood. mutations that eliminate ldlrs raise ldl and cause heart attacks in childhood  whereas mutations that raise ldlrs reduce ldl and diminish heart attacks. if we are to eliminate coronary disease  lowering ldl should be the primary goal. effective means to achieve this goal are currently available. the key questions are: who to treat  when to treat  and how long to treat.
1392,genetic disruption of aurora b uncovers an essential role for aurora c during early mammalian development.,mitosis is controlled by multiple kinases that drive cell cycle progression and prevent chromosome mis-segregation. aurora kinase b interacts with survivin  borealin and incenp to form the chromosomal passenger complex (cpc)  which is involved in the regulation of microtubule-kinetochore attachments and cytokinesis. whereas genetic ablation of survivin  borealin or incenp results in early lethality at the morula stage  we show here that aurora b is dispensable for cpc function during early cell divisions and aurora b-null embryos are normally implanted. this is due to a crucial function of aurora c during these early embryonic cycles. expression of aurora c decreases during late blastocyst stages resulting in post-implantation defects in aurora b-null embryos. these defects correlate with abundant prometaphase figures and apoptotic cell death of the aurora b-deficient inner cell mass. conditional deletion of aurora b in somatic cells that do not express aurora c results in chromosomal misalignment and lack of chromosome segregation. re-expression of wild-type  but not kinase-dead  aurora c rescues this defect  suggesting functional overlap between these two kinases. finally  aurora b-null cells partially arrest in the presence of nocodazole  suggesting that this kinase is not essential for the spindle assembly checkpoint.
1394,e2f-6: a novel member of the e2f family is an inhibitor of e2f-dependent transcription,the e2f family of transcription factors are essential for the regulation of genes required for appropriate progression through the cell cycle. five members of the e2f family have been previously reported  namely e2f1-5. all five are key elements in transcriptional regulation of essential genes  and they can be divided into two functional groups  those that induce s-phase progression when overexpressed in quiescent cells (e2fs 1–3)  and those that do not (e2fs 4–5). here  we describe the identification of a novel member of this family  which we refer to as e2f-6. e2f-6 shares significant homology with e2fs 1–5  especially within the dna binding  heterodimerization and marked box domains. unlike e2fs 1–5  e2f-6 lacks a transactivation and a pocket protein binding domain  hence  forms a unique third group within the e2f family. e2f-6 is a nuclear protein that can form heterodimers with the dp proteins (both dp-1 and dp-2) in vitro and in vivo. our results show that the complex formed between e2f-6 and the dp proteins  possesses high dna binding activity  displaying a preference for a tttcccgc e2f recognition site  which is slightly different to the e2f consensus site derived from the e2 promoter (tttcgcgc). in contrast to the other members of the e2f family  ectopic expression of e2f-6 inhibits transcription from promoters possessing e2f recognition sites rather than activating transcription. in addition  overexpression of e2f-6 suppresses the transactivational effects of co-expression of e2f-1 and dp-1. the inhibitory effect of e2f-6 is dependent on its dna binding activity and its ability to form heterodimers with the dps. interestingly  ectopic expression of e2f-6 leads to accumulation of cells in s-phase. our data suggest that e2f-6 expression delays the exit from s-phase rather than inducing s-phase  which further emphasizes the functional difference between e2f-6 and the previously known e2f family members.
1396,lessons from sudden coronary death: a comprehensive morphological classification scheme for atherosclerotic lesions.,this review will reconsider the current paradigm for understanding the critical  final steps in the progression of atherosclerotic lesions. that scheme  largely an outgrowth of observations of autopsy tissues by davies and colleagues 1 2 asserts that the cause of death in atherosclerotic coronary artery disease is rupture of an advanced atherosclerotic lesion. although this assumption may be partially true  recent autopsy studies suggest that it is incomplete. to reconsider this paradigm  we reexamined the morphological classification scheme for lesions proposed by the american heart association (aha).3 4 this scheme is difficult to use for 2 reasons. first  it uses a very long list of roman numerals modified by letter codes that are difficult to remember. second  it implies an orderly  linear pattern of lesion progression. this tends to be ambiguous  because it is not clear whether there is a single sequence of events during the progression of all lesions. we have therefore tried to devise a simpler classification scheme that is consistent with the aha categories but is easier to use  able to deal with a wide array of morphological variations  and not overly burdened by mechanistic implications. the current paradigm is based on the belief that type iv lesions  or “atheromas ” described by the aha are stable because the fatty  necrotic core is contained by a smooth muscle cell–rich fibrous cap. virchow’s analysis5 in 1858 pointed out that historically  the term “atheroma” refers to a dermal cyst (“grutzbalg”)  a fatty …
1398,lessons from more than 80 structures of the glua2 ligand-binding domain in complex with agonists  antagonists and allosteric modulators.,ionotropic glutamate receptors (iglurs) constitute a family of ligand-gated ion channels that are essential for mediating fast synaptic transmission in the central nervous system. these receptors play an important role for the development and function of the nervous system  and are essential in learning and memory. however  iglurs are also implicated in or have causal roles for several brain disorders  e.g. epilepsy  alzheimer's disease  parkinson's disease and schizophrenia. their involvement in neurological diseases has stimulated widespread interest in their structure and function. since the first publication in 1998 of the structure of a recombinant soluble protein comprising the ligand-binding domain of glua2 extensive studies have afforded numerous crystal structures of wildtype and mutant proteins including different ligands. the structural information obtained combined with functional data have led to models for receptor activation and desensitization by agonists  inhibition by antagonists and block of desensitization by positive allosteric modulators. furthermore  the structural and functional studies have formed a powerful platform for the design of new selective compounds.
1400,identification of an anti-inflammatory protein from faecalibacterium prausnitzii  a commensal bacterium deficient in crohn's disease.,background crohn's disease (cd)-associated dysbiosis is characterised by a loss of faecalibacterium prausnitzii  whose culture supernatant exerts an anti-inflammatory effect both in vitro and in vivo. however  the chemical nature of the anti-inflammatory compounds has not yet been determined. methods peptidomic analysis using mass spectrometry was applied to f. prausnitzii supernatant. anti-inflammatory effects of identified peptides were tested in vitro directly on intestinal epithelial cell lines and on cell lines transfected with a plasmid construction coding for the candidate protein encompassing these peptides. in vivo  the cdna of the candidate protein was delivered to the gut by recombinant lactic acid bacteria to prevent dinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (dnbs)-colitis in mice. results the seven peptides  identified in the f. prausnitzii culture supernatants  derived from a single microbial anti-inflammatory molecule (mam)  a protein of 15 kda  and comprising 53% of non-polar residues. this last feature prevented the direct characterisation of the putative anti-inflammatory activity of mam-derived peptides. transfection of mam cdna in epithelial cells led to a significant decrease in the activation of the nuclear factor (nf)-κb pathway with a dose-dependent effect. finally  the use of a food-grade bacterium  lactococcus lactis  delivering a plasmid encoding mam was able to alleviate dnbs-induced colitis in mice. conclusions a 15 kda protein with anti-inflammatory properties is produced by f. prausnitzii  a commensal bacterium involved in cd pathogenesis. this protein is able to inhibit the nf-κb pathway in intestinal epithelial cells and to prevent colitis in an animal model.
1402,a feasibility study for a randomised controlled trial of the positive reappraisal coping intervention  a novel supportive technique for recurrent miscarriage,introduction recurrent miscarriage (rm) is diagnosed when a woman has had three or more miscarriages. increased levels of distress and anxiety are common during the waiting period of any subsequent pregnancies  posing a significant threat to psychological well-being. however  only limited support and therapy are available for these women  and many are left to cope alone. the positive reappraisal coping intervention (prci) is a novel self-administered supportive technique which has been shown to be effective in patients awaiting the outcome of in vitro fertilisation treatment. the primary objective of this study is to assess the feasibility and effectiveness of the prci in improving quality of life in the difficult waiting period which women with previous rm endure before an ongoing pregnancy can be confirmed. methods and analysis a randomised controlled trial (rct) feasibility study will establish the viability of conducting a multicentre rct to definitively test the effects of the prci on the psychological well-being of women who have experienced rm during the initial waiting period of a subsequent pregnancy. a second component consists of a qualitative process evaluation exploring the initial experience of pregnancy following repeated miscarriages. participants (n=50) will be randomised into one of two groups. the prci intervention group will receive the prci card and weekly questionnaires to assess their psychological well-being during the waiting period of their new pregnancy. the non-intervention group will be asked to complete the same weekly questionnaires. the qualitative process analysis will employ semistructured interviews (n=20) to address relevant aspects of the study objectives. ethics and dissemination ethics approval has been obtained from the national research ethics service committee south central-hampshire a. participating centres have given national health service r&d approval. study findings will be disseminated through peer reviewed journals  national and international conferences and lay user groups. trial registration number isrctn43571276. this study was registered with the isrctn 18/02/2014 following adoption onto the united kingdom clinical research network (ukcrn) portfolio. recruitment of the first participant occurred 04/02/2014.
1404,classification  functions  and clinical relevance of extracellular vesicles.,both eukaryotic and prokaryotic cells release small  phospholipid-enclosed vesicles into their environment. why do cells release vesicles? initial studies showed that eukaryotic vesicles are used to remove obsolete cellular molecules. although this release of vesicles is beneficial to the cell  the vesicles can also be a danger to their environment  for instance in blood  where vesicles can provide a surface supporting coagulation. evidence is accumulating that vesicles are cargo containers used by eukaryotic cells to exchange biomolecules as transmembrane receptors and genetic information. because also bacteria communicate to each other via extracellular vesicles  the intercellular communication via extracellular cargo carriers seems to be conserved throughout evolution  and therefore vesicles are likely to be a highly efficient  robust  and economic manner of exchanging information between cells. furthermore  vesicles protect cells from accumulation of waste or drugs  they contribute to physiology and pathology  and they have a myriad of potential clinical applications  ranging from biomarkers to anticancer therapy. because vesicles may pass the blood-brain barrier  they can perhaps even be considered naturally occurring liposomes. unfortunately  pathways of vesicle release and vesicles themselves are also being used by tumors and infectious diseases to facilitate spreading  and to escape from immune surveillance. in this review  the different types  nomenclature  functions  and clinical relevance of vesicles will be discussed.
1406,fascin protein is critical for transforming growth factor β protein-induced invasion and filopodia formation in spindle-shaped tumor cells.,fascin  an actin-bundling protein overexpressed in all carcinomas  has been associated with poor prognosis  shorter survival  and more metastatic diseases. it is believed that fascin facilitates tumor metastasis by promoting the formation of invasive membrane protrusions. however  the mechanisms by which fascin is overexpressed in tumors are not clear. tgfβ is a cytokine secreted by tumor and mesenchymal cells and promotes metastasis in many late stage tumors. the pro-metastasis mechanisms of tgfβ remain to be fully elucidated. here we demonstrated that tgfβ induced fascin expression in spindle-shaped tumor cells through the canonical smad-dependent pathway. fascin was critical for tgfβ-promoted filopodia formation  migration  and invasion in spindle tumor cells. more importantly  fascin expression significantly correlates with tgfβ1 and tgfβ receptor i levels in a cohort of primary breast tumor samples. our results indicate that elevated tgfβ level in the tumor microenvironment may be responsible for fascin overexpression in some of the metastatic tumors. our data also suggest that fascin could play a central role in tgfβ-promoted tumor metastasis.
1408,whole-body mr vascular screening detects unsuspected concomitant vascular disease in coronary heart disease patients,coronary heart disease (chd) patients often show atherosclerotic vascular disease in other vascular territories. we evaluated how often whole-body mr imaging detects concomitant arterial pathologies in chd patients  and how often these pathologies were not known to the patients previously. of 4 814 participants in the population-based heinz nixdorf recall study  327 reported chd (i.e.  previous coronary bypass surgery  angioplasty); of those  160 patients (mean age 66.4 years) were examined using mr of the brain  the heart (excluding the coronary arteries)  and whole-body mr angiography. the prevalence of each vascular pathology was assessed  correlated to the others and compared to patients’ histories. of the 160 chd patients  16 (10%) showed mr signs of stroke  and 77 (48.1%) had a stenosis >50% in at least one extracerebral peripheral artery (other than the coronaries)  including 28 (17.5%) with relevant renal artery stenoses  and 20 (12.5%) with relevant extracerebral internal carotid artery stenoses. false negative histories were reported in 12 of 81 cases with myocardial infarctions  and in 11 of 16 cases with cerebrovascular infarctions. this whole-body atherosclerosis mr screening program allows previously unknown concomitant vascular disease to be detected in coronary heart disease patients. its prospective value should be assessed in further studies.
1410,profiling of residual breast cancers after neoadjuvant chemotherapy identifies dusp4 deficiency as a mechanism of drug resistance,neoadjuvant chemotherapy (nac) induces a pathological complete response (pcr) in ∼30% of patients with breast cancer. however  many patients have residual cancer after chemotherapy  which correlates with a higher risk of metastatic recurrence and poorer outcome than those who achieve a pcr. we hypothesized that molecular profiling of tumors after nac would identify genes associated with drug resistance. digital transcript counting was used to profile surgically resected breast cancers after nac. low concentrations of dual specificity protein phosphatase 4 (dusp4)  an erk phosphatase  correlated with high post-nac tumor cell proliferation and with basal-like breast cancer (blbc) status. blbc had higher dusp4 promoter methylation and gene expression patterns of ras-erk pathway activation relative to other breast cancer subtypes. dusp4 overexpression increased chemotherapy-induced apoptosis  whereas dusp4 depletion dampened the response to chemotherapy. reduced dusp4 expression in primary tumors after nac was associated with treatment-refractory high ki-67 scores and shorter recurrence-free survival. finally  inhibition of mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (mek) synergized with docetaxel treatment in blbc xenografts. thus  dusp4 downregulation activates the ras-erk pathway in blbc  resulting in an attenuated response to anti-cancer chemotherapy.
1412,synchronization of diffusively-connected nonlinear systems: results based on contractions with respect to general norms,contraction theory provides an elegant way to analyze the behavior of certain nonlinear dynamical systems. in this paper  we discuss the application of contraction to synchronization of diffusively interconnected components described by nonlinear differential equations. we provide estimates of convergence of the difference in states between components  in the cases of line  complete  and star graphs  and cartesian products of such graphs. we base our approach on contraction theory  using matrix measures derived from norms that are not induced by inner products. such norms are the most appropriate in many applications  but proofs cannot rely upon lyapunov-like linear matrix inequalities  and different techniques  such as the use of the perron-frobenious theorem in the cases of l1 or l∞ norms  must be introduced.
1414,multisite optical recording of excitability in the enteric nervous system.,a multisite optical recording technique consisting of an array of 464 photodiodes was used to measure dynamic changes in transmembrane potentials (vm) of guinea-pig and mouse enteric neurones stained with the voltage-sensitive dye di-8-anepps. optical recordings of vm changes in enteric neurones which were evoked by depolarizing current pulses or synaptic activation mirrored the vm changes measured intracellularly in the same neurone. action potentials had fractional change in fluorescence of -0.09 +/- 0.06% and their peak to peak noise level was 20 +/- 14% of the action potential amplitude. optical recordings after electrical stimulation of interganglionic nerve strands revealed slow epsps  nicotinergic supra- and subthreshold fast epsps as well as propagation of action potentials along interganglionic strands. local application of acetylcholine onto a single ganglion induced reproducibly and dose dependently action potential discharge demonstrating the feasibility of neuropharmacological studies. the optical mapping made it possible to record action potentials simultaneously in a large number of neurones with high spatiotemporal resolution that is unattainable by conventional techniques. this technique presents a powerful tool to study excitability spread within enteric circuits and to assess differential activation of enteric populations in response to a number of stimuli which modulate neuronal activity directly or through synaptic mechanisms.
1416,margination of white blood cells in microcapillary flow.,margination of white blood cells (wbcs) towards vessel walls is an essential precondition for their efficient adhesion to the vascular endothelium. we perform numerical simulations with a two-dimensional blood flow model to investigate the dependence of wbc margination on hydrodynamic interactions of blood cells with the vessel walls  as well as on their collective behavior and deformability. we find wbc margination to be optimal in intermediate ranges of red blood cell (rbc) volume fractions and flow rates  while  beyond these ranges  it is substantially attenuated. rbc aggregation enhances wbc margination  while wbc deformability reduces it. these results are combined in state diagrams  which identify wbc margination for a wide range of flow and cell suspension conditions.
1418,functional coupling of rnap ii transcription to spliceosome assembly.,the pathway of gene expression in higher eukaryotes involves a highly complex network of physical and functional interactions among the different machines involved in each step of the pathway. here we established an efficient in vitro system to determine how rna polymerase ii (rnap ii) transcription is functionally coupled to pre-mrna splicing. strikingly  our data show that nascent pre-messenger rna (pre-mrna) synthesized by rnap ii is immediately and quantitatively directed into the spliceosome assembly pathway. in contrast  nascent pre-mrna synthesized by t7 rna polymerase is quantitatively assembled into the nonspecific h complex  which consists of heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein (hnrnp) proteins and is inhibitory for spliceosome assembly. consequently  rnap ii transcription results in a dramatic increase in both the kinetics of splicing and overall yield of spliced mrna relative to that observed for t7 transcription. we conclude that rnap ii mediates the functional coupling of transcription to splicing by directing the nascent pre-mrna into spliceosome assembly  thereby bypassing interaction of the pre-mrna with the inhibitory hnrnp proteins.
1420,platelet glycoprotein iib/iiia inhibitors reduce mortality in diabetic patients with non-st-segment-elevation acute coronary syndromes.,background diabetes mellitus is a major risk factor for adverse outcomes after acute coronary syndromes (acs). because this disease may be associated with increased platelet aggregation  we investigated whether diabetic patients with acs derive particular benefit from platelet glycoprotein (gp) iib/iiia receptor inhibition. methods and results we performed a meta-analysis of the diabetic populations enrolled in the 6 large-scale platelet gp iib/iiia inhibitor acs trials: prism  prism-plus  paragon a  paragon b  pursuit  and gusto iv. among 6458 diabetic patients  platelet gp iib/iiia inhibition was associated with a significant mortality reduction at 30 days  from 6.2% to 4.6% (or 0.74; 95% ci 0.59 to 0.92; p=0.007). conversely  23 072 nondiabetic patients had no survival benefit (3.0% versus 3.0%). the interaction between platelet gp iib/iiia inhibition and diabetic status was statistically significant (p=0.036). among 1279 diabetic patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (pci) during index hospitalization  the use of these agents was associated with a mortality reduction at 30 days from 4.0% to 1.2% (or 0.30; 95% ci 0.14 to 0.69; p=0.002). conclusions this meta-analysis  including the entire large-scale trial experience of intravenous platelet gp iib/iiia inhibitors for the medical management of non-st-segment-elevation acs  shows that these agents may significantly reduce mortality at 30 days in diabetic patients. although not based on a randomized assessment  the survival benefit appears to be of greater magnitude in patients undergoing pci. therefore  the use of platelet gp iib/iiia inhibitors should be strongly considered in diabetic patients with acs.
1422,a structural basis for kinetochore recruitment of the ndc80 complex via two distinct centromere receptors.,the ndc80 complex is the key microtubule-binding element of the kinetochore. in contrast to the well-characterized interaction of ndc80-nuf2 heads with microtubules  little is known about how the spc24-25 heterodimer connects to centromeric chromatin. here  we present molecular details of spc24-25 in complex with the histone-fold protein cnn1/cenp-t illustrating how this connection ultimately links microtubules to chromosomes. the conserved ndc80 receptor motif of cnn1 is bound as an α helix in a hydrophobic cleft at the interface between spc24 and spc25. point mutations that disrupt the ndc80-cnn1 interaction also abrogate binding to the mtw1 complex and are lethal in yeast. we identify a cnn1-related motif in the dsn1 subunit of the mtw1 complex  necessary for ndc80 binding and essential for yeast growth. replacing this region with the cnn1 peptide restores viability demonstrating functionality of the ndc80-binding module in different molecular contexts. finally  phosphorylation of the cnn1 n-terminus coordinates the binding of the two competing ndc80 interaction partners. together  our data provide structural insights into the modular binding mechanism of the ndc80 complex to its centromere recruiters.
1424,the smc5/6 complex maintains telomere length in alt cancer cells through sumoylation of telomere-binding proteins,most cancer cells activate telomerase to elongate telomeres and achieve unlimited replicative potential. some cancer cells cannot activate telomerase and use telomere homologous recombination (hr) to elongate telomeres  a mechanism termed alternative lengthening of telomeres (alt). a hallmark of alt cells is the recruitment of telomeres to pml bodies (termed apbs). here  we show that the smc5/6 complex localizes to apbs in alt cells and is required for targeting telomeres to apbs. the mms21 sumo ligase of the smc5/6 complex sumoylates multiple telomere-binding proteins  including trf1 and trf2. inhibition of trf1 or trf2 sumoylation prevents apb formation. depletion of smc5/6 subunits by rna interference inhibits telomere hr  causing telomere shortening and senescence in alt cells. thus  the smc5/6 complex facilitates telomere hr and elongation in alt cells by promoting apb formation through sumoylation of telomere-binding proteins.
1426,the ino80 chromatin remodeling complex in transcription  replication and repair.,the ino80 atpase is a member of the snf2 family of atpases and functions as an integral component of a multisubunit atp-dependent chromatin remodeling complex. although ino80 complexes from yeast and higher eukaryotes share a common core of conserved subunits  the complexes have diverged substantially during evolution and have acquired new subunits with apparently species-specific functions. recent studies have shown that the ino80 complex contributes to a wide variety of chromatin-dependent nuclear transactions  including transcription  dna repair and dna replication.
1428,kruppel-like factor 2 (klf2) regulates monocyte differentiation and functions in mbsa and il-1β-induced arthritis.,kruppel-like factor 2 (klf2) plays an important role in the regulation of a variety of immune cells  including monocytes. we have previously shown that klf2 inhibits proinflammatory activation of monocytes. however  the role of klf2 in arthritis is yet to be investigated. in the current study  we show that recruitment of significantly greater numbers of inflammatory subset of cd11b(+)f4/80(+)ly6c+ monocytes to the inflammatory sites in klf2 hemizygous mice compared to the wild type littermate controls. in parallel  inflammatory mediators  mcp-1  cox-2 and pai-1 were significantly up-regulated in bone marrow-derived monocytes isolated from klf2 hemizygous mice  in comparison to wild-type controls. methylated-bsa and il-1β-induced arthritis was more severe in klf2 hemizygous mice as compared to the littermate wild type controls. consistent with this observation  monocytes isolated from klf2 hemizygous mice showed an increased number of cells matured and differentiated towards osteoclastic lineage  potentially contributing to the severity of cartilage and bone damage in induced arthritic mice. the severity of arthritis was associated with the higher expression of proteins such as hsp60  hsp90 and mmp13 and attenuated levels of ppten  p21  p38 and hsp25/27 molecules in bone marrow cells of arthritic klf2 hemizygous mice compared to littermate wild type controls. the data provide new insights and evidences of klf2-mediated transcriptional regulation of arthritis via modulation of monocyte differentiation and function.
1430,sting and the innate immune response to nucleic acids in the cytosol,cytosolic detection of pathogen-derived nucleic acids is critical for the initiation of innate immune defense against diverse bacterial  viral and eukaryotic pathogens. conversely  inappropriate responses to cytosolic nucleic acids can produce severe autoimmune pathology. the host protein sting has been identified as a central signaling molecule in the innate immune response to cytosolic nucleic acids. sting seems to be especially critical for responses to cytosolic dna and the unique bacterial nucleic acids called 'cyclic dinucleotides'. here we discuss advances in the understanding of sting and highlight the many unresolved issues in the field.
1432,cyclooxygenase-dependent tumor growth through evasion of immunity,the mechanisms by which melanoma and other cancer cells evade anti-tumor immunity remain incompletely understood. here  we show that the growth of tumors formed by mutant braf(v600e) mouse melanoma cells in an immunocompetent host requires their production of prostaglandin e2  which suppresses immunity and fuels tumor-promoting inflammation. genetic ablation of cyclooxygenases (cox) or prostaglandin e synthases in braf(v600e) mouse melanoma cells  as well as in nras(g12d) melanoma or in breast or colorectal cancer cells  renders them susceptible to immune control and provokes a shift in the tumor inflammatory profile toward classic anti-cancer immune pathways. this mouse cox-dependent inflammatory signature is remarkably conserved in human cutaneous melanoma biopsies  arguing for cox activity as a driver of immune suppression across species. pre-clinical data demonstrate that inhibition of cox synergizes with anti-pd-1 blockade in inducing eradication of tumors  implying that cox inhibitors could be useful adjuvants for immune-based therapies in cancer patients.
1434,methylomic trajectories across human fetal brain development.,epigenetic processes play a key role in orchestrating transcriptional regulation during development. the importance of dna methylation in fetal brain development is highlighted by the dynamic expression of de novo dna methyltransferases during the perinatal period and neurodevelopmental deficits associated with mutations in the methyl-cpg binding protein 2 (mecp2) gene. however  our knowledge about the temporal changes to the epigenome during fetal brain development has  to date  been limited. we quantified genome-wide patterns of dna methylation at ∼ 400 000 sites in 179 human fetal brain samples (100 male  79 female) spanning 23 to 184 d post-conception. we identified highly significant changes in dna methylation across fetal brain development at >7% of sites  with an enrichment of loci becoming hypomethylated with fetal age. sites associated with developmental changes in dna methylation during fetal brain development were significantly underrepresented in promoter regulatory regions but significantly overrepresented in regions flanking cpg islands (shores and shelves) and gene bodies. highly significant differences in dna methylation were observed between males and females at a number of autosomal sites  with a small number of regions showing sex-specific dna methylation trajectories across brain development. weighted gene comethylation network analysis (wgcna) revealed discrete modules of comethylated loci associated with fetal age that are significantly enriched for genes involved in neurodevelopmental processes. this is  to our knowledge  the most extensive study of dna methylation across human fetal brain development to date  confirming the prenatal period as a time of considerable epigenomic plasticity.
1436,depressive symptoms and physical decline in community-dwelling older persons.,context significant symptoms of depression are common in the older community-dwelling population. although depressive symptoms and disability may commonly occur in the same person  whether depressive symptoms contribute to subsequent functional decline has not been elucidated. objective to determine whether depressive symptoms in older persons increase the risk of subsequent decline in physical function as measured by objective performance-based tests. design a 4-year prospective cohort study. setting the communities of iowa and washington counties  iowa. participants a total of 1286 persons aged 71 years and older who completed a short battery of physical performance tests in 1988 and again 4 years later. main outcome measures baseline depressive symptoms were assessed by the center for epidemiological studies depression scale. physical performance tests included an assessment of standing balance  a timed 2.4-m (8-ft) walk  and a timed test of 5 repetitions of rising from a chair and sitting down. results after adjustment for baseline performance score  health status  and sociodemographic factors  increasing levels of depressive symptoms were predictive of greater decline in physical performance over 4 years (odds ratio for decline in those with depressed mood vs those without  1.55; 95% confidence interval [ci]  1.02-2.34). even among those at the high end of the functional spectrum  who reported no disability  the severity of depressive symptoms predicted subsequent decline in physical performance (odds ratio for decline  1.03; 95% ci  1.00-1.08). conclusions this study provides evidence that older persons who report depressive symptoms are at higher risk of subsequent physical decline. these results suggest that prevention or reduction of depressed mood could play a role in reducing functional decline in older persons.
1438,prrsv receptors and their roles in virus infection,porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (prrsv) has a restricted cell tropism and prefers to invade well-differentiated cells of the monocyte/macrophage lineage  such as pulmonary alveolar macrophages and african green monkey kidney cell line ma-104 and its derivatives  such as marc-145  vero and cl-2621. prrsv infection of the host cells actually is a receptor-mediated endocytosis and replication process. the presence and absence of the cellular receptors decide whether the cell lines are permissive or non-permissive to prrsv infection. several prrsv non-permissive cell lines  such as bhk-21  pk-15 and cho-k1  have been shown to become sensitive to the virus infection upon expression of the recombinant receptor proteins. up to now  heparin sulfate  sialoadhesin  cd163  cd151 and vimentin have been identified as the important prrsv receptors via their involvement in virus attachment  internalization or uncoating. each receptor is characterized by the distribution in different cells  the function in virus different infection stages and the interaction model with the viral proteins or genes. joint forces of the receptors recently attract attentions due to the specific function. prrsv receptors have become the targets for designing the new anti-viral reagents or the recombinant cell lines used for isolating the viruses or developing more effective vaccines due to their more conserved sequences compared with the genetic variation of the virus. in this paper  the role of prrsv receptors and the molecular mechanism of the interaction between the virus and the receptors are reviewed.
1440,estimation of nuclear dna content in plants using flow cytometry,flow cytometry (fcm) using dna-selective fluorochromes is now the prevailing method for the measurement of nuclear dna content in plants. ease of sample preparation and high sample throughput make it generally better suited than other methods such as feulgen densitometry to estimate genome size  level of generative polyploidy  nuclear replication state and endopolyploidy (polysomaty). here we present four protocols for sample preparation (suspensions of intact cell nuclei) and describe the analysis of nuclear dna amounts using fcm. we consider the chemicals and equipment necessary  the measurement process  data analysis  and describe the most frequent problems encountered with plant material such as the interference of secondary metabolites. the purpose and requirement of internal and external standardization are discussed. the importance of using a correct terminology for dna amounts and genome size is underlined  and its basic principles are explained.
1442,role of cd28-b7 interactions in generation and maintenance of cd8 t cell memory.,although the role of cd28-b7 interaction in the activation of naive t cells is well established  its importance in the generation and maintenance of t cell memory is not well understood. in this study  we examined the requirement for cd28-b7 interactions in primary t cell activation and immune memory. ag-specific cd8 t cell responses were compared between wild-type (+/+) and cd28-deficient (cd28(-/-)) mice following an acute infection with lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (lcmv). during the primary response  there was a substantial activation and expansion of lcmv-specific cd8 t cells in both +/+ and cd28(-/-) mice. however  the magnitude of the primary cd8 t cell response to both dominant and subdominant lcmv ctl epitopes was approximately 2- to 3-fold lower in cd28(-/-) mice compared with +/+ mice; the lack of cd28-mediated costimulation did not lead to preferential suppression of cd8 t cell responses to the weaker subdominant epitopes. as seen in cd28(-/-) mice  blockade of b7-mediated costimulation by ctla4-ig treatment of +/+ mice also resulted in a 2-fold reduction in the anti-lcmv cd8 t cell responses. loss of cd28/b7 interactions did not significantly affect the generation and maintenance of cd8 t cell memory; the magnitude of cd8 t cell memory was approximately 2-fold lower in cd28(-/-) mice as compared with +/+ mice. further  in cd28(-/-) mice  lcmv-specific memory cd8 t cells showed normal homeostatic proliferation in vivo and also conferred protective immunity. therefore  cd28 signaling is not necessary for the proliferative renewal and maintenance of memory cd8 t cells.
1444,acellular pertussis vaccines protect against disease but fail to prevent infection and transmission in a nonhuman primate model.,pertussis is a highly contagious respiratory illness caused by the bacterial pathogen bordetella pertussis. pertussis rates in the united states have been rising and reached a 50-y high of 42 000 cases in 2012. although pertussis resurgence is not completely understood  we hypothesize that current acellular pertussis (ap) vaccines fail to prevent colonization and transmission. to test our hypothesis  infant baboons were vaccinated at 2  4  and 6 mo of age with ap or whole-cell pertussis (wp) vaccines and challenged with b. pertussis at 7 mo. infection was followed by quantifying colonization in nasopharyngeal washes and monitoring leukocytosis and symptoms. baboons vaccinated with ap were protected from severe pertussis-associated symptoms but not from colonization  did not clear the infection faster than naïve animals  and readily transmitted b. pertussis to unvaccinated contacts. vaccination with wp induced a more rapid clearance compared with naïve and ap-vaccinated animals. by comparison  previously infected animals were not colonized upon secondary infection. although all vaccinated and previously infected animals had robust serum antibody responses  we found key differences in t-cell immunity. previously infected animals and wp-vaccinated animals possess strong b. pertussis-specific t helper 17 (th17) memory and th1 memory  whereas ap vaccination induced a th1/th2 response instead. the observation that ap  which induces an immune response mismatched to that induced by natural infection  fails to prevent colonization or transmission provides a plausible explanation for the resurgence of pertussis and suggests that optimal control of pertussis will require the development of improved vaccines.
1446,acam2000™: the new smallpox vaccine for united states strategic national stockpile,smallpox was eradicated more than 30 years ago  but heightened concerns over bioterrorism have brought smallpox and smallpox vaccination back to the forefront. the previously licensed smallpox vaccine in the united states  dryvax (wyeth laboratories  inc.)  was highly effective  but the supply was insufficient to vaccinate the entire current us population. additionally  dryvax had a questionable safety profile since it consisted of a pool of vaccinia virus strains with varying degrees of virulence  and was grown on the skin of calves  an outdated technique that poses an unnecessary risk of contamination. the us government has therefore recently supported development of an improved live vaccinia virus smallpox vaccine. this initiative has resulted in the development of acam2000 (acambis  inc.)  a single plaque-purified vaccinia virus derivative of dryvax  aseptically propagated in cell culture. preclinical and clinical trials reported in 2008 demonstrated that acam2000 has comparable immunogenicity to that of dryvax  and causes a similar frequency of adverse events. furthermore  like dryvax  acam2000 vaccination has been shown by careful cardiac screening to result in an unexpectedly high rate of myocarditis and pericarditis. acam2000 received us food and drug administration (fda) approval in august 2007  and replaced dryvax for all smallpox vaccinations in february 2008. currently  over 200 million doses of acam2000 have been produced for the us strategic national stockpile. this review of acam2000 addresses the production  characterization  clinical trials  and adverse events associated with this new smallpox vaccine.
1448,rps14 haploinsufficiency causes a block in erythroid differentiation mediated by s100a8 and s100a9,impaired erythropoiesis in the deletion 5q (del(5q)) subtype of myelodysplastic syndrome (mds) has been linked to heterozygous deletion of rps14  which encodes the ribosomal protein small subunit 14. we generated mice with conditional inactivation of rps14 and demonstrated an erythroid differentiation defect that is dependent on the tumor suppressor protein p53 (encoded by trp53 in mice) and is characterized by apoptosis at the transition from polychromatic to orthochromatic erythroblasts. this defect resulted in age-dependent progressive anemia  megakaryocyte dysplasia and loss of hematopoietic stem cell (hsc) quiescence. as assessed by quantitative proteomics  mutant erythroblasts expressed higher levels of proteins involved in innate immune signaling  notably the heterodimeric s100 calcium-binding proteins s100a8 and s100a9. s100a8—whose expression was increased in mutant erythroblasts  monocytes and macrophages—is functionally involved in the erythroid defect caused by the rps14 deletion  as addition of recombinant s100a8 was sufficient to induce a differentiation defect in wild-type erythroid cells  and genetic inactivation of s100a8 expression rescued the erythroid differentiation defect of rps14-haploinsufficient hscs. our data link rps14 haploinsufficiency in del(5q) mds to activation of the innate immune system and induction of s100a8-s100a9 expression  leading to a p53-dependent erythroid differentiation defect.
1450,structure of the guanine nucleotide exchange factor sec7 domain of human arno and analysis of the interaction with arf gtpase,sec7-related guanine nucleotide exchange factors (gefs) initiate vesicle budding from the golgi membrane surface by converting the gtpase arf to a gtp-bound  membrane-associated form. here we report the crystal structure of the catalytic sec7 homology domain of arno  a human gef for arf1  determined at 2.2 angstroms resolution. the sec7 domain is an elongated  all-helical protein with a distinctive hydrophobic groove that is phylogenetically conserved. structure-based mutagenesis identifies the groove and an adjacent conserved loop as the arf-interacting surface. the sites of sec7 domain interaction on arf1 have subsequently been mapped  by protein footprinting experiments  to the switch 1 and switch 2 gtpase regions  leading to a model for the interaction between arf gtpases and sec7 domain exchange factors.
1452,rational extension of the ribosome biogenesis pathway using network-guided genetics,biogenesis of ribosomes is an essential cellular process conserved across all eukaryotes and is known to require >170 genes for the assembly  modification  and trafficking of ribosome components through multiple cellular compartments. despite intensive study  this pathway likely involves many additional genes. here  we employ network-guided genetics-an approach for associating candidate genes with biological processes that capitalizes on recent advances in functional genomic and proteomic studies-to computationally identify additional ribosomal biogenesis genes. we experimentally evaluated >100 candidate yeast genes in a battery of assays  confirming involvement of at least 15 new genes  including previously uncharacterized genes (ydl063c  yil091c  yor287c  yor006c/tsr3  yol022c/tsr4). we associate the new genes with specific aspects of ribosomal subunit maturation  ribosomal particle association  and ribosomal subunit nuclear export  and we identify genes specifically required for the processing of 5s  7s  20s  27s  and 35s rrnas. these results reveal new connections between ribosome biogenesis and mrna splicing and add >10% new genes-most with human orthologs-to the biogenesis pathway  significantly extending our understanding of a universally conserved eukaryotic process.
1454,roles of induced expression of mapk phosphatase-2 in tumor development in ret-men2a transgenic mice,germline mutations in the ret tyrosine kinase gene are responsible for the development of multiple endocrine neoplasia 2a and 2b (men2a and men2b). however  knowledge of the fundamental principles that determine the mutant ret-mediated signaling remains elusive. here  we report increased expression of mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphatase-2 (mkp-2) in carcinomas developed in transgenic mice carrying ret with the men2a mutation (ret-men2a). the expression of mkp-2 was not only induced by ret-men2a or ret-men2b mutant proteins but also by the activation of endogenous ret by its ligand  glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (gdnf). mkp-2 expression was also evident in the mkk-f cell line  which was established from a mammary tumor developed in a ret-men2a transgenic mouse. inhibition of mkp-2 attenuated the in vitro and in vivo proliferation of mkk-f cells  which was mediated by the suppression of cyclin b1 expression. furthermore  we found that mkp-2 is highly expressed in medullary thyroid carcinomas derived from men2a patients. these findings suggest that the increased expression of mkp-2 may play a crucial role in oncogenic signaling downstream of mutant ret  leading to deregulation of cell cycle.
1456,lentivirally transduced dendritic cells as a tool for cancer immunotherapy.,background dendritic cells (dc) are the professional antigen-presenting cells of the immune system  fully equipped to prime naive t cells and thus essential components for cancer immunotherapy. methods we tested the influence of several elements (cppt  trip  wpre  sin) on the transduction efficiency of human dc. human and murine dc were transduced with tngfr-encoding lentiviruses to assess the effect of transduction on phenotype and function. human dc were transduced with lentiviruses encoding huii80mage-a3 and murine dc with huii80tova to test antigen presentation. results a self-inactivating (sin) lentiviral vector containing the trip element was most efficient in transducing human dc. the transduction of dc with trip/sin tngfr encoding lentiviral vectors at moi 15 resulted in stable gene expression in up to 94.6% (murine) and 88.2% (human) of the mature dc  without perturbing viability  phenotype and function. human huii80mage-a3-transduced dc were able to stimulate mage-a3-specific cd4(+) and cd8(+) t cell clones and could prime both mage-a3-specific cd4(+) and cd8(+) t cells in vitro. murine huii80tova-transduced dc were able to present ova peptides in the context of mhc class i and class ii in vitro and induced a strong ova-specific cytotoxic t lymphocyte response in vivo  that was protective against subsequent challenge with ova-expressing tumor cells. conclusions we show that  using lentiviral vectors  efficient gene transfer in human and murine dc can be obtained and that these dc can elicit antigen-specific immune responses in vitro and in vivo. the composition of the transfer vector has a major impact on the transduction efficiency.
1458,molecular characterization of the yeast meiotic regulatory gene rim1.,in the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae  genetic studies suggest that the rim1 gene encodes a positive regulator of meiosis. rim1 mutations cause reduced expression of ime1  which is required for expression of many meiotic genes  and thus lead to a partial defect in meiosis and spore formation. we report the sequence of rim1 and functional analysis of its coding region. the rim1 gene product (rim1) contains three regions similar to c2h2 zinc fingers. serine substitutions for cysteine in each of the putative zinc fingers abolish rim1 function. the carboxyl-terminus of rim1 is enriched in acidic amino acids and is required for full rim1 activity. rim1 also contains two putative camp-dependent protein kinase (capk) phosphorylation sites. at one site  substitution of alanine for serine does not affect rim1 activity; at the other site  this substitution impairs activity. this analysis of rim1 suggests that the protein may function as a transcriptional activator. we have used the cloned rim1 gene to create a complete rim1 deletion. this null allele  like previously isolated rim1 mutations  causes a partial meiotic defect. in addition to rim1  maximum ime1 expression requires the mck1 and ime4 gene products. defects associated with rim1  mck1  and ime4 mutations in expression of a meiotic reporter gene (ime2-lacz) and in sporulation are additive. these findings suggest that rim1 acts independently of mck1 and ime4 to stimulate ime1 expression.
1460,nanoparticle conjugation of cpg enhances adjuvancy for cellular immunity and memory recall at low dose.,in subunit vaccines  strong cd8(+) t-cell responses are desired  yet they are elusive at reasonable adjuvant doses. we show that targeting adjuvant to the lymph node (ln) via ultrasmall polymeric nanoparticles (nps)  which rapidly drain to the ln after intradermal injection  greatly enhances adjuvant efficacy at low doses. coupling cpg-b or cpg-c oligonucleotides to nps led to better dual-targeting of adjuvant and antigen (codelivered on separate nps) in cross-presenting dendritic cells compared with free adjuvant. this led to enhanced dendritic cell maturation and t helper 1 (th1)-cytokine secretion  in turn driving stronger effector cd8(+) t-cell activation with enhanced cytolytic profiles and  importantly  more powerful memory recall. with only 4 μg cpg  np-cpg-b could substantially protect mice from syngeneic tumor challenge  even after 4 mo of vaccination  compared with free cpg-b. together  these results show that nanocarriers can enhance vaccine efficacy at a low adjuvant dose for inducing potent and long-lived cellular immunity.
1462,noninvasive ventilation for treatment of acute respiratory failure in patients undergoing solid organ transplantation: a randomized trial.,context noninvasive ventilation (niv) has been associated with lower rates of endotracheal intubation in populations of patients with acute respiratory failure. objective to compare niv with standard treatment using supplemental oxygen administration to avoid endotracheal intubation in recipients of solid organ transplantation with acute hypoxemic respiratory failure. design and setting prospective randomized study conducted at a 14-bed  general intensive care unit of a university hospital. patients of 238 patients who underwent solid organ transplantation from december 1995 to october 1997  51 were treated for acute respiratory failure. of these  40 were eligible and 20 were randomized to each group. intervention noninvasive ventilation vs standard treatment with supplemental oxygen administration. main outcome measures the need for endotracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation at any time during the study  complications not present on admission  duration of ventilatory assistance  length of hospital stay  and intensive care unit mortality. results the 2 groups were similar at study entry. within the first hour of treatment  14 patients (70%) in the niv group  and 5 patients (25%) in the standard treatment group improved their ratio of the pao2 to the fraction of inspired oxygen (fio2). over time  a sustained improvement in pao2 to fio2 was noted in 12 patients (60%) in the niv group  and in 5 patients (25%) randomized to standard treatment (p = .03). the use of niv was associated with a significant reduction in the rate of endotracheal intubation (20% vs 70%; p = .002)  rate of fatal complications (20% vs 50%; p = .05)  length of stay in the intensive care unit by survivors (mean [sd] days  5.5 [3] vs 9 [4]; p = .03)  and intensive care unit mortality (20% vs 50%; p = .05). hospital mortality did not differ. conclusions these results indicate that transplantation programs should consider niv in the treatment of selected recipients of transplantation with acute respiratory failure.
1464,dual and opposing roles of primary cilia in medulloblastoma development,recent work has shown that primary cilia are essential for hedgehog (hh) signaling during mammalian development. it is also known that aberrant hh signaling can lead to cancer  but the role of primary cilia in oncogenesis is not known. cerebellar granule neuron precursors (gnps) can give rise to medulloblastomas  the most common malignant brain tumor in children. the primary cilium and hh signaling are required for gnp proliferation. we asked whether primary cilia in gnps have a role in medulloblastoma growth in mice. genetic ablation of primary cilia blocked medulloblastoma formation when this tumor was driven by a constitutively active smoothened protein (smo)  an upstream activator of hh signaling. in contrast  removal of cilia was required for medulloblastoma growth by a constitutively active glioma-associated oncogene family zinc finger-2 (gli2)  a downstream transcription factor. thus  primary cilia are either required for or inhibit medulloblastoma formation  depending on the initiating oncogenic event. remarkably  the presence or absence of cilia was associated with specific variants of human medulloblastomas; primary cilia were found in medulloblastomas with activation in hh or wnt signaling but not in most medulloblastomas in other distinct molecular subgroups. primary cilia could serve as a diagnostic tool and provide new insights into the mechanism of tumorigenesis.
1466,use of synthetic peptides to locate novel integrin alpha2beta1-binding motifs in human collagen iii.,a set of 57 synthetic peptides encompassing the entire triplehelical domain of human collagen iii was used to locate binding sites for the collagen-binding integrin alpha(2)beta(1). the capacity of the peptides to support mg(2+)-dependent binding of several integrin preparations was examined. wild-type integrins (recombinant alpha(2) i-domain  alpha(2)beta(1) purified from platelet membranes  and recombinant soluble alpha(2)beta(1) expressed as an alpha(2)-fos/beta(1)-jun heterodimer) bound well to only three peptides  two containing gxx'ger motifs (groger and gmoger  where o is hydroxyproline) and one containing two adjacent gxx'gen motifs (glkgen and glogen). two mutant alpha(2) i-domains were tested: the inactive t221a mutant  which recognized no peptides  and the constitutively active e318w mutant  which bound a larger subset of peptides. adhesion of activated human platelets to ger-containing peptides was greater than that of resting platelets  and ht1080 cells bound well to more of the peptides compared with platelets. binding of cells and recombinant proteins was abolished by anti-alpha(2) monoclonal antibody 6f1 and by chelation of mg(2+). we describe two novel high affinity integrin-binding motifs in human collagen iii (groger and glogen) and a third motif (glkgen) that displays intermediate activity. each motif was verified using shorter synthetic peptides.
1468,trp channels of intracellular membranes.,ion channels are classically understood to regulate the flux of ions across the plasma membrane in response to a variety of environmental and intracellular cues. ion channels serve a number of functions in intracellular membranes as well. these channels may be temporarily localized to intracellular membranes as a function of their biosynthetic or secretory pathways  i.e.  en route to their destination location. intracellular membrane ion channels may also be located in the endocytic pathways  either being recycled back to the plasma membrane or targeted to the lysosome for degradation. several channels do participate in intracellular signal transduction; the most well known example is the inositol 1 4 5-trisphosphate receptor (ip(3)r) in the endoplasmic reticulum. some organellar intracellular membrane channels are required for the ionic homeostasis of their residing organelles. several newly-discovered intracellular membrane ca(2+) channels actually play active roles in membrane trafficking. transient receptor potential (trp) proteins are a superfamily (28 members in mammal) of ca(2+)-permeable channels with diverse tissue distribution  subcellular localization  and physiological functions. almost all mammalian trp channels studied thus far  like their ancestor yeast trp channel (trpy1) that localizes to the vacuole compartment  are also (in addition to their plasma membrane localization) found to be localized to intracellular membranes. accumulated evidence suggests that intracellularly-localized trp channels actively participate in regulating membrane traffic  signal transduction  and vesicular ion homeostasis. this review aims to provide a summary of these recent works. the discussion will also be extended to the basic membrane and electrical properties of the trp-residing compartments.
1470,the viral and cellular microrna targetome in lymphoblastoid cell lines,epstein-barr virus (ebv) is a ubiquitous human herpesvirus linked to a number of b cell cancers and lymphoproliferative disorders. during latent infection  ebv expresses 25 viral pre-micrornas (mirnas) and induces the expression of specific host mirnas  such as mir-155 and mir-21  which potentially play a role in viral oncogenesis. to date  only a limited number of ebv mirna targets have been identified; thus  the role of ebv mirnas in viral pathogenesis and/or lymphomagenesis is not well defined. here  we used photoactivatable ribonucleoside-enhanced crosslinking and immunoprecipitation (par-clip) combined with deep sequencing and computational analysis to comprehensively examine the viral and cellular mirna targetome in ebv strain b95-8-infected lymphoblastoid cell lines (lcls). we identified 7 827 mirna-interaction sites in 3 492 cellular 3'utrs. 531 of these sites contained seed matches to viral mirnas. 24 par-clip-identified mirna:3'utr interactions were confirmed by reporter assays. our results reveal that ebv mirnas predominantly target cellular transcripts during latent infection  thereby manipulating the host environment. furthermore  targets of ebv mirnas are involved in multiple cellular processes that are directly relevant to viral infection  including innate immunity  cell survival  and cell proliferation. finally  we present evidence that myc-regulated host mirnas from the mir-17/92 cluster can regulate latent viral gene expression. this comprehensive survey of the mirna targetome in ebv-infected b cells represents a key step towards defining the functions of ebv-encoded mirnas  and potentially  identifying novel therapeutic targets for ebv-associated malignancies.
1472,replisome stall events have shaped the distribution of replication origins in the genomes of yeasts,during s phase  the entire genome must be precisely duplicated  with no sections of dna left unreplicated. here  we develop a simple mathematical model to describe the probability of replication failing due to the irreversible stalling of replication forks. we show that the probability of complete genome replication is maximized if replication origins are evenly spaced  the largest inter-origin distances are minimized  and the end-most origins are positioned close to chromosome ends. we show that origin positions in the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae genome conform to all three predictions thereby maximizing the probability of complete replication if replication forks stall. origin positions in four other yeasts-kluyveromyces lactis  lachancea kluyveri  lachancea waltii and schizosaccharomyces pombe-also conform to these predictions. equating failure rates at chromosome ends with those in chromosome interiors gives a mean per nucleotide fork stall rate of ∼5 × 10(-8)  which is consistent with experimental estimates. using this value in our theoretical predictions gives replication failure rates that are consistent with data from replication origin knockout experiments. our theory also predicts that significantly larger genomes  such as those of mammals  will experience a much greater probability of replication failure genome-wide  and therefore will likely require additional compensatory mechanisms.
1474,single-cell expression analyses during cellular reprogramming reveal an early stochastic and a late hierarchic phase,during cellular reprogramming  only a small fraction of cells become induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs). previous analyses of gene expression during reprogramming were based on populations of cells  impeding single-cell level identification of reprogramming events. we utilized two gene expression technologies to profile 48 genes in single cells at various stages during the reprogramming process. analysis of early stages revealed considerable variation in gene expression between cells in contrast to late stages. expression of esrrb  utf1  lin28  and dppa2 is a better predictor for cells to progress into ipscs than expression of the previously suggested reprogramming markers fbxo15  fgf4  and oct4. stochastic gene expression early in reprogramming is followed by a late hierarchical phase with sox2 being the upstream factor in a gene expression hierarchy. finally  downstream factors derived from the late phase  which do not include oct4  sox2  klf4  c-myc  and nanog  can activate the pluripotency circuitry.
1476,global tuberculosis control: lessons learnt and future prospects,tuberculosis (tb) is an ancient disease  but not a disease of the past. after disappearing from the world public health agenda in the 1960s and 1970s  tb returned in the early 1990s for several reasons  including the emergence of the hiv/aids pandemic and increases in drug resistance. more than 100 years after the discovery of the tubercle bacillus by robert koch  what is the status of tb control worldwide? here  we review the evolution of global tb control policies  including dots (directly observed therapy  short course) and the stop tb strategy  and assess whether the challenges and obstacles faced by the public health community worldwide in developing and implementing this strategy can aid future action towards the elimination of tb.
1478,gastrointestinal tract as a major site of cd4+ t cell depletion and viral replication in siv infection.,human and simian immunodeficiency virus (hiv and siv) replicate optimally in activated memory cd4(+) t cells  a cell type that is abundant in the intestine. siv infection of rhesus monkeys resulted in profound and selective depletion of cd4+ t cells in the intestine within days of infection  before any such changes in peripheral lymphoid tissues. the loss of cd4+ t cells in the intestine occurred coincident with productive infection of large numbers of mononuclear cells at this site. the intestine appears to be a major target for siv replication and the major site of cd4+ t cell loss in early siv infection.
1480,human monocyte characteristics are altered in hypercholesterolaemia.,peripheral blood monocytes are involved during atherogenesis in adhering to endothelium  migrating into the subendothelial space and taking-up lipoproteins to become macrophage/foam cells. we have assessed whether peripheral blood monocyte characteristics are altered in human hyperlipidaemia in age/sex/smoking status matched pairs of patients and controls. monocytes from the hypercholesterolaemic patients  as opposed to the controls  were more sensitive to stimulation by the agonist  n-formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine  with respect to chemokinesis (stimulation index 1.48 +/- 0.17 vs. 1.10 +/- 0.14)  chemotaxis (4.05 +/- 0.55 vs. 2.72 +/- 0.24) and adhesion to porcine aortic endothelial monolayers (1.26 +/- 0.05 vs. 1.17 +/- 0.06). the patients' monocyte total surface expression of the adhesion glycoprotein cd11b/cd18 (37.5 +/- 7.1 vs. 36.0 +/- 7.1)  but not cd11c/cd18 (31.6 +/- 7.2 vs. 31.4 +/- 6.8)  was increased; however  the monocytes in hyperlipidaemia were larger (9.15 +/- 0.11 microns vs. 8.98 +/- 0.11 microns) such that the surface density of cd11b/cd18 was not altered (0.144 +/- 0.029 vs. 0.142 +/- 0.029). the data suggest that circulating monocytes are functionally different in hypercholesterolaemia. this may explain the increased involvement by monocytes in hypercholesterolaemia-related atherogenesis.
1482,relationship of ambulatory blood pressure and the heart rate profile with renal function parameters in hypertensive patients with chronic kidney disease.,strict blood pressure (bp) control is reportedly important for the management of hypertensive patients with chronic kidney disease (ckd). the purpose of this cross-sectional study was to examine whether the variables of ambulatory bp and the heart rate (hr) profile  central hemodynamics  and arterial stiffness were closely related to the renal function parameters (urine albumin excretion rate [uacr] and estimated glomerular filtration rate [egfr]) observed in 25 consecutive hospitalized hypertensive patients with ckd. there were significant positive relationships between uacr and 24-hour  daytime  and nighttime ambulatory systolic bp. in addition  there were significant negative relationships between uacr and 24-hour and daytime hr variability. the circulating b-type natriuretic peptide level and hemoglobin a1c were also positively related to uacr. with respect to egfr  although the 24-hour and nighttime hr variability were positively associated with egfr  the circulating pentosidine and nighttime hr had a negative relationship with egfr. on the other hand  central hemodynamics and arterial stiffness did not exhibit any significant association with renal function parameters. these results indicate that ambulatory bp and the hr profile are closely modulated by renal function deterioration. further studies are needed to investigate the causal relationship between ambulatory bp and the hr profile and renal function parameters in hypertensive patients with ckd.
1484,a protein inventory of human ribosome biogenesis reveals an essential function of exportin 5 in 60s subunit export,the assembly of ribosomal subunits in eukaryotes is a complex  multistep process so far mostly studied in yeast. in s. cerevisiae  more than 200 factors including ribosomal proteins and trans-acting factors are required for the ordered assembly of 40s and 60s ribosomal subunits. to date  only few human homologs of these yeast ribosome synthesis factors have been characterized. here  we used a systematic rna interference (rnai) approach to analyze the contribution of 464 candidate factors to ribosomal subunit biogenesis in human cells. the screen was based on visual readouts  using inducible  fluorescent ribosomal proteins as reporters. by performing computer-based image analysis utilizing supervised machine-learning techniques  we obtained evidence for a functional link of 153 human proteins to ribosome synthesis. our data show that core features of ribosome assembly are conserved from yeast to human  but differences exist for instance with respect to 60s subunit export. unexpectedly  our rnai screen uncovered a requirement for the export receptor exportin 5 (exp5) in nuclear export of 60s subunits in human cells. we show that exp5  like the known 60s exportin crm1  binds to pre-60s particles in a rangtp-dependent manner. interference with either exp5 or crm1 function blocks 60s export in both human cells and frog oocytes  whereas 40s export is compromised only upon inhibition of crm1. thus  60s subunit export is dependent on at least two rangtp-binding exportins in vertebrate cells.
1486,rapid recent growth and divergence of rice nuclear genomes.,by employing the nuclear dna of the african rice oryza glaberrima as a reference genome  the timing  natures  mechanisms  and specificities of recent sequence evolution in the indica and japonica subspecies of oryza sativa were identified. the data indicate that the genome sizes of both indica and japonica have increased substantially  >2% and >6%  respectively  since their divergence from a common ancestor  mainly because of the amplification of ltr-retrotransposons. however  losses of all classes of dna sequence through unequal homologous recombination and illegitimate recombination have attenuated the growth of the rice genome. small deletions have been particularly frequent throughout the genome. in >1 mb of orthologous regions that we analyzed  no cases of complete gene acquisition or loss from either indica or japonica were found  nor was any example of precise transposon excision detected. the sequences between genes were observed to have a very high rate of divergence  indicating a molecular clock for transposable elements that is at least 2-fold more rapid than synonymous base substitutions within genes. we found that regions prone to frequent insertions and deletions also exhibit higher levels of point mutation. these results indicate a highly dynamic rice genome with competing processes for the generation and removal of genetic variation.
1488,spatial and temporal heterogeneity of anopheles mosquitoes and plasmodium falciparum transmission along the kenyan coast.,the seasonal dynamics and spatial distributions of anopheles mosquitoes and plasmodium falciparum parasites were studied for one year at 30 villages in malindi  kilifi  and kwale districts along the coast of kenya. anopheline mosquitoes were sampled inside houses at each site once every two months and malaria parasite prevalence in local school children was determined at the end of the entomologic survey. a total of 5 476 anopheles gambiae s.l. and 3 461 an. funestus were collected. species in the an. gambiae complex  identified by a polymerase chain reaction  included 81.9% an. gambiae s.s.  12.8% an. arabiensis  and 5.3% an. merus. anopheles gambiae s.s. contributed most to the transmission of p. falciparum along the coast as a whole  while an. funestus accounted for more than 50% of all transmission in kwale district. large spatial heterogeneity of transmission intensity (< 1 up to 120 infective bites per person per year) resulted in correspondingly large and significantly related variations in parasite prevalence (range = 38-83%). thirty-two percent of the sites (7 of 22 sites) with malaria prevalences ranging from 38% to 70% had annual entomologic inoculation rates (eir) less than five infective bites per person per year. anopheles gambiae s.l. and an. funestus densities in kwale were not significantly influenced by rainfall. however  both were positively correlated with rainfall one and three months previously in malindi and kilifi districts  respectively. these unexpected variations in the relationship between mosquito populations and rainfall suggest environmental heterogeneity in the predominant aquatic habitats in each district. one important conclusion is that the highly non-linear relationship between eirs and prevalence indicates that the consistent pattern of high prevalence might be governed by substantial variation in transmission intensity measured by entomologic surveys. the field-based estimate of entomologic parameters on a district level does not provide a sensitive indicator of transmission intensity in this study.
1490,molecular and cellular approaches for diversifying and extending optogenetics,optogenetic technologies employ light to control biological processes within targeted cells in vivo with high temporal precision. here  we show that application of molecular trafficking principles can expand the optogenetic repertoire along several long-sought dimensions. subcellular and transcellular trafficking strategies now permit (1) optical regulation at the far-red/infrared border and extension of optogenetic control across the entire visible spectrum  (2) increased potency of optical inhibition without increased light power requirement (nanoampere-scale chloride-mediated photocurrents that maintain the light sensitivity and reversible  step-like kinetic stability of earlier tools)  and (3) generalizable strategies for targeting cells based not only on genetic identity  but also on morphology and tissue topology  to allow versatile targeting when promoters are not known or in genetically intractable organisms. together  these results illustrate use of cell-biological principles to enable expansion of the versatile fast optogenetic technologies suitable for intact-systems biology and behavior.
1492,geographic distribution of community-acquired methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus soft tissue infections.,purpose the goal of this study is to look at the geographic growth patterns of community-acquired methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus (mrsa) infections in our local region and to determine if specific geographic areas are at increased risk. methods after institution review board approval (132603-3)  a retrospective chart review was conducted of 614 patients who underwent incision and drainage of an abscess by a single pediatric surgical practice from january 2004 to december 2008. in addition  previously published data from 195 patients who underwent incision and drainage of an abscess from january 2000 to december 2003 were reviewed. results the most commonly cultured organism found in the pediatric population undergoing incision and drainage was s aureus (n = 388)  of which 258 (66%) were methicillin resistant. this is a 21% increase from the rate of mrsa cultures identified from 2000 to 2003. geographic information system space-time analysis showed that a cluster of 14 mrsa cases was located within a 1.44-km radius between 2000 and 2003  and 5 separate clusters of more than 20 mrsa infection cases each were identified in 3 separate cities over the 8-year time span using geographic information system spatial analysis (p value = .001). conclusion methicillin-resistant s aureus has now become the most prevalent organism isolated from cultures of community-acquired abscesses requiring incision and drainage in the pediatric population in our local region. significant clustering of mrsa infections has appeared in several different cities within our geographic region.
1494,phosphorylation site mutations in heterochromatin protein 1 (hp1) reduce or eliminate silencing activity.,hp1 is an essential heterochromatin-associated protein in drosophila. hp1 has dosage-dependent effects on the silencing of euchromatic genes that are mislocalized to heterochromatin and is required for the normal expression of at least two heterochromatic genes. hp1 is multiply phosphorylated in vivo  and hp1 hyperphosphorylation is correlated with heterochromatin assembly during development. the purpose of this study was to test whether hp1 phosphorylation modifies biological activity and biochemical properties of hp1. to determine sites of hp1 phosphorylation in vivo and whether phosphorylation affects any biochemical properties of hp1  we expressed drosophila hp1 in lepidopteran cultured cells using a recombinant baculovirus vector. phosphopeptides were identified by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization/time of flight mass spectroscopy; these peptides contain target sites for casein kinase ii  protein tyrosine kinase  and pim-1 kinase. purified hp1 from bacterial (unphosphorylated) and lepidopteran (phosphorylated) cells has similar secondary structure. phosphorylation has no effect on hp1 self-association but alters the dna binding properties of hp1  suggesting that phosphorylation could differentially regulate hp1-dependent interactions. serine-to-alanine and serine-to-glutamate substitutions at consensus protein kinase motifs resulted in reduction or loss of silencing activity of mutant hp1 in transgenic flies. these results suggest that dynamic phosphorylation/dephosphorylation regulates hp1 activity in heterochromatic silencing.
1496,ribosome profiling provides evidence that large noncoding rnas do not encode proteins,large noncoding rnas are emerging as an important component in cellular regulation. considerable evidence indicates that these transcripts act directly as functional rnas rather than through an encoded protein product. however  a recent study of ribosome occupancy reported that many large intergenic ncrnas (lincrnas) are bound by ribosomes  raising the possibility that they are translated into proteins. here  we show that classical noncoding rnas and 5' utrs show the same ribosome occupancy as lincrnas  demonstrating that ribosome occupancy alone is not sufficient to classify transcripts as coding or noncoding. instead  we define a metric based on the known property of translation whereby translating ribosomes are released upon encountering a bona fide stop codon. we show that this metric accurately discriminates between protein-coding transcripts and all classes of known noncoding transcripts  including lincrnas. taken together  these results argue that the large majority of lincrnas do not function through encoded proteins.
1498,treatment of spondyloarthropathy with 5-aminosalicylic acid (mesalazine): an open trial.,objective ankylosing spondylitis (as) and spondyloarthropathy (spa) are inflammatory diseases of unknown etiology. various exogenous and endogenous (inherited) factors play a role in their development. sulfasalazine (ssz) is generally accepted as a disease modifying drug in the treatment of as and spa. which part of ssz  5-acetylsalicylic acid (5-asa  mesalazine) or sulfapyridine (sp)  is the effective moiety is unknown. as the bowel  colon  and the ileum play an important role in the development of as and spa  it may be possible that 5-asa is the effective moiety  with a similar mode of action as in the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease. to determine the efficacy of 5-asa an open pilot study was done in 2 groups of patients with spa.   methods twenty patients with spa  who were taking ssz  were switched to 5-asa (pentasa)  and 19 patients with active spa were treated with 5-asa without previous administration of ssz. results in the first group  17 (85%) patients responded with respect to the physician global clinical assessment compared to the previous ssz treatment period; whereas in the second patient group a statistically significant improvement was obtained in erythrocyte sedimentation rate. conclusion the results support our hypothesis that 5-asa might be the active moiety of ssz in the treatment of spa.
1500,vascular calcification in chronic kidney disease is induced by bone morphogenetic protein-2 via a mechanism involving the wnt/β-catenin pathway,background: vascular calcification (vc)  in which vascular smooth muscle cells (vsmcs) undergo a phenotypic transformation into osteoblast-like cells  is one of the emergent risk factors for the accelerated atherosclerosis process characteristic of chronic kidney disease (ckd). phosphate is an important regulator of vc. methods: the expression of different smooth muscle cell or osteogenesis markers in response to high concentrations of phosphate or exogenous bone morphogenetic protein 2 (bmp-2) was examined by qrt-pcr and western blotting in rat vsmcs. osteocalcin secretion was measured by radioimmunoassay. differentiation and calcification of vsmcs were examined by alkaline phosphatase (alp) activity assay and alizarin staining. short hairpin rna-mediated silencing of β-catenin was performed to examine the involvement of wnt/β-catenin signaling in vsmc calcification and osteoblastic differentiation induced by high phosphate or bmp-2. apoptosis was determined by tunel assay and immunofluorescence imaging. results: bmp-2 serum levels were significantly higher in ckd patients than in controls. high phosphate concentrations and bmp-2 induced vsmc apoptosis and upregulated the expression of β-catenin  msx2  runx2 and the phosphate cotransporter pit1  whereas a bmp-2 neutralization antibody reversed these effects. knockdown of β-catenin abolished the effect of high phosphate and bmp-2 on vsmc apoptosis and calcification. conclusions: bmp-2 plays a crucial role in calcium deposition in vsmcs and vc in ckd patients via a mechanism involving the wnt/β-catenin pathway.
1502,systematic review of controlled clinical trials of gastric lavage in acute organophosphorus pesticide poisoning.,background organophosphorus pesticide (op) self-poisoning is a major problem in the developing rural world. there is little clinical trial data to guide therapy  hindering the identification of best therapy. despite the recognition of adverse effects  gastric lavage is commonly done in asia. we aimed to identify studies assessing its effectiveness. method we systematically searched the literature for controlled clinical studies that assessed the effect of gastric lavage in op pesticide self-poisoning. results all 56 studies identified were chinese and reported benefit from the intervention studied  including multiple gastric lavages  use of norepinephrine or pralidoxime in the lavage fluid  concurrent treatment with naloxone or scopolamine  insertion of the gastric tube via a laparotomy incision  and lavage later than 12 h post-ingestion. however  only 23 were rcts and none presented adequate methodology for their quality to be assessed. the patient population and study treatment protocol were not defined - large variation in case fatality in the control arm of the studies (from 4.5 to 93%) suggests marked variation between studies and likely between study arms. no study compared an intervention against a control group receiving no gastric lavage or provided any data to indicate whether a significant quantity of poison was removed. conclusion despite widespread use of multiple gastric lavages for op pesticide poisoning across asia  there is currently no high-quality evidence to support its clinical effectiveness. there is a need for studies to identify in which patients and for what duration gastric lavage is able to remove significant quantities of poison. following these studies  large clinical trials will be required to address the effectiveness and safety of gastric lavage (either single or multiple) in acute op pesticide poisoning.
1504,convergence of 9-cis retinoic acid and peroxisome proliferator signalling pathways through heterodimer formation of their receptors,peroxisomes are cytoplasmic organelles which are important in mammals in modulation of lipid homeostasis  including the metabolism of long-chain fatty acids and conversion of cholesterol to bile salts (reviewed in refs 1 and 2). amphipathic carboxylates such as clofibric acid have been used in man as hypolipidaemic agents and in rodents they stimulate the proliferation of peroxisomes. these agents  termed peroxisome proliferators  and all-trans retinoic acid activate genes involved in peroxisomal-mediated β-oxidation of fatty acids1–4. here we show that the receptor activated by peroxisome proliferators5 and the retinoid x receptor-α (ref. 6) form a heterodimer that activates acyl-coa oxidase gene expression in response to either clofibric acid or the retinoid x receptor-α ligand  9-cis retinoic acid  an all-trans retinoic acid metabolite7 8; simultaneous exposure to both activators results in a synergistic induction of gene expression. these data demonstrate the coupling of the peroxisome proliferator and retinoid signalling pathways and provide evidence for a physiological role for 9-cis retinoic acid in modulating lipid metabolism.
1506,a general model to explore complex dominance patterns in plant sporophytic self-incompatibility systems.,we developed a general model of sporophytic self-incompatibility under negative frequency-dependent selection allowing complex patterns of dominance among alleles. we used this model deterministically to investigate the effects on equilibrium allelic frequencies of the number of dominance classes  the number of alleles per dominance class  the asymmetry in dominance expression between pollen and pistil  and whether selection acts on male fitness only or both on male and on female fitnesses. we show that the so-called "recessive effect" occurs under a wide variety of situations. we found emerging properties of finite population models with several alleles per dominance class such as that higher numbers of alleles are maintained in more dominant classes and that the number of dominance classes can evolve. we also investigated the occurrence of homozygous genotypes and found that substantial proportions of those can occur for the most recessive alleles. we used the model for two species with complex dominance patterns to test whether allelic frequencies in natural populations are in agreement with the distribution predicted by our model. we suggest that the model can be used to test explicitly for additional  allele-specific  selective forces.
1508,characterization of constitutive ctcf/cohesin loci: a possible role in establishing topological domains in mammalian genomes,background recent studies suggested that human/mammalian genomes are divided into large  discrete domains that are units of chromosome organization. ctcf  a ccctc binding factor  has a diverse role in genome regulation including transcriptional regulation  chromosome-boundary insulation  dna replication  and chromatin packaging. it remains unclear whether a subset of ctcf binding sites plays a functional role in establishing/maintaining chromatin topological domains. results we systematically analysed the genomic  transcriptomic and epigenetic profiles of the ctcf binding sites in 56 human cell lines from encode. we identified ~24 000 ctcf sites (referred to as constitutive sites) that were bound in more than 90% of the cell lines. our analysis revealed: 1) constitutive ctcf loci were located in constitutive open chromatin and often co-localized with constitutive cohesin loci; 2) most constitutive ctcf loci were distant from transcription start sites and lacked cpg islands but were enriched with the full-spectrum ctcf motifs: a recently reported 33/34-mer and two other potentially novel (22/26-mer); 3) more importantly  most constitutive ctcf loci were present in ctcf-mediated chromatin interactions detected by chia-pet and these pair-wise interactions occurred predominantly within  but not between  topological domains identified by hi-c.   conclusions our results suggest that the constitutive ctcf sites may play a role in organizing/maintaining the recently identified topological domains that are common across most human cells.
1510,the worldwide variation in avian clutch size across species and space,traits such as clutch size vary markedly across species and environmental gradients but have usually been investigated from either a comparative or a geographic perspective  respectively. we analyzed the global variation in clutch size across 5 290 bird species  excluding brood parasites and pelagic species. we integrated intrinsic (morphological  behavioural)  extrinsic (environmental)  and phylogenetic effects in a combined model that predicts up to 68% of the interspecific variation in clutch size. we then applied the same species-level model to predict mean clutch size across 2 521 assemblages worldwide and found that it explains the observed eco-geographic pattern very well. clutches are consistently largest in cavity nesters and in species occupying seasonal environments  highlighting the importance of offspring and adult mortality that is jointly expressed in intrinsic and extrinsic correlates. the findings offer a conceptual bridge between macroecology and comparative biology and provide a global and integrative understanding of the eco-geographic and cross-species variation in a core life-history trait.
1512,the lncrnas pcgem1 and prncr1 are not implicated in castration resistant prostate cancer,long noncoding rnas (incrnas) are increasingly implicated in cancer biology  contributing to essential cancer cell functions such as proliferation  invasion  and metastasis. in prostate cancer  several lncrnas have been nominated as critical actors in disease pathogenesis. among these  expression of pcgem1 and prncr1 has been identified as a possible component in disease progression through the coordination of androgen receptor (ar) signaling (yang et al.  nature 2013  see ref. [1]). however  concerns regarding the robustness of these findings have been suggested. here  we sought to evaluate whether pcgem1 and prncr1 are associated with prostate cancer. through a comprehensive analysis of rna-sequencing data (rna-seq)  we find evidence that pcgem1 but not prncr1 is associated with prostate cancer. we employ a large cohort of >230 high-risk prostate cancer patients with long-term outcomes data to show that  in contrast to prior reports  neither gene is associated with poor patient outcomes. we further observe no evidence that pcgem1 nor prncr1 interact with ar  and neither gene is a component of ar signaling. thus  we conclusively demonstrate that pcgem1 and prncr1 are not prognostic lncrnas in prostate cancer and we refute suggestions that these lncrnas interact in ar signaling.
1514,acta psychiatrica,objective we explored the subjective effects associated with olanzapine  risperidone and older antipsychotics. method we conducted a content analysis of an internet database of comments about prescribed medications. results we analysed 223 comments on risperidone  170 on olanzapine and 46 relating to three older antipsychotics. the predominant subjective effects produced by all drugs consisted of sedation  cognitive impairment and emotional flattening or indifference. connections appeared between these effects and parkinsonian-like symptoms with the older drugs  sexual impairment with risperidone and metabolic effects with olanzapine. the experience of akathisia was frequently linked to suicidal thoughts. some respondents described how the drugs' subjective effects helped to reduce symptoms of mania  psychosis and anxiety. conclusion the generalisability of internet data is uncertain. however  the data suggest that adverse subjective effects play a central role in the experience of taking antipsychotic drugs and may be related to the drugs' desired benefits.
1516,maternal and child undernutrition: consequences for adult health and human capital,in this paper we review the associations between maternal and child undernutrition with human capital and risk of adult diseases in low-income and middle-income countries. we analysed data from five long-standing prospective cohort studies from brazil  guatemala  india  the philippines  and south africa and noted that indices of maternal and child undernutrition (maternal height  birthweight  intrauterine growth restriction  and weight  height  and body-mass index at 2 years according to the new who growth standards) were related to adult outcomes (height  schooling  income or assets  offspring birthweight  body-mass index  glucose concentrations  blood pressure). we undertook systematic reviews of studies from low-income and middle-income countries for these outcomes and for indicators related to blood lipids  cardiovascular disease  lung and immune function  cancers  osteoporosis  and mental illness. undernutrition was strongly associated  both in the review of published work and in new analyses  with shorter adult height  less schooling  reduced economic productivity  and--for women--lower offspring birthweight. associations with adult disease indicators were not so clear-cut. increased size at birth and in childhood were positively associated with adult body-mass index and to a lesser extent with blood pressure values  but not with blood glucose concentrations. in our new analyses and in published work  lower birthweight and undernutrition in childhood were risk factors for high glucose concentrations  blood pressure  and harmful lipid profiles once adult body-mass index and height were adjusted for  suggesting that rapid postnatal weight gain--especially after infancy--is linked to these conditions. the review of published works indicates that there is insufficient information about long-term changes in immune function  blood lipids  or osteoporosis indicators. birthweight is positively associated with lung function and with the incidence of some cancers  and undernutrition could be associated with mental illness. we noted that height-for-age at 2 years was the best predictor of human capital and that undernutrition is associated with lower human capital. we conclude that damage suffered in early life leads to permanent impairment  and might also affect future generations. its prevention will probably bring about important health  educational  and economic benefits. chronic diseases are especially common in undernourished children who experience rapid weight gain after infancy.
1518,detection and function of nitric oxide during the hypersensitive response in arabidopsis thaliana: where there's a will there's a way.,nitric oxide (no) was identified as a key player in plant defence responses approximately 20 years ago and a large body of evidence has accumulated since then supporting its role as a signalling molecule. however  there are many discrepancies in current no detection assays and the enzymatic pathways responsible for its synthesis have yet to be determined. this has provoked strong debates concerning the function of no in plants  even questioning its existence in planta. here we gather data obtained using the model pathosystem arabidopsis/pseudomonas  which confirms the production of no during the hypersensitive response and supports is role as a trigger of hypersensitive cell death and a mediator of defence gene expression. finally  we discuss potential sources of no synthesis  focusing on the role of nitrite as major substrate for no production during incompatible interactions.
1520,rbp2 belongs to a family of demethylases  specific for tri-and dimethylated lysine 4 on histone 3,methylation of histones has been regarded as a stable modification defining the epigenetic program of the cell  which regulates chromatin structure and transcription. however  the recent discovery of histone demethylases has challenged the stable nature of histone methylation. here we demonstrate that the jarid1 proteins rbp2  plu1  and smcx are histone demethylases specific for di- and trimethylated histone 3 lysine 4 (h3k4). consistent with a role for the jarid1 drosophila homolog lid in regulating expression of homeotic genes during development  we show that rbp2 is displaced from hox genes during embryonic stem (es) cell differentiation correlating with an increase of their h3k4me3 levels and expression. furthermore  we show that mutation or rnai depletion of the c. elegans jarid1 homolog rbr-2 leads to increased levels of h3k4me3 during larval development and defects in vulva formation. taken together  these results suggest that h3k4me3/me2 demethylation regulated by the jarid1 family plays an important role during development.
1522,persistence of hiv-1 receptor-positive cells after hsv-2 reactivation: a potential mechanism for increased hiv-1 acquisition,to explore the mechanism by which herpes simplex virus (hsv)-2 infection is related to hiv-1 acquisition  we conducted in situ analysis of the cellular infiltrate from sequential biopsies of hsv-2 lesions from patients on and off antiviral therapy. cd4(+) and cd8(+) t cells and a mixed population of plasmacytoid and myeloid dendritic cells (dcs)  including cells expressing the c-type lectin receptor dc-sign  persisted at sites of hsv-2 reactivation for months after healing  even with daily antiviral therapy. the cd4(+) t cells that persisted reacted to hsv-2 antigen  were enriched for expression of the chemokine receptor ccr5  and were contiguous to dcs expressing the interleukin-3 receptor cd123 or dc-sign. ex vivo infection with a ccr5-tropic strain of hiv-1 revealed greater concentrations of integrated hiv-1 dna in cells derived from healed genital lesion biopsies than in cells from control skin biopsies. the persistence and enrichment of hiv receptor-positive inflammatory cells in the genitalia help explain the inability of anti-hsv-2 therapy to reduce hiv acquisition.
1524,in vivo microtubules are copolymers of available beta-tubulin isotypes: localization of each of six vertebrate beta-tubulin isotypes using polyclonal antibodies elicited by synthetic peptide antigens,beta-tubulin is encoded in the genomes of higher animals by a small multigene family comprising approximately seven functional genes. these genes produce a family of closely related  but distinct polypeptide isotypes that are distinguished principally by sequences within the approximately 15 carboxy-terminal amino acid residues. by immunizing rabbits with chemically synthesized peptides corresponding to these variable domain sequences  we have now prepared polyclonal antibodies specific for each of six distinct isotypes. specificity of each antiserum has been demonstrated unambiguously by antibody binding to bacterially produced  cloned proteins representing each isotype and by the inhibition of such binding by preincubation of each antiserum only with the immunizing peptide and not with heterologous peptides. protein blotting of known amounts of cloned  isotypically pure polypeptides has permitted accurate quantitative measurement of the amount of each beta-tubulin isotype present in the soluble and polymer forms in various cells  but has not revealed a bias for preferential assembly of any isotype. localization of each isotype in three different cell types using indirect immunofluorescence has demonstrated that in vivo each class of microtubules distinguishable by light microscopy is assembled as copolymers of all isotypes expressed in a single cell.
1526,break-induced dna replication.,recombination-dependent dna replication  often called break-induced replication (bir)  was initially invoked to explain recombination events in bacteriophage but it has recently been recognized as a fundamentally important mechanism to repair double-strand chromosome breaks in eukaryotes. this mechanism appears to be critically important in the restarting of stalled and broken replication forks and in maintaining the integrity of eroded telomeres. although bir helps preserve genome integrity during replication  it also promotes genome instability by the production of loss of heterozygosity and the formation of nonreciprocal translocations  as well as in the generation of complex chromosomal rearrangements.
1528,malaria risk perception  knowledge and prophylaxis practices among travellers of african ethnicity living in paris and visiting their country of origin in sub-saharan africa.,an observational prospective cohort study assessed malaria risk perception  knowledge and prophylaxis practices among individuals of african ethnicity living in paris and travelling to their country of origin to visit friends or relatives (vfr). the study compared two groups of vfr who had visited a travel clinic (tc; n=122) or a travel agency (ta; n=69) before departure. of the 47% of vfr citing malaria as a health concern  75% knew that malaria is mosquito-borne and that bed nets are an effective preventive measure. perception of high malaria risk was greater in the ta group (33%) than in the tc group (7%). the availability of a malaria vaccine was mentioned by 35% of vfr  with frequent confusion between yellow fever vaccine and malaria prevention. twenty-nine percent took adequate chemoprophylaxis with complete adherence  which was higher among the tc group (41%) than the ta group (12%). effective antivector protection measures used were bed nets (16%)  wearing long clothes at night (14%) and air conditioning (8%)  with no differences between the study groups except in the use of impregnated bed nets (11% of the tc group and none of the ta group). media coverage  malaria chemoprophylaxis repayment and cultural adaptation of preventive messages should be improved to reduce the high rate of inadequate malaria prophylaxis in vfr.
1530,porcine circovirus type 2 dna influences cytoskeleton rearrangements in plasmacytoid and monocyte-derived dendritic cells.,functional disruption of dendritic cells (dc) is an important strategy for viral pathogens to evade host defences. in this context  porcine circovirus type 2 (pcv2)  a single-stranded dna virus  impairs plasmacytoid dc (pdc) and conventional dc activation by certain viruses or toll-like receptor (tlr) ligands. this inhibitory capacity is associated with the viral dna  but the impairment does not affect all signalling cascades; tlr7 ligation by small chemical molecules will still induce interleukin-6 (il-6) and tumour necrosis factor-α secretion  but not interferon-α or il-12. in this study  the molecular mechanisms by which silencing occurs were investigated. pp2  a potent inhibitor of the lyn and hck kinases  produced a similar profile to the pcv2 dna interference with cytokine secretion by pdc  efficiently inhibiting cell activation induced through tlr9  but not tlr7  ligation. confocal microscopy and cytometry analysis strongly suggested that pcv2 dna impairs actin polymerization and endocytosis in pdc and monocyte-derived dc  respectively. altogether  this study delineates for the first time particular molecular mechanisms involved in pcv2 interference with dc danger recognition  which may be responsible for the virus-induced immunosuppression observed in infected pigs.
1532,exercise and the immune system: regulation  integration  and adaptation.,stress-induced immunological reactions to exercise have stimulated much research into stress immunology and neuroimmunology. it is suggested that exercise can be employed as a model of temporary immunosuppression that occurs after severe physical stress. the exercise-stress model can be easily manipulated experimentally and allows for the study of interactions between the nervous  the endocrine  and the immune systems. this review focuses on mechanisms underlying exercise-induced immune changes such as neuroendocrinological factors including catecholamines  growth hormone  cortisol  beta-endorphin  and sex steroids. the contribution of a metabolic link between skeletal muscles and the lymphoid system is also reviewed. the mechanisms of exercise-associated muscle damage and the initiation of the inflammatory cytokine cascade are discussed. given that exercise modulates the immune system in healthy individuals  considerations of the clinical ramifications of exercise in the prevention of diseases for which the immune system has a role is of importance. accordingly  drawing on the experimental  clinical  and epidemiological literature  we address the interactions between exercise and infectious diseases as well as exercise and neoplasia within the context of both aging and nutrition.
1534,peripheral b cell subsets.,our understanding of the origins and the biological functions of different peripheral b cell subsets continues to evolve. some understanding has been obtained regarding the synergy between bcr-derived signals and other receptors and signaling pathways that drive the development of follicular  marginal zone  and b-1 b cells  but this remains a complex and poorly understood issue. more recent information regarding the origins of b-1 and b-2 b cells  the ability of follicular b cells to mature both in the bone marrow and the spleen  the existence of a definable precursor for mz b cells  and the ability of follicular b cells to occupy two distinct niches are all highlighted in this review.
1536,evaluating strategies for improving ovarian response of the poor responder undergoing assisted reproductive techniques.,objective to assess the efficacy of various controlled ovarian hyperstimulation (coh) regimens in the prior poor-responder patient preparing for assisted reproductive techniques. design english-language literature review. patient(s) candidates for assisted reproductive techniques who had been defined as having a prior suboptimal response to standard coh regimens. intervention(s) a variety of regimes are reviewed  including increased gonadotropin doses  change of gonadotropins  adjunctive growth hormone (gh)  luteal phase (long) gnrh agonist (gnrh-a) initiation  early follicular phase (flare) gnrh-a initiation  low-dose luteal phase (ultrashort) gnrh-a initiation  progestin pretreatment  and microdose flare gnrh-a initiation. main outcome measure(s) maximal serum e(2) levels  follicular development  dose  and duration of gonadotropin therapy  cycle cancellation rates  oocytes retrieved  embryos transferred  and clinical and ongoing pregnancy rates. result(s) a lack of uniformity in definition of the poor responder and of prospective randomized trials make data interpretation somewhat difficult. of the varied strategies proposed  those that seem to be more uniformly beneficial are microdose gnrh-a flare and late luteal phase initiation of a short course of low-dose gnrh-a discontinued before coh. conclusion(s) no single regimen will benefit all poor responders. general acceptance of uniform definitions and performance of large-scale prospective randomized trials are critical. development of a reliable precycle screen will allow effective differentiation among normal responders  poor responders  and those who will not conceive with their own oocytes.
1538,bax translocation and mitochondrial fragmentation induced by helicobacter pylori.,background and aims previous in vitro and in vivo studies have revealed an association between helicobacter pylori infection and apoptosis in gastric epithelial cells. although involvement of the bcl-2 family of proteins as well as cytochrome c release has been demonstrated in h pylori induced cell death  the exact role of the mitochondria during this type of programmed cell death has not been fully elucidated. therefore  we sought to determine whether or not bax translocation and mitochondrial fragmentation occur on exposure of gastric epithelial cells to h pylori  resulting in cell death. methods experiments were performed with human gastric adenocarcinoma (ags) cells  ags cells transfected with the hpv-e6 gene (which inactivates p53 function)  ags-neo cells (transfected with the backbone construct)  mouse embryonic fibroblasts (mefs)  and p19(arf) null (arf(-/-)) mefs. cells were incubated with a cag positive h pylori strain for up to 24 hours  lysed  and cytoplasmic and mitochondrial membrane fractions were analysed by western blot for bax translocation. results bax translocation was detected in ags  ags-neo  and normal mef cells after exposure to h pylori for three hours  but not in arf(-/-) mefs cells. translocation of bax after h pylori incubation was also detected in ags-e6 cells (inactive p53 gene) but to a lesser degree than in ags-neo cells. in parallel studies  the mitochondrial morphology of living cells infected with h pylori was assessed by confocal microscopy. mitochondrial fragmentation was detectable after 10 hours of h pylori incubation with ags cells and after seven hours with mef cells. in wild-type mefs  mitochondrial fragmentation was significantly increased in comparison with arf null mefs (43% v 10.4%  respectively). furthermore  mitochondrial depolarisation and caspase-3 activity were initiated within four hours in cells incubated with h pylori  and these events were inhibited by forced expression of bcl-2. conclusions these data suggest that during h pylori induced apoptosis  bax translocates to the mitochondria which subsequently undergo depolarisation and profound fragmentation. functional arf and p53 proteins may play an important role in h pylori induced mitochondrial modification.
1540,dengue is still an imported disease in china: a case study in guangzhou.,dengue virus and its four serotypes (denv 1-4) infect approximately 390 million people worldwide each year  with most cases in tropical and subtropical regions. because of repeated introduction of denv from epidemic regions and suitable weather conditions  many regions have shifted from hypo-endemicity to hyper-endemicity over recent decades. since the first dengue outbreak in 1978  it is crucial to understand the current situation in china over nearly 40 years. the purpose of the study was to examine whether dengue in china was endemic or not  which is essential for relevant dengue control and prevention strategy implementation in china. the study  combining epidemiological characteristics of dengue from the disease notification system  phylogenetic and phylogeographic analyses  showed that all four serotypes had been detected in guangzhou  china  which was dominated by denv 1-2. the maximum likelihood tree analytic results showed that the virus detected in guangzhou localized in different clades  except of virus of 2002 and 2003 clustered together. there existed the mutual introductions between guangzhou and southeast asia. most of the viruses were imported from southeast asia and the sources of outbreaks in guangzhou mainly originated from thailand  indonesia  and the philippines. the study indicates that dengue in china still remains as an imported disease  with the possibility of localization.
1542,oncolytic adenovirus armed with il-24 inhibits the growth of breast cancer in vitro and in vivo,background interleukin-24 (il-24) is a cytokine that belongs to the il-10 family. it can selectively induce cancer cell apoptosis which has been utilized as a cancer gene therapy strategy. methods a recombinant type five adenovirus containing il-24 gene (designated cnhk600-il24) was constructed  whose replication is activated only in tumor cells. the replication of cnhk600-il24 in breast tumor cells and fibroblasts were assessed by tcid50 and mtt assay; the secretion of il-24 was measured by elisa and western blotting. the in vivo anti-tumor effect of cnhk600-il24 was investigated in nude mice carrying orthotopic or metastatic breast tumor. results we observed that cnhk600-il24 could replicate efficiently and resulted in high level il-24 expression and massive cell death in human breast cancer cell mda-mb-231 but not in normal fibroblast cell mrc-5. in addition  orthotopic breast tumor growth in the nude mice model was significantly suppressed when cnhk600-il24 was administered. in the metastatic model generated by tail vein injection  cnhk600-il24 virotherapy significantly improved survival compared with the same virus expressing egfp (median survival cnhk600-il24  55 days vs. cnhk600-egfp  41 day  p < 0.05 mantal-cox test). a similar phenomenon was observed in the metastatic model achieved by left ventricular injection as suggested by in vivo luminescence imaging of tumor growth. conclusion the oncolytic adenovirus armed with il-24  which exhibited enhanced anti-tumor activity and improved survival  is a promising candidate for virotherapy of breast cancer.
1544,ndrg1 promotes growth of hepatocellular carcinoma cells by directly interacting with gsk-3β and nur77 to prevent β-catenin degradation,the n-myc downstream regulated gene 1 (ndrg1) is significantly associated with advanced tumor stages and poor survival of hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc)  thereby implicating it as a potential target for hcc treatment. we aim to further understand its biological roles in hepatocarcinogenesis  as a means to exploit it for therapeutic purposes. by screening using the protoarray® human protein microarrays  we identified glycogen synthase kinase 3β (gsk-3β) and the orphan nuclear receptor (nur77) as potential interaction partners of ndrg1. these interactions were confirmed in hcc cell lines in vitro by co-immunoprecipitation; and co-localizations of ndrg1 with gsk-3β and nur77 were observed by immunofluorescence staining. additionally  high levels of ndrg1 competitively bind to gsk-3β and nur77 to allow β-catenin to escape degradation  with consequent elevated levels of downstream oncogenic genes. in vivo  we consistently observed that ndrg1 suppression in hcc xenografts decreased β-catenin levels and its downstream target cyclin d1  with concomitant tumor growth inhibition. clinically  the over-expression of ndrg1 in hcc patient samples is positively correlated with gsk-3β-9ser (| r | = 0.28  p = 0.01)  nur77 (| r | = 0.42  p < 0.001)  and β-catenin (| r |= 0.32  p = 0.003) expressions. in conclusion  we identified gsk-3β and nur77 as novel interaction partners of ndrg1. these protein-protein interactions regulate the turnover of β-catenin and subsequent downstream signaling mediated by β-catenin in hcc cells  and provides potential targets for future therapeutic interventions.
1546,identification and characterization of multiple trim proteins that inhibit hepatitis b virus transcription,tripartite motif (trim) proteins constitute a family of over 100 members that share conserved tripartite motifs and exhibit diverse biological functions. several trim proteins have been shown to restrict viral infections and regulate host cellular innate immune responses. in order to identify trim proteins that modulate the infection of hepatitis b virus (hbv)  we tested 38 human trims for their effects on hbv gene expression  capsid assembly and dna synthesis in human hepatoma cells (hepg2). the study revealed that ectopic expression of 8 trim proteins in hepg2 cells potently reduced the amounts of secreted hbv surface and e antigens as well as intracellular capsid and capsid dna. mechanistic analyses further demonstrated that the 8 trims not only reduced the expression of hbv mrnas  but also inhibited hbv enhancer i and enhancer ii activities. studies focused on trim41 revealed that a hbv dna segment spanning nucleotide 1638 to nucleotide 1763 was essential for trim41-mediated inhibition of hbv enhancer ii activity and the inhibitory effect depended on the e3 ubiquitin ligase activity of trim41 as well as the integrity of trim41 c-terminal domain. moreover  knockdown of endogenous trim41 in a hepg2-derived stable cell line significantly increased the level of hbv prec/c rna  leading to an increase in viral core protein  capsid and capsid dna. our studies have thus identified eight trim proteins that are able to inhibit hbv transcription and provided strong evidences suggesting the endogenous role of trim41 in regulating hbv transcription in human hepatoma cells.
1548,the p38/mk2-driven exchange between tristetraprolin and hur regulates au–rich element–dependent translation,tnf expression of macrophages is under stringent translational control that depends on the p38 mapk/mk2 pathway and the au-rich element (are) in the tnf mrna. here  we elucidate the molecular mechanism of phosphorylation-regulated translation of tnf. we demonstrate that translation of the tnf-precursor at the er requires expression of the are-binding and -stabilizing factor human antigen r (hur) together with either activity of the p38 mapk/mk2 pathway or the absence of the are-binding and -destabilizing factor tristetraprolin (ttp). we show that phosphorylation of ttp by mk2 decreases its affinity to the are  inhibits its ability to replace hur  and permits hur-mediated initiation of translation of tnf mrna. since translation of ttp's own mrna is also regulated by this mechanism  an intrinsic feedback control of the inflammatory response is ensured. the phosphorylation-regulated ttp/hur exchange at target mrnas provides a reversible switch between unstable/non-translatable and stable/efficiently translated mrnas.
1550,the prevention of type 2 diabetes,type 2 diabetes mellitus (t2dm) affects more than 7% of adults in the us and leads to substantial personal and economic burden. in prediabetic states insulin secretion and action—potential targets of preventive interventions—are impaired. in trials lifestyle modification (i.e. weight loss and exercise) has proven effective in preventing incident t2dm in high-risk groups  although weight loss has the greatest effect. various medications (e.g. metformin  thiazolidinediones and acarbose) can also prevent or delay t2dm. whether diabetes-prevention strategies also ultimately prevent the development of diabetic vascular complications is unknown  but cardiovascular risk factors are favorably affected. preventive strategies that can be implemented in routine clinical settings have been developed and evaluated. widespread application has  however  been limited by local financial considerations  even though cost-effectiveness might be achieved at the population level.
1552,the protein data bank,the protein data bank [pdb; berman  westbrook et al. (2000)  nucleic acids res. 28  235-242; http://www.pdb.org/] is the single worldwide archive of primary structural data of biological macromolecules. many secondary sources of information are derived from pdb data. it is the starting point for studies in structural bioinformatics. this article describes the goals of the pdb  the systems in place for data deposition and access  how to obtain further information and plans for the future development of the resource. the reader should come away with an understanding of the scope of the pdb and what is provided by the resource.
1554,a transition in brain state during propofol-induced unconsciousness.,rhythmic oscillations shape cortical dynamics during active behavior  sleep  and general anesthesia. cross-frequency phase-amplitude coupling is a prominent feature of cortical oscillations  but its role in organizing conscious and unconscious brain states is poorly understood. using high-density eeg and intracranial electrocorticography during gradual induction of propofol general anesthesia in humans  we discovered a rapid drug-induced transition between distinct states with opposite phase-amplitude coupling and different cortical source distributions. one state occurs during unconsciousness and may be similar to sleep slow oscillations. a second state occurs at the loss or recovery of consciousness and resembles an enhanced slow cortical potential. these results provide objective electrophysiological landmarks of distinct unconscious brain states  and could be used to help improve eeg-based monitoring for general anesthesia.
1556,genome-wide patterns of divergence and gene flow across a butterfly radiation.,the heliconius butterflies are a diverse recent radiation comprising multiple levels of divergence with ongoing gene flow between species. the recently sequenced genome of heliconius melpomene allowed us to investigate the genomic evolution of this group using dense rad marker sequencing. phylogenetic analysis of 54 individuals robustly supported reciprocal monophyly of h. melpomene and heliconius cydno and refuted previous phylogenetic hypotheses that h. melpomene may be paraphylectic with respect to h. cydno. heliconius timareta also formed a monophyletic clade closely related but distinct from h. cydno with heliconius heurippa falling within this clade. we find evidence for genetic admixture between sympatric populations of the sister clades h. melpomene and h. cydno/timareta  particularly between h. cydno and h. melpomene from central america and between h. timareta and h. melpomene from the eastern slopes of the andes. between races  divergence is primarily explained by isolation by distance and there is no detectable genetic population structure between parapatric races  suggesting that hybrid zones between races are not zones of secondary contact. our results also support previous findings that colour pattern loci are shared between populations and species with similar colour pattern elements. furthermore  this pattern is almost unique to these genomic regions  with only a very small number of other loci showing significant similarity between populations and species with similar colour patterns.
1558,domain-wide regulation of dna replication timing during mammalian development,studies of replication timing provide a handle into previously impenetrable higher-order levels of chromosome organization and their plasticity during development. although mechanisms regulating replication timing are not clear  novel genome-wide studies provide a thorough survey of the extent to which replication timing is regulated during most of the early cell fate transitions in mammals  revealing coordinated changes of a defined set of 400–800 kb chromosomal segments that involve at least half the genome. furthermore  changes in replication time are linked to changes in sub-nuclear organization and domain-wide transcriptional potential  and tissue-specific replication timing profiles are conserved from mouse to human  suggesting that the program has developmental significance. hence  these studies have provided a solid foundation for linking megabase level chromosome structure to function  and suggest a central role for replication in domain-level genome organization.
1560,pharmacological blockage of fibro/adipogenic progenitor expansion and suppression of regenerative fibrogenesis is associated with impaired skeletal muscle regeneration.,acute skeletal muscle injury triggers an expansion of fibro/adipogenic progenitors (faps) and a transient stage of fibrogenesis characterized by extracellular matrix deposition. while the perpetuation of such phase can lead to permanent tissue scarring  the consequences of its suppression remain to be studied. using a model of acute muscle damage we were able to determine that pharmacological inhibition of fap expansion by nilotinib  a tyrosine kinase inhibitor with potent antifibrotic activity  exerts a detrimental effect on myogenesis during regeneration. we found that nilotinib inhibits the damage-induced expansion of satellite cells in vivo  but it does not affect in vitro proliferation  suggesting a non cell-autonomous effect. nilotinib impairs regenerative fibrogenesis by preventing the injury-triggered expansion and differentiation of resident cd45(-):cd31(-):α7integrin(-):sca1(+) mesenchymal faps. our data support the notion that the expansion of faps and transient fibrogenesis observed during regeneration play an important trophic role toward tissue-specific stem cells.
1562,the polymeal: a more natural  safer  and probably tastier (than the polypill) strategy to reduce cardiovascular disease by more than 75%.,objective although the polypill concept (proposed in 2003) is promising in terms of benefits for cardiovascular risk management  the potential costs and adverse effects are its main pitfalls. the objective of this study was to identify a tastier and safer alternative to the polypill: the polymeal. methods data on the ingredients of the polymeal were taken from the literature. the evidence based recipe included wine  fish  dark chocolate  fruits  vegetables  garlic  and almonds. data from the framingham heart study and the framingham offspring study were used to build life tables to model the benefits of the polymeal in the general population from age 50  assuming multiplicative correlations. results combining the ingredients of the polymeal would reduce cardiovascular disease events by 76%. for men  taking the polymeal daily represented an increase in total life expectancy of 6.6 years  an increase in life expectancy free from cardiovascular disease of 9.0 years  and a decrease in life expectancy with cardiovascular disease of 2.4 years. the corresponding differences for women were 4.8  8.1  and 3.3 years. conclusion the polymeal promises to be an effective  non-pharmacological  safe  cheap  and tasty alternative to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and increase life expectancy in the general population.
1564,use of perioperative hydroxyethyl starch 6% and albumin 5% in elective joint arthroplasty and association with adverse outcomes: a retrospective population based analysis,objective to determine whether the perioperative use of hydroxyethyl starch 6% and albumin 5% in elective joint arthroplasties are associated with an increased risk for perioperative complications. design retrospective cohort study of population based data between 2006 and 2013. setting data from 510 different hospitals across the united states participating in the premier perspective database. participants 1 051 441 patients undergoing elective total hip and knee arthroplasties. exposures perioperative fluid resuscitation with hydroxyethyl starch 6% or albumin 5%  or neither. main outcome measures acute renal failure and thromboembolic  cardiac  and pulmonary complications. results compared with patients who received neither colloid  perioperative fluid resuscitation with hydroxyethyl starch 6% or albumin 5% was associated with an increased risk of acute renal failure (odds ratios 1.23 (95% confidence interval 1.13 to 1.34) and 1.56 (1.36 to 1.78)  respectively) and most other complications. a recent decrease in hydroxyethyl starch 6% use was noted  whereas that of albumin 5% increased. conclusions similar to studies in critically ill patients  we showed that use of hydroxyethyl starch 6% was associated with an increased risk of acute renal failure and other complications in the elective perioperative orthopedic setting. this increased risk also applied to albumin 5%. these findings raise questions regarding the widespread use of these colloids in elective joint arthroplasty procedures.
1566,mechanisms of progression and regression of renal lesions of chronic nephropathies and diabetes.,the incidence of chronic kidney diseases is increasing worldwide  and these conditions are emerging as a major public health problem. while genetic factors contribute to susceptibility and progression of renal disease  proteinuria has been claimed as an independent predictor of outcome. reduction of urinary protein levels by various medications and a low-protein diet limits renal function decline in individuals with nondiabetic and diabetic nephropathies to the point that remission of the disease and regression of renal lesions have been observed in experimental animals and even in humans. in animal models  regression of glomerular structural changes is associated with remodeling of the glomerular architecture. instrumental to this discovery were 3d reconstruction studies of the glomerular capillary tuft  which allowed the quantification of sclerosis volume reduction and capillary regeneration upon treatment. regeneration of capillary segments might result from the contribution of resident cells  but progenitor cells of renal or extrarenal origin may also have a role. this review describes recent advances in our understanding of the mechanisms and mediators underlying renal tissue repair ultimately responsible for regression of renal injury.
1568,molecular mechanisms of vitamin d action,the hormonal metabolite of vitamin d  1α 25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 (1 25d)  initiates biological responses via binding to the vitamin d receptor (vdr). when occupied by 1 25d  vdr interacts with the retinoid x receptor (rxr) to form a heterodimer that binds to vitamin d responsive elements in the region of genes directly controlled by 1 25d. by recruiting complexes of either coactivators or corepressors  ligand-activated vdr-rxr modulates the transcription of genes encoding proteins that promulgate the traditional functions of vitamin d  including signaling intestinal calcium and phosphate absorption to effect skeletal and calcium homeostasis. thus  vitamin d action in a particular cell depends upon the metabolic production or delivery of sufficient concentrations of the 1 25d ligand  expression of adequate vdr and rxr coreceptor proteins  and cell-specific programming of transcriptional responses to regulate select genes that encode proteins that function in mediating the effects of vitamin d. for example  1 25d induces rankl  spp1 (osteopontin)  and bgp (osteocalcin) to govern bone mineral remodeling; trpv6  cabp9k  and claudin 2 to promote intestinal calcium absorption; and trpv5  klotho  and npt2c to regulate renal calcium and phosphate reabsorption. vdr appears to function unliganded by 1 25d in keratinocytes to drive mammalian hair cycling via regulation of genes such as casp14  s100a8  sostdc1  and others affecting wnt signaling. finally  alternative  low-affinity  non-vitamin d vdr ligands  e.g.  lithocholic acid  docosahexaenoic acid  and curcumin  have been reported. combined alternative vdr ligand(s) and 1 25d/vdr control of gene expression may delay chronic disorders of aging such as osteoporosis  type 2 diabetes  cardiovascular disease  and cancer.
1570,interactions between sleep  circadian function  and glucose metabolism: implications for risk and severity of diabetes.,sleep disturbances  including sleep insufficiency and sleep fragmentation  have been linked to abnormal glucose metabolism and increased diabetes risk. well-controlled laboratory studies have provided insights regarding the underlying mechanisms. several large prospective studies suggest that these sleep disturbances are associated with an increased risk of incident diabetes. obstructive sleep apnea  which combines sleep fragmentation and hypoxemia  is a major risk factor for insulin resistance and possibly diabetes. whether glycemic control in type 2 diabetes patients can be improved by treating sleep apnea remains controversial. recently  sleep disturbances during pregnancy and their relationship to gestational diabetes and hyperglycemia have received considerable attention owing to potential adverse effects on maternal and fetal health. additionally  evidence from animal models has identified disruption of the circadian system as a putative risk factor for adverse metabolic outcomes. the purpose of this review is to provide an update on the current state of knowledge linking sleep disturbances  circadian dysfunction  and glucose metabolism. experimental  prospective  and interventional studies are discussed.
1572,targeted therapy for cancer stem cells: the patched pathway and abc transporters,data from certain leukemias as well as brain and breast cancer indicate that there is a small population of tumor cells with ‘stem cell’ characteristics and the capacity for self-renewal. the self-renewing cells have many of the properties of normal stem cells and have been termed ‘cancer stem cells’. these cancer stem cells make up as few as 1% of the cells in a tumor  making them difficult to detect and study. like normal stem cells  cancer stem cells have a number of properties permitting them to survive traditional cancer chemotherapy and radiation therapy. these cells express high levels of atp-binding cassette (abc) drug transporters  providing for a level of resistance; are relatively quiescent; have higher levels of dna repair and a lowered ability to enter apoptosis. combined cancer therapy approaches targeting the cancer stem cells and the non-stem cells may be developed with increased efficacy. efforts to target the hedgehog/patched pathway  critical to embryonic growth and differentiation  and the abcg2 drug efflux transporter will be presented.
1574,basic residues in the t-cell receptor ζ cytoplasmic domain mediate membrane association and modulate signaling.,the t-cell receptor (tcr) consists of a tcrαβ heterodimer  a tcrζ homodimer  and cd3γε and cd3δε heterodimers. the precise mechanism of t-cell triggering following tcr ligand engagement remains elusive. previous studies reported that the cytoplasmic tail of cd3ε binds to the plasma membrane through a basic residue-rich stretch (brs) and proposed that dissociation from the membrane is required for phosphorylation thereof. in this report we show that brs motifs within the cytoplasmic tail of tcrζ mediate association with the plasma membrane and that tcr engagement results in tcrζ dissociation from the membrane. this dissociation requires phosphorylation of the tcrζ immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motifs by lymphocyte cell-specificprotein tyrosine kinase (lck) but not ζ-chain-associated protein kinase 70 binding. mutations of the tcrζ brs motifs that disrupt this membrane association attenuate proximal and distal responses induced by tcr engagement. these mutations appear to alter the localization of tcrζ with respect to lck as well as the mobility of the tcr complex. this study reveals that tyrosine phosphorylation of the tcrζ cytoplasmic domain regulates its association with the plasma membrane and highlights the functional importance of tcrζ brs motifs.
1576,effects of snf1 on maltose metabolism and leavening ability of baker's yeast in lean dough.,maltose metabolism of baker's yeast (saccharomyces cerevisiae) in lean dough is negatively influenced by glucose repression  thereby delaying the dough fermentation. to improve maltose metabolism and leavening ability  it is necessary to alleviate glucose repression. the snf1 protein kinase is well known to be essential for the response to glucose repression and required for transcription of glucose-repressed genes including the maltose-utilization genes (mal). in this study  the snf1 overexpression and deletion industrial baker's yeast strains were constructed and characterized in terms of maltose utilization  growth and fermentation characteristics  mrna levels of mal genes (mal62 encoding the maltase and mal61 encoding the maltose permease) and maltase and maltose permease activities. our results suggest that overexpression of snf1 was effective to glucose derepression for enhancing mal expression levels and enzymes (maltase and maltose permease) activities. these enhancements could result in an 18% increase in maltose metabolism of industrial baker's yeast in lsmld medium (the low sugar model liquid dough fermentation medium) containing glucose and maltose and a 15% increase in leavening ability in lean dough. these findings provide a valuable insight of breeding industrial baker's yeast for rapid fermentation.
1578,pd-l1 expression in human cancers and its association with clinical outcomes,pd-l1 is an immunoinhibitory molecule that suppresses the activation of t cells  leading to the progression of tumors. overexpression of pd-l1 in cancers such as gastric cancer  hepatocellular carcinoma  renal cell carcinoma  esophageal cancer  pancreatic cancer  ovarian cancer  and bladder cancer is associated with poor clinical outcomes. in contrast  pd-l1 expression correlates with better clinical outcomes in breast cancer and merkel cell carcinoma. the prognostic value of pd-l1 expression in lung cancer  colorectal cancer  and melanoma is controversial. blocking antibodies that target pd-1 and pd-l1 have achieved remarkable response rates in cancer patients who have pd-l1-overexpressing tumors. however  using pd-l1 as an exclusive predictive biomarker for cancer immunotherapy is questionable due to the low accuracy of pd-l1 immunohistochemistry staining. factors that affect the accuracy of pd-l1 immunohistochemistry staining are as follows. first  antibodies used in different studies have different sensitivity. second  in different studies  the cut-off value of pd-l1 staining positivity is different. third  pd-l1 expression in tumors is not uniform  and sampling time and location may affect the results of pd-l1 staining. therefore  better understanding of tumor microenvironment and use of other biomarkers such as gene marker and combined index are necessary to better identify patients who will benefit from pd-1/pd-l1 checkpoint blockade therapy.
1580,genome sequencing and analysis of the tasmanian devil and its transmissible cancer,the tasmanian devil (sarcophilus harrisii)  the largest marsupial carnivore  is endangered due to a transmissible facial cancer spread by direct transfer of living cancer cells through biting. here we describe the sequencing  assembly  and annotation of the tasmanian devil genome and whole-genome sequences for two geographically distant subclones of the cancer. genomic analysis suggests that the cancer first arose from a female tasmanian devil and that the clone has subsequently genetically diverged during its spread across tasmania. the devil cancer genome contains more than 17 000 somatic base substitution mutations and bears the imprint of a distinct mutational process. genotyping of somatic mutations in 104 geographically and temporally distributed tasmanian devil tumors reveals the pattern of evolution and spread of this parasitic clonal lineage  with evidence of a selective sweep in one geographical area and persistence of parallel lineages in other populations.
1582,a map of human circular rnas in clinically relevant tissues,cellular circular rnas (circrnas) are generated by head-to-tail splicing and are present in all multicellular organisms studied so far. recently  circrnas have emerged as a large class of rna which can function as post-transcriptional regulators. it has also been shown that many circrnas are tissue- and stage-specifically expressed. moreover  the unusual stability and expression specificity make circrnas important candidates for clinical biomarker research. here  we present a circrna expression resource of 20 human tissues highly relevant to disease-related research: vascular smooth muscle cells (vsmcs)  human umbilical vein cells (huvecs)  artery endothelial cells (huaecs)  atrium  vena cava  neutrophils  platelets  cerebral cortex  placenta  and samples from mesenchymal stem cell differentiation. in eight different samples from a single donor  we found highly tissue-specific circrna expression. circular-to-linear rna ratios revealed that many circrnas were expressed higher than their linear host transcripts. among the 71 validated circrnas  we noticed potential biomarkers. in adenosine deaminase-deficient  severe combined immunodeficiency (ada-scid) patients and in wiskott-aldrich-syndrome (was) patients' samples  we found evidence for differential circrna expression of genes that are involved in the molecular pathogenesis of both phenotypes. our findings underscore the need to assess circrnas in mechanisms of human disease. key messages: circrna resource catalog of 20 clinically relevant tissues. circrna expression is highly tissue-specific. circrna transcripts are often more abundant than their linear host rnas. circrnas can be differentially expressed in disease-associated genes.
1584,synergistic activation of hiv-1 expression by deacetylase inhibitors and prostratin: implications for treatment of latent infection,the persistence of transcriptionally silent but replication-competent hiv-1 reservoirs in highly active anti-retroviral therapy (haart)-treated infected individuals  represents a major hurdle to virus eradication. activation of hiv-1 gene expression in these cells together with an efficient haart has been proposed as an adjuvant therapy aimed at decreasing the pool of latent viral reservoirs. using the latently-infected u1 monocytic cell line and latently-infected j-lat t-cell clones  we here demonstrated a strong synergistic activation of hiv-1 production by clinically used histone deacetylase inhibitors (hdacis) combined with prostratin  a non-tumor-promoting nuclear factor (nf)- kappab inducer. in j-lat cells  we showed that this synergism was due  at least partially  to the synergistic recruitment of unresponsive cells into the expressing cell population. a combination of prostratin+hdaci synergistically activated the 5' long terminal repeat (5'ltr) from hiv-1 major group subtypes representing the most prevalent viral genetic forms  as shown by transient transfection reporter assays. mechanistically  hdacis increased prostratin-induced dna-binding activity of nuclear nf-kappab and degradation of cytoplasmic nf-kappab inhibitor  ikappabalpha . moreover  the combined treatment prostratin+hdaci caused a more pronounced nucleosomal remodeling in the u1 viral promoter region than the treatments with the compounds alone. this more pronounced remodeling correlated with a synergistic reactivation of hiv-1 transcription following the combined treatment prostratin+hdaci  as demonstrated by measuring recruitment of rna polymerase ii to the 5'ltr and both initiated and elongated transcripts. the physiological relevance of the prostratin+hdaci synergism was shown in cd8(+)-depleted peripheral blood mononuclear cells from haart-treated patients with undetectable viral load. moreover  this combined treatment reactivated viral replication in resting cd4(+) t cells isolated from similar patients. our results suggest that combinations of different kinds of proviral activators may have important implications for reducing the size of latent hiv-1 reservoirs in haart-treated patients.
1586,autonomic neuropathy  qt interval lengthening  and unexpected deaths in male diabetic patients,qt intervals were measured over rr intervals ranging from 500 ms to 1000 ms in 13 normal male subjects  13 male diabetic subjects without and 13 with autonomic neuropathy. there was a close linear relationship between qt and rr in all subjects. the slope of the regression line was significantly greater in the autonomic neuropathy group than the normal group. thirty-two male diabetic subjects with varying degrees of autonomic dysfunction had repeat qt measurements 3 (range 2–6) years later. qt and qtc lengthened significantly at the second visit  unrelated to age or time between recordings  but which corresponded with changes in autonomic function. of 71 male diabetic subjects under 60 years followed for 3 years  13 had died  8 unexpectedly. of those with autonomic neuropathy  qt and qtc were significantly longer in those who subsequently died  despite similar ages and duration of diabetes. we conclude that qt/rr interval relationships are altered in diabetic autonomic neuropathy  and that changes in qt length with time parallel changese in autonomic function. there may be an association between qt interval prolongation and the risk of dying unexpectedly in diabetic autonomic neuropathy.
1588,nucleating actin for invasion,the invasion of cancer cells into the surrounding tissue is a prerequisite and initial step in metastasis  which is the leading cause of death from cancer. invasive cell migration requires the formation of various structures  such as invadopodia and pseudopodia  which require actin assembly that is regulated by specialized actin nucleation factors. there is a large variety of different actin nucleators in human cells  such as formins  spire and arp2/3-regulating proteins  and the list is likely to grow. studies of the mechanisms of various actin nucleation factors that are involved in cancer cell function may ultimately provide new treatments for invasive and metastatic disease.
1590,an rna-directed nuclease mediates post-transcriptional gene silencing in drosophila cells.,in a diverse group of organisms that includes caenorhabditis elegans  drosophila  planaria  hydra  trypanosomes  fungi and plants  the introduction of double-stranded rnas inhibits gene expression in a sequence-specific manner. these responses  called rna interference or post-transcriptional gene silencing  may provide anti-viral defence  modulate transposition or regulate gene expression. we have taken a biochemical approach towards elucidating the mechanisms underlying this genetic phenomenon. here we show that 'loss-of-function' phenotypes can be created in cultured drosophila cells by transfection with specific double-stranded rnas. this coincides with a marked reduction in the level of cognate cellular messenger rnas. extracts of transfected cells contain a nuclease activity that specifically degrades exogenous transcripts homologous to transfected double-stranded rna. this enzyme contains an essential rna component. after partial purification  the sequence-specific nuclease co-fractionates with a discrete  approximately 25-nucleotide rna species which may confer specificity to the enzyme through homology to the substrate mrnas.
1592,exosomes in plasma of patients with ovarian carcinoma: potential biomarkers of tumor progression and response to therapy.,background in patients with ovarian cancer (ovca) exosomes released by tumor cells are present in the plasma and could be involved in tumor progression. this study examines the association between the exosome presence/protein content in plasma of ovca patients and disease outcome  response to standard therapy and/or tumorresistance to therapies in patients studied at diagnosis and also serially during and after therapy. design and methods exosomes were purified from ovca patients' plasma (n=22)  patients with benign tumors (n=10) or (n=10) healthy controls (nc) using ultracentrifugation. exosomes were visualized by scanning electron microscopy. their protein content was measured. the presence of mage 3/6 and tgf-β1 in exosomes was evaluated in western blots. results the ovca patients' plasma contained higher levels of exosomal proteins (p<0.05) compared to those isolated from plasma of patients with benign tumors or nc. exosomes isolated from ovca patients's plasma carried tgf-β1 and mage3/6  which distinguished ovca patients from those with benign tumors and nc. high protein levels of exosomes were seen in newly diagnosed patients; however in advanced stages of ovca patients the protein content of isolated exosomes was significantly higher than that of early stages. the exosome levels variably changed during/after chemotherapy  and correlations between the changes in exosomal protein levels and clinical data suggested that the protein content of exosomes might be useful in predicting responses to therapy and prognosis in ovca patients. conclusion analysis of plasma exosomes levels offers a novel approach to diagnosis and monitoring response to therapies in ovca patients.
1594,chronic pancreatitis is essential for induction of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma by k-ras oncogenes in adult mice.,pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (pda)  one of the deadliest human cancers  often involves somatic activation of k-ras oncogenes. we report that selective expression of an endogenous k-ras(g12v) oncogene in embryonic cells of acinar/centroacinar lineage results in pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasias (panins) and invasive pda  suggesting that pda originates by differentiation of acinar/centroacinar cells or their precursors into ductal-like cells. surprisingly  adult mice become refractory to k-ras(g12v)-induced panins and pda. however  if these mice are challenged with a mild form of chronic pancreatitis  they develop the full spectrum of panins and invasive pda. these observations suggest that  during adulthood  pda stems from a combination of genetic (e.g.  somatic k-ras mutations) and nongenetic (e.g.  tissue damage) events.
1596,the ic(50) of anti-pfs25 antibody in membrane-feeding assay varies among species.,plasmodium falciparum surface protein 25 (pfs25) is a candidate for transmission-blocking vaccines (tbvs). anti-pfs25 antibodies block the development of oocysts in membrane-feeding assays and we have shown the activity correlates with antibody titer. in this study  we purified pfs25-specific iggs to convert antibody titer to microg/ml and determined the amount of antibody required to inhibit 50% of oocyst development (ic(50)). the ic(50) were  15.9  4.2  41.2  and 85.6microg/ml for mouse  rabbit  monkey and human  respectively  and the differences among species were significant. anti-pfs25 sera from rabbit  monkey and human showed different patterns of competition against 6 mouse monoclonal antibodies  and the avidity of antibodies among four species were also different. these data suggests that information obtained from animal studies which assess efficacy of tbv candidates may be difficult to translate to human immunization.
1598,lipopolysaccharide-dependent prostaglandin e(2) production is regulated by the glutathione-dependent prostaglandin e(2) synthase gene induced by the toll-like receptor 4/myd88/nf-il6 pathway.,macrophages produce a large amount of pge(2) during inflammation. this lipid mediator modulates various immune responses. pge(2) acts on macrophages and inhibits production of cytokines such as tnf-alpha and il-12. membrane-bound glutathione-dependent pge(2) synthase (mpges) has been shown to be a terminal enzyme of the cyclooxygenase-2-mediated pge(2) biosynthesis. here we identified mpges as a molecule that is induced by lps in macrophages. the expression of mpges was not induced by lps in mice lacking toll-like receptor 4 or myd88. furthermore  mice deficient in nf-il6 showed neither induction of mpges nor biosynthesis of pge(2) in response to lps  indicating that mpges expression in response to lps is regulated by a toll-like receptor 4/myd88/nf-il6-dependent signaling pathway. we generated mpges-deficient mice and investigated the role of mpges in vivo. the mice showed no augmentation of the pge(2) production in response to lps. however  they were not impaired in the lps-induced production of inflammatory cytokines and showed normal response to the lps-induced shock. thus  mpges is critically involved in the biosynthesis of pge(2) induced by lps  but is dispensable for the modulation of inflammatory responses.
1600,early lymphocyte expansion is severely impaired in interleukin 7 receptor-deficient mice,interleukin 7 (il-7) stimulates the proliferation of b cell progenitors  thymocytes  and mature t cells through an interaction with a high affinity receptor (il-7r) belonging to the hematopoietin receptor superfamily. we have further addressed the role of il-7 and its receptor during b and t cell development by generating mice genetically deficient in il-7r. mutant mice display a profound reduction in thymic and peripheral lymphoid cellularity. analyses of lymphoid progenitor populations in il-7r-deficient mice define precisely those developmental stages affected by the mutation and reveal a critical role for il-7r during early lymphoid development. significantly  these studies indicate that the phase of thymocyte expansion occurring before the onset of t cell receptor gene rearrangement is critically dependent upon  and mediated by the high affinity receptor for il-7.
1602,distribution of dystrophin- and utrophin-associated protein complexes during activation of human neutrophils.,objective dystrophins  utrophins  and their associated proteins are involved in structural and signaling roles in nonmuscle tissues; however  description of these proteins in neutrophils remained unexplored. therefore we characterize the pattern expression  and the cellular distribution of dystrophin and utrophin gene products and dystrophin-associated proteins (i.e.  beta-dystroglycan  alpha-syntrophin  and alpha-dystrobrevins) in relation to actin filaments in resting and activated with formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine human neutrophils. materials and methods resting and fmlp-activated human neutrophils were analyzed by immunoblot and by confocal microscopy analysis. immunoprecipitation assays were performed to corroborate the presence of protein complexes. results immunoprecipitation assays and confocal analysis demonstrated the presence of two dystrophin-associated protein complexes in resting and activated neutrophils: the former formed by dp71d/dp71delta(110)(m) and dystrophin-associated proteins (beta-dystroglycan  alpha-syntrophin  alpha-dystrobrevin-1  and -2)  while the latter contains up400  instead of dp71d/dp71delta(110)(m)  as a central component of the dystrophin-associated protein complexes (dapc). confocal analysis also showed the subcellular redistribution of dp71d/dp71delta(110)(m) approximately dapc and up400 approximately dapc in f-actin-based structures displayed during activation process with fmlp. conclusions our study showed the existence of two protein complexes formed by dp71d/dp71delta(110)(m) or up400 associated with daps in resting and fmlp-treated human polymorphonuclears. the interaction of these complexes with the actin cytoskeleton is indicative of their dynamic participation in the chemotaxis process.
1604,identification of a novel p53 functional domain that is necessary for mediating apoptosis.,the ability of p53 to induce apoptosis requires its sequence-specific dna binding activity; however  the transactivation-deficient p53(gln22-ser23) can still induce apoptosis. previously  we have shown that the region between residues 23 and 97 in p53 is necessary for such activity. in an effort to more precisely map a domain necessary for apoptosis within the n terminus  we found that deletion of the n-terminal 23 amino acids compromises  but does not abolish  p53 induction of apoptosis. surprisingly  p53(delta1-42)  which lacks the n-terminal 42 amino acids and the previously defined activation domain  retains the ability to induce apoptosis to an even higher level than wild-type p53. a more extensive deletion  which eliminates the n-terminal 63 amino acids  renders p53 completely inert in mediating apoptosis. in addition  we found that both p53(delta1-42) and p53(gln22-ser23) can activate a subset of cellular p53 targets. furthermore  we showed that residues 53 and 54 are critical for the apoptotic and transcriptional activities of both p53(delta1-42) and p53(gln22-ser23). taken together  these data suggest that within residues 43-63 lie an apoptotic domain as well as another transcriptional activation domain. we therefore postulate that the apoptotic activity in p53(gln22-ser23) and p53(delta1-42) is still transcription-dependent.
1606,involvement of lysosomal dysfunction in autophagosome accumulation and early pathologies in adipose tissue of obese mice,whether obesity accelerates or suppresses autophagy in adipose tissue is still debatable. to clarify dysregulation of autophagy and its role in pathologies of obese adipose tissue  we focused on lysosomal function  protease maturation and activity  both in vivo and in vitro. first  we showed that autophagosome formation was accelerated  but autophagic clearance was impaired in obese adipose tissue. we also found protein and activity levels of ctsl (cathepsin l) were suppressed in obese adipose tissue  while the activity of ctsb (cathepsin b) was significantly enhanced. moreover  cellular senescence and inflammasomes were activated in obese adipose tissue. in 3t3l1 adipocytes  downregulation of ctsl deteriorated autophagic clearance  upregulated expression of ctsb  promoted cellular senescence and activated inflammasomes. upregulation of ctsb promoted additional activation of inflammasomes. therefore  we suggest lysosomal dysfunction observed in obese adipose tissue leads to lower autophagic clearance  resulting in autophagosome accumulation. simultaneously  lysosomal abnormalities  including deteriorated ctsl function and compensatory activation of ctsb  caused cellular senescence and inflammasome activation. our findings strongly suggest lysosomal dysfunction is involved in early pathologies of obese adipose tissue.
1608,effects of hypoxia and oxidative stress on expression of neprilysin in human neuroblastoma cells and rat cortical neurones and astrocytes,pathogenesis of alzheimer’s disease (ad)  which is characterised by accumulation of extracellular deposits of β-amyloid peptide (aβ) in the brain  has recently been linked to vascular disorders such as ischemia and stroke. aβ is constantly produced in the brain from amyloid precursor protein (app) through its cleavage by β- and γ-secretases and certain aβ species are toxic for neurones. the brain has an endogenous mechanism of aβ removal via proteolytic degradation and the zinc metalloproteinase neprilysin (nep) is a critical regulator of aβ concentration. down-regulation of nep could predispose to ad. by comparing the effects of hypoxia and oxidative stress on expression and activity of the aβ-degrading enzyme nep in human neuroblastoma nb7 cells and rat primary cortical neurones we have demonstrated that hypoxia reduced nep expression at the protein and mrna levels as well as its activity. on contrary in astrocytes hypoxia increased nep mrna expression.
1610,molecular mechanisms of (-)-epicatechin and chlorogenic acid on the regulation of the apoptotic and survival/proliferation pathways in a human hepatoma cell line.,dietary polyphenols have been associated with reduced risk of chronic diseases  but the precise molecular mechanisms of protection remain unclear. this work was aimed at studying the effect of (-)-epicatechin (ec) and chlorogenic acid (cga) on the regulation of apoptotic and survival/proliferation pathways in a human hepatoma cell line (hepg2). ec or cga treatment for 18 h had a slight effect on cell viability and decreased reactive oxygen species formation  and ec alone promoted cell proliferation  whereas cga increased glutathione levels. phenols neither induced the caspase cascade for apoptosis nor affected expression levels of bcl-xl or bax. a sustained activation of the major survival signals akt/pi-3-kinase and erk was shown in ec-treated cells  rather than in cga-exposed cells. these data suggest that ec and cga have no effect on apoptosis and enhance the intrinsic cellular tolerance against oxidative insults either by activating survival/proliferation pathways or by increasing antioxidant potential in hepg2.
1612,the snf1 kinase controls glucose repression in yeast by modulating interactions between the mig1 repressor and the cyc8-tup1 co-repressor.,among lower eukaryotes  glucose repression is a conserved  widely spread mechanism regulating carbon catabolism. the yeast snf1 kinase  the mig1 dna-binding repressor and the mig1-interacting co-repressor complex cyc8(ssn6)-tup1 are central components of this pathway. previous experiments suggested that cytoplasmic translocation of mig1  upon its phosphorylation by snf1 in the nucleus  is the key regulatory step for releasing glucose repression. in this report we re-evaluate this model. we establish the coordinated repressive action of mig1 and cyc8-tup1 on gal1 transcription  but we find that cyc8-tup1 is not tethered by mig1 to the promoter dna. we demonstrate that both negative regulators occupy gal1 continuously under either repression or activation conditions  although the majority of the mig1 is redistributed to the cytoplasm upon activation. we show that snf1-dependent phosphorylation of mig1 abolishes interaction with cyc8-tup1  and we propose that regulation of this interaction  not the mig1 cytoplasmic localization  is the molecular switch that controls transcriptional repression/de-repression.
1614,the als-associated proteins fus and tdp-43 function together to affect drosophila locomotion and life span.,the fatal adult motor neuron disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (als) shares some clinical and pathological overlap with frontotemporal dementia (ftd)  an early-onset neurodegenerative disorder. the rna/dna-binding proteins fused in sarcoma (fus; also known as tls) and tar dna binding protein-43 (tdp-43) have recently been shown to be genetically and pathologically associated with familial forms of als and ftd. it is currently unknown whether perturbation of these proteins results in disease through mechanisms that are independent of normal protein function or via the pathophysiological disruption of molecular processes in which they are both critical. here  we report that drosophila mutants in which the homolog of fus is disrupted exhibit decreased adult viability  diminished locomotor speed  and reduced life span compared with controls. these phenotypes were fully rescued by wild-type human fus  but not als-associated mutant fus proteins. a mutant of the drosophila homolog of tdp-43 had similar  but more severe  deficits. through cross-rescue analysis  we demonstrated that fus acted together with and downstream of tdp-43 in a common genetic pathway in neurons. furthermore  we found that these proteins associated with each other in an rna-dependent complex. our results establish that fus and tdp-43 function together in vivo and suggest that molecular pathways requiring the combined activities of both of these proteins may be disrupted in als and ftd.
1616,inflammation-induced tumorigenesis in the colon is regulated by caspase-1 and nlrc4.,chronic inflammation is a known risk factor for tumorigenesis  yet the precise mechanism of this association is currently unknown. the inflammasome  a multiprotein complex formed by nod-like receptor (nlr) family members  has recently been shown to orchestrate multiple innate and adaptive immune responses  yet its potential role in inflammation-induced cancer has been little studied. using the azoxymethane and dextran sodium sulfate colitis-associated colorectal cancer model  we show that caspase-1-deficient (casp1(-/-)) mice have enhanced tumor formation. surprisingly  the role of caspase-1 in tumorigenesis was not through regulation of colonic inflammation  but rather through regulation of colonic epithelial cell proliferation and apoptosis. consequently  caspase-1-deficient mice demonstrate increased colonic epithelial cell proliferation in early stages of injury-induced tumor formation and reduced apoptosis in advanced tumors. we suggest a model in which the nlrc4 inflammasome is central to colonic inflammation-induced tumor formation through regulation of epithelial cell response to injury.
1618,dietary factors in chronic inflammation: food tolerances and intolerances of a new zealand caucasian crohn's disease population.,diet is known to play a major role in the symptoms of the inflammatory bowel disease  crohn's disease (cd). although no single diet is appropriate to all individuals  most cd patients are aware of foods that provide adverse or beneficial effects. this study seeks to categorise foods in relation to their effects on symptoms of cd  in a new zealand caucasian population. four hundred and forty-six subjects from two different centres in new zealand were recruited into the study. an extensive dietary questionnaire (257 food items in 15 groups) recorded self-reported dietary tolerances and intolerances. across each of the food groups  there were statistically significant differences among responses to foods. a two-dimensional graphical summary enabled stratification of foods according to the probability that they will be either beneficial or detrimental. a small number of foods are frequently considered to be beneficial  including white fish  salmon and tuna  gluten-free products  oatmeal  bananas  boiled potatoes  sweet potatoes (kumara)  pumpkin  soya milk  goat's milk and yoghurt. foods that are typically considered detrimental include grapefruit  chilli or chilli sauce  corn and corn products  peanuts  cream  salami  curried foods  cola drinks  high energy drinks  beer  and red wine. for a number of the food items  the same item that was beneficial for one group of subjects was detrimental to others; in particular soya milk  goat's milk  yoghurt  oatmeal  kiwifruit  prunes  apple  broccoli  cauliflower  linseed  pumpkin seed  sunflower seed  ginger and ginger products  beef  lamb  liver  and oily fish. it was not possible to identify a specific group of food items that should be avoided by all cd patients. the wide range of detrimental items suggests that dietary maintenance of remission is likely to be difficult  and to exclude a substantial number of foods. personalised diets may be especially important to these individuals.
1620,discovery of endogenous catecholamines in lymphocytes and evidence for catecholamine regulation of lymphocyte function via an autocrine loop.,evidence has been obtained that catecholamines and their metabolites are present in single lymphocytes and extracts of t- and b-cell clones by use of capillary electrophoresis with electrochemical detection. pharmacological inhibition of tyrosine hydroxylase reduces observed catecholamine levels  suggesting catecholamine synthesis by lymphocytes. intracellular dopamine levels are shown to be increased by extra-cellular dopamine  suggesting a cellular-uptake mechanism. furthermore  incubation with either dopamine or l-dihydroxyphenylalanine  a precursor of dopamine  results in a dose-dependent inhibition of lymphocyte proliferation and differentiation. together  these results suggest the presence of an autocrine loop whereby lymphocytes down-regulate their own activity.
1622,comparisons of patient and physician expectations for cancer survivorship care.,purpose to compare expectations for cancer survivorship care between patients and their physicians and between primary care providers (pcps) and oncologists. methods survivors and their physicians were surveyed to evaluate for expectations regarding physician participation in primary cancer follow-up  screening for other cancers  general preventive health  and management of comorbidities. results of 992 eligible survivors and 607 physicians surveyed  535 (54%) and 378 (62%) were assessable  respectively. among physician respondents  255 (67%) were pcps and 123 (33%) were oncologists. comparing patients with their oncologists  expectations were highly discrepant for screening for cancers other than the index one (agreement rate  29%)  with patients anticipating significantly more oncologist involvement. between patients and their pcps  expectations were most incongruent for primary cancer follow-up (agreement rate  35%)  with pcps indicating they should contribute a much greater part to this aspect of care. expectations between patients and their pcps were generally more concordant than between patients and their oncologists. pcps and oncologists showed high discordances in perceptions of their own roles for primary cancer follow-up  cancer screening  and general preventive health (agreement rates of 3%  44%  and 51%  respectively). in the case of primary cancer follow-up  both pcps and oncologists indicated they should carry substantial responsibility for this task. conclusion patients and physicians have discordant expectations with respect to the roles of pcps and oncologists in cancer survivorship care. uncertainties around physician roles and responsibilities can lead to deficiencies in care  supporting the need to make survivorship care planning a standard component in cancer management.
1624,t cell receptor-proximal signals are sustained in peripheral microclusters and terminated in the central supramolecular activation cluster.,t cell receptor (tcr) signaling is initiated and sustained in microclusters; however  it's not known whether signaling also occurs in the tcr-rich central supramolecular activation cluster (csmac). we showed that the csmac formed by fusion of microclusters contained more cd45 than microclusters and is a site enriched in lysobisphosphatidic acid  a lipid involved in sorting ubiquitinated membrane proteins for degradation. calcium signaling via tcr was blocked within 2 min by anti-mhcp treatment and 1 min by latrunculin-a treatment. tcr-mhcp interactions in the csmac survived these perturbations for 10 min and hence were not sufficient to sustain signaling. tcr microclusters were also resistant to disruption by anti-mhcp and latrunculin-a treatments. we propose that tcr signaling is sustained by stabilized microclusters and is terminated in the csmac  a structure from which tcr are sorted for degradation. our studies reveal a role for f-actin in tcr signaling beyond microcluster formation.
1626,vascular responsiveness in isolated perfused kidneys of diabetic hypertensive rats.,objective the aim of this study was to investigate whether diabetes and hypertension cause additive effects in the responses to various vasoconstrictor and vasodilator agents  in isolated perfused kidneys obtained from streptozotocin (stz)-diabetic wistar-kyoto (wky) rats and from diabetic spontaneously hypertensive rats (shr). methods shr and wky rats were administered stz 55 mg/kg by intravenous injection into a lateral tail vein at age 12 weeks. eight weeks later the kidneys were isolated and perfused via the left renal artery with a physiological salt solution. renal perfusion pressure was measured continuously. concentration response curves were plotted for various vasoconstrictor and vasodilator agents. results both the diabetic and the hypertensive state were associated with an increased wet kidney weight. the contractile responses of the renal arterial system to phenylephrine (phe)  serotonin (5-ht) and angiotensin ii (ang ii) in terms both of the maximal rise in perfusion pressure (mmhg) and of the sensitivity (log ec50) were the same in preparations from diabetic wky rats and in those from normoglycaemic wky rats. the maximal contractile responses both to phe and to ang ii were enhanced in kidneys from shr compared with those in kidneys from their normotensive controls  whereas simultaneously occurring diabetes impaired this sensitization. after precontraction with 3 x 10(-6) mol/l phe both endothelium-dependent (methacholine) and endothelium-independent (sodium nitroprusside) vasodilator drugs caused the same vasodilator response in the preparations taken from the four groups of animals. conclusion in isolated perfused kidneys obtained from stz-diabetic wky rats and shr  the isolated diabetic state did not influence the vasoconstriction caused by various agonists. however  the enhanced vascular reactivity in the hypertensive state was blunted by simultaneously occurring diabetes mellitus. endothelium-dependent and -independent vasorelaxation in this model was not affected neither by the hypertensive nor by the diabetic state.
1628, dna methylation and healthy human aging,the process of aging results in a host of changes at the cellular and molecular levels  which include senescence  telomere shortening  and changes in gene expression. epigenetic patterns also change over the lifespan  suggesting that epigenetic changes may constitute an important component of the aging process. the epigenetic mark that has been most highly studied is dna methylation  the presence of methyl groups at cpg dinucleotides. these dinucleotides are often located near gene promoters and associate with gene expression levels. early studies indicated that global levels of dna methylation increase over the first few years of life and then decrease beginning in late adulthood. recently  with the advent of microarray and next-generation sequencing technologies  increases in variability of dna methylation with age have been observed  and a number of site-specific patterns have been identified. it has also been shown that certain cpg sites are highly associated with age  to the extent that prediction models using a small number of these sites can accurately predict the chronological age of the donor. together  these observations point to the existence of two phenomena that both contribute to age-related dna methylation changes: epigenetic drift and the epigenetic clock. in this review  we focus on healthy human aging throughout the lifetime and discuss the dynamics of dna methylation as well as how interactions between the genome  environment  and the epigenome influence aging rates. we also discuss the impact of determining 'epigenetic age' for human health and outline some important caveats to existing and future studies.
1630,molecular basis of synaptic vesicle cargo recognition by the endocytic sorting adaptor stonin 2,synaptic transmission depends on clathrin-mediated recycling of synaptic vesicles (svs). how select sv proteins are targeted for internalization has remained elusive. stonins are evolutionarily conserved adaptors dedicated to endocytic sorting of the sv protein synaptotagmin. our data identify the molecular determinants for recognition of synaptotagmin by stonin 2 or its caenorhabditis elegans orthologue unc-41b. the interaction involves the direct association of clusters of basic residues on the surface of the cytoplasmic domain of synaptotagmin 1 and a beta strand within the mu-homology domain of stonin 2. mutation of k783  y784  and e785 to alanine within this stonin 2 beta strand results in failure of the mutant stonin protein to associate with synaptotagmin  to accumulate at synapses  and to facilitate synaptotagmin internalization. synaptotagmin-binding-defective unc-41b is unable to rescue paralysis in c. elegans stonin mutant animals  suggesting that the mechanism of stonin-mediated sv cargo recognition is conserved from worms to mammals.
1632,the intravascular volume effect of ringer's lactate is below 20%: a prospective study in humans,introduction isotonic crystalloids play a central role in perioperative fluid management. isooncotic preparations of colloids (for example  human albumin or hydroxyethyl starch) remain nearly completely intravascular when infused to compensate for acute blood losses. recent data were interpreted to indicate a comparable intravascular volume effect for crystalloids  challenging the occasionally suggested advantage of using colloids to treat hypovolemia. general physiological knowledge and clinical experience  however  suggest otherwise. methods in a prospective study  double-tracer blood volume measurements were performed before and after intended normovolemic hemodilution in ten female adults  simultaneously substituting the three-fold amount of withdrawn blood with ringer's lactate. any originated deficits were substituted with half the volume of 20% human albumin  followed by a further assessment of blood volume. to assess significance between the measurements  repeated measures analysis of variance (anova) according to fisher were performed. if significant results were shown  paired t tests (according to student) for the singular measurements were taken. p < 0.05 was considered to be significant. results a total of 1 097 ± 285 ml of whole blood were withdrawn (641 ± 155 ml/m(2) body surface area) and simultaneously replaced by 3 430 ± 806 ml of ringer's lactate. all patients showed a significant decrease in blood volume after hemodilution (-459 ± 185 ml; p < 0.05) that did not involve relevant hemodynamical changes  and a significant increase in interstitial water content (+2 157 ± 606 ml; p < 0.05). the volume effect of ringer's lactate was 17 ± 10%. the infusion of 245 ± 64 ml of 20% human albumin in this situation restored blood volume back to baseline values  the volume effect being 184 ± 63%. conclusions substitution of isolated intravascular deficits in cardiopulmonary healthy adults with the three-fold amount of ringer's lactate impedes maintenance of intravascular normovolemia. the main side effect was an impressive interstitial fluid accumulation  which was partly restored by the intravenous infusion of 20% human albumin. we recommend to substitute the five-fold amount of crystalloids or to use an isooncotic preparation in the face of acute bleeding in patients where edema prevention might be advantageous.
1634,varna: interactive drawing and editing of the rna secondary structure,description varna is a tool for the automated drawing  visualization and annotation of the secondary structure of rna  designed as a companion software for web servers and databases. features varna implements four drawing algorithms  supports input/output using the classic formats dbn  ct  bpseq and rnaml and exports the drawing as five picture formats  either pixel-based (jpeg  png) or vector-based (svg  eps and xfig). it also allows manual modification and structural annotation of the resulting drawing using either an interactive point and click approach  within a web server or through command-line arguments. availability varna is a free software  released under the terms of the gplv3.0 license and available at http://varna.lri.fr. supplementary information supplementary data are available at bioinformatics online.
1636,the dna polymerase activity of pol ε holoenzyme is required for rapid and efficient chromosomal dna replication in xenopus egg extracts,dna polymerase ε (pol ε) is involved in dna replication  repair  and cell-cycle checkpoint control in eukaryotic cells. although the roles of replicative pol α and pol δ in chromosomal dna replication are relatively well understood and well documented  the precise role of pol ε in chromosomal dna replication is not well understood. this study uses a xenopus egg extract dna replication system to further elucidate the replicative role(s) played by pol ε. previous studies show that the initiation timing and elongation of chromosomal dna replication are markedly impaired in pol ε-depleted xenopus egg extracts  with reduced accumulation of replicative intermediates and products. this study shows that normal replication is restored by addition of pol ε holoenzyme to pol ε-depleted extracts  but not by addition of polymerase-deficient forms of pol ε  including polymerase point or deletion mutants or incomplete enzyme complexes. evidence is also provided that pol ε holoenzyme interacts directly with gins  cdc45p and cut5p  each of which plays an important role in initiation of chromosomal dna replication in eukaryotic cells. these results indicate that the dna polymerase activity of pol ε holoenzyme plays an essential role in normal chromosomal dna replication in xenopus egg extracts. these are the first biochemical data to show the dna polymerase activity of pol ε holoenzyme is essential for chromosomal dna replication in higher eukaryotes  unlike in yeasts.
1638,association of type and location of brca1 and brca2 mutations with risk of breast and ovarian cancer.,importance limited information about the relationship between specific mutations in brca1 or brca2 (brca1/2) and cancer risk exists. objective to identify mutation-specific cancer risks for carriers of brca1/2. design  setting  and participants observational study of women who were ascertained between 1937 and 2011 (median  1999) and found to carry disease-associated brca1 or brca2 mutations. the international sample comprised 19 581 carriers of brca1 mutations and 11 900 carriers of brca2 mutations from 55 centers in 33 countries on 6 continents. we estimated hazard ratios for breast and ovarian cancer based on mutation type  function  and nucleotide position. we also estimated rhr  the ratio of breast vs ovarian cancer hazard ratios. a value of rhr greater than 1 indicated elevated breast cancer risk; a value of rhr less than 1 indicated elevated ovarian cancer risk. exposures mutations of brca1 or brca2. main outcomes and measures breast and ovarian cancer risks. results among brca1 mutation carriers  9052 women (46%) were diagnosed with breast cancer  2317 (12%) with ovarian cancer  1041 (5%) with breast and ovarian cancer  and 7171 (37%) without cancer. among brca2 mutation carriers  6180 women (52%) were diagnosed with breast cancer  682 (6%) with ovarian cancer  272 (2%) with breast and ovarian cancer  and 4766 (40%) without cancer. in brca1  we identified 3 breast cancer cluster regions (bccrs) located at c.179 to c.505 (bccr1; rhr = 1.46; 95% ci  1.22-1.74; p = 2 × 10(-6))  c.4328 to c.4945 (bccr2; rhr = 1.34; 95% ci  1.01-1.78; p = .04)  and c. 5261 to c.5563 (bccr2'  rhr = 1.38; 95% ci  1.22-1.55; p = 6 × 10(-9)). we also identified an ovarian cancer cluster region (occr) from c.1380 to c.4062 (approximately exon 11) with rhr = 0.62 (95% ci  0.56-0.70; p = 9 × 10(-17)). in brca2  we observed multiple bccrs spanning c.1 to c.596 (bccr1; rhr = 1.71; 95% ci  1.06-2.78; p = .03)  c.772 to c.1806 (bccr1'; rhr = 1.63; 95% ci  1.10-2.40; p = .01)  and c.7394 to c.8904 (bccr2; rhr = 2.31; 95% ci  1.69-3.16; p = .00002). we also identified 3 occrs: the first (occr1) spanned c.3249 to c.5681 that was adjacent to c.5946delt (6174delt; rhr = 0.51; 95% ci  0.44-0.60; p = 6 × 10(-17)). the second occr spanned c.6645 to c.7471 (occr2; rhr = 0.57; 95% ci  0.41-0.80; p = .001). mutations conferring nonsense-mediated decay were associated with differential breast or ovarian cancer risks and an earlier age of breast cancer diagnosis for both brca1 and brca2 mutation carriers. conclusions and relevance breast and ovarian cancer risks varied by type and location of brca1/2 mutations. with appropriate validation  these data may have implications for risk assessment and cancer prevention decision making for carriers of brca1 and brca2 mutations.
1640,dscam and dscam: complex genes in simple animals  complex animals yet simple genes.,cadherins and the immunoglobulin (ig) proteins give rise to a multitude of surface receptors  which function as diverse cell adhesion molecules (cams) or signal-transducing receptors. these functions are often interdependent  and rely on a high degree of specificity in homophilic binding as well as heterophilic interactions. the drosophila receptor dscam is an exceptional example of homophilic binding specificity involved in a number of important biological processes  such as neural wiring and innate immunity. combinatorial use of alternatively spliced ig-domains enables the generation of an estimated 18 000 isoform-specific homophilic receptor pairs. although isoform diversity of dscam is unique to arthropods  recent genetic analysis of vertebrate dscam (down syndrome cell adhesion molecule) genes has revealed an intriguing conservation of molecular functions underlying neural wiring. this review covers the multiple functions of dscam across different species highlighting its remarkable versatility as well as its conserved basic functions in neural development. we discuss how an unprecedented expansion of complex alternative splicing has been uniquely employed by arthropods to generate diverse surface receptors  important for cell-cell communication  molecular self-recognition in neurons  and innate immune defenses. we end with a speculative hypothesis reconciling the striking differences in dscam and dscam gene structures with their conserved functions in molecular recognition underlying neural circuit formation.
1642,small-airway obstruction and emphysema in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.,background the major sites of obstruction in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd) are small airways (<2 mm in diameter). we wanted to determine whether there was a relationship between small-airway obstruction and emphysematous destruction in copd. methods we used multidetector computed tomography (ct) to compare the number of airways measuring 2.0 to 2.5 mm in 78 patients who had various stages of copd  as judged by scoring on the global initiative for chronic obstructive lung disease (gold) scale  in isolated lungs removed from patients with copd who underwent lung transplantation  and in donor (control) lungs. microct was used to measure the extent of emphysema (mean linear intercept)  the number of terminal bronchioles per milliliter of lung volume  and the minimum diameters and cross-sectional areas of terminal bronchioles. results on multidetector ct  in samples from patients with copd  as compared with control samples  the number of airways measuring 2.0 to 2.5 mm in diameter was reduced in patients with gold stage 1 disease (p=0.001)  gold stage 2 disease (p=0.02)  and gold stage 3 or 4 disease (p<0.001). microct of isolated samples of lungs removed from patients with gold stage 4 disease showed a reduction of 81 to 99.7% in the total cross-sectional area of terminal bronchioles and a reduction of 72 to 89% in the number of terminal bronchioles (p<0.001). a comparison of the number of terminal bronchioles and dimensions at different levels of emphysematous destruction (i.e.  an increasing value for the mean linear intercept) showed that the narrowing and loss of terminal bronchioles preceded emphysematous destruction in copd (p<0.001). conclusions these results show that narrowing and disappearance of small conducting airways before the onset of emphysematous destruction can explain the increased peripheral airway resistance reported in copd. (funded by the national heart  lung  and blood institute and others.).
1644,logic of the yeast metabolic cycle: temporal compartmentalization of cellular processes.,budding yeast grown under continuous  nutrient-limited conditions exhibit robust  highly periodic cycles in the form of respiratory bursts. microarray studies reveal that over half of the yeast genome is expressed periodically during these metabolic cycles. genes encoding proteins having a common function exhibit similar temporal expression patterns  and genes specifying functions associated with energy and metabolism tend to be expressed with exceptionally robust periodicity. essential cellular and metabolic events occur in synchrony with the metabolic cycle  demonstrating that key processes in a simple eukaryotic cell are compartmentalized in time.
1646,dual mutations in the aml1 and flt3 genes are associated with leukemogenesis in acute myeloblastic leukemia of the m0 subtype,point mutations of the transcription factor aml1 are associated with leukemogenesis in acute myeloblastic leukemia (aml). internal tandem duplications (itds) in the juxtamembrane domain and mutations in the second tyrosine kinase domain of the fms-like tyrosine kinase 3 (flt3) gene represent the most frequent genetic alterations in aml. however  such mutations per se appear to be insufficient for leukemic transformation. to evaluate whether both aml1 and flt3 mutations contribute to leukemogenesis  we analyzed mutations of these genes in aml m0 subtype in whom aml1 mutations were predominantly observed. of 51 patients  eight showed a mutation in the runt domain of the aml1 gene: one heterozygous missense mutation with normal function  five heterozygous frameshift mutations and two biallelic nonsense or frameshift mutations  resulting in haploinsufficiency or complete loss of the aml1 activities. on the other hand  a total of 10 of 49 patients examined had the flt3 mutation. we detected the flt3 mutation in five of eight (63%) patients with aml1 mutation  whereas five of 41 (12%) without aml1 mutation showed the flt3 mutation (p=0.0055). these observations suggest that reduced aml1 activities predispose cells to the acquisition of the activating flt3 mutation as a secondary event leading to full transformation in aml m0.
1648,stem cell-related "self-renewal" signature and high epidermal growth factor receptor expression associated with resistance to concomitant chemoradiotherapy in glioblastoma.,purpose glioblastomas are notorious for resistance to therapy  which has been attributed to dna-repair proficiency  a multitude of deregulated molecular pathways  and  more recently  to the particular biologic behavior of tumor stem-like cells. here  we aimed to identify molecular profiles specific for treatment resistance to the current standard of care of concomitant chemoradiotherapy with the alkylating agent temozolomide. patients and methods gene expression profiles of 80 glioblastomas were interrogated for associations with resistance to therapy. patients were treated within clinical trials testing the addition of concomitant and adjuvant temozolomide to radiotherapy. results an expression signature dominated by hox genes  which comprises prominin-1 (cd133)  emerged as a predictor for poor survival in patients treated with concomitant chemoradiotherapy (n = 42; hazard ratio = 2.69; 95% ci  1.38 to 5.26; p = .004). this association could be validated in an independent data set. provocatively  the hox cluster was reminiscent of a "self-renewal" signature (p = .008; gene set enrichment analysis) recently characterized in a mouse leukemia model. the hox signature and egfr expression were independent prognostic factors in multivariate analysis  adjusted for the o-6-methylguanine-dna methyltransferase (mgmt) methylation status  a known predictive factor for benefit from temozolomide  and age. better outcome was associated with gene clusters characterizing features of tumor-host interaction including tumor vascularization and cell adhesion  and innate immune response. conclusion this study provides first clinical evidence for the implication of a "glioma stem cell" or "self-renewal" phenotype in treatment resistance of glioblastoma. biologic mechanisms identified here to be relevant for resistance will guide future targeted therapies and respective marker development for individualized treatment and patient selection.
1650,extrathymic generation of regulatory t cells in placental mammals mitigates maternal-fetal conflict,regulatory t (treg) cells  whose differentiation and function are controlled by x chromosome-encoded transcription factor foxp3  are generated in the thymus (ttreg) and extrathymically (peripheral  ptreg)  and their deficiency results in fatal autoimmunity. here  we demonstrate that a foxp3 enhancer  conserved noncoding sequence 1 (cns1)  essential for ptreg but dispensable for ttreg cell generation  is present only in placental mammals. cns1 is largely composed of mammalian-wide interspersed repeats (mir) that have undergone retrotransposition during early mammalian radiation. during pregnancy  ptreg cells specific to a model paternal alloantigen were generated in a cns1-dependent manner and accumulated in the placenta. furthermore  when mated with allogeneic  but not syngeneic  males  cns1-deficient females showed increased fetal resorption accompanied by increased immune cell infiltration and defective remodeling of spiral arteries. our results suggest that  during evolution  a cns1-dependent mechanism of extrathymic differentiation of treg cells emerged in placental animals to enforce maternal-fetal tolerance.
1652,the translation initiation factor 3f (eif3f) exhibits a deubiquitinase activity regulating notch activation,activation of the mammalian notch receptor after ligand binding relies on a succession of events including metalloprotease-cleavage  endocytosis  monoubiquitination  and eventually processing by the gamma-secretase  giving rise to a soluble  transcriptionally active molecule. the notch1 receptor was proposed to be monoubiquitinated before its gamma-secretase cleavage; the targeted lysine has been localized to its submembrane domain. investigating how this step might be regulated by a deubiquitinase (dub) activity will provide new insight for understanding notch receptor activation and downstream signaling. an immunofluorescence-based screening of an shrna library allowed us to identify eif3f  previously known as one of the subunits of the translation initiation factor eif3  as a dub targeting the activated notch receptor. we show that eif3f has an intrinsic dub activity. knocking down eif3f leads to an accumulation of monoubiquitinated forms of activated notch  an effect counteracted by murine wt eif3f but not by a catalytically inactive mutant. we also show that eif3f is recruited to activated notch on endocytic vesicles by the putative e3 ubiquitin ligase deltex1  which serves as a bridging factor. finally  catalytically inactive forms of eif3f as well as shrnas targeting eif3f repress notch activation in a coculture assay  showing that eif3f is a new positive regulator of the notch pathway. our results support two new and provocative conclusions: (1) the activated form of notch needs to be deubiquitinated before being processed by the gamma-secretase activity and entering the nucleus  where it fulfills its transcriptional function. (2) the enzyme accounting for this deubiquitinase activity is eif3f  known so far as a translation initiation factor. these data improve our knowledge of notch signaling but also open new avenues of research on the zomes family and the translation initiation factors.
1654,maternal protein restriction affects postnatal growth and the expression of key proteins involved in lifespan regulation in mice,we previously reported that maternal protein restriction in rodents influenced the rate of growth in early life and ultimately affected longevity. low birth weight caused by maternal protein restriction followed by catch-up growth (recuperated animals) was associated with shortened lifespan whereas protein restriction and slow growth during lactation (postnatal low protein: plp animals) increased lifespan. we aim to explore the mechanistic basis by which these differences arise. here we investigated effects of maternal diet on organ growth  metabolic parameters and the expression of insulin/igf1 signalling proteins and sirt1 in muscle of male mice at weaning. plp mice which experienced protein restriction during lactation had lower fasting glucose (p = 0.038) and insulin levels (p = 0.046) suggesting improved insulin sensitivity. plp mice had higher relative weights (adjusted by body weight) of brain (p = 0.0002) and thymus (p = 0.031) compared to controls suggesting that enhanced functional capacity of these two tissues is beneficial to longevity. they also had increased expression of insulin receptor substrate 1 (p = 0.021) and protein kinase c zeta (p = 0.046). recuperated animals expressed decreased levels of many insulin signalling proteins including pi3 kinase subunits p85alpha (p = 0.018)  p110beta (p = 0.048) and protein kinase c zeta (p = 0.006) which may predispose these animals to insulin resistance. sirt1 protein expression was reduced in recuperated offspring. these observations suggest that maternal protein restriction can affect major metabolic pathways implicated in regulation of lifespan at a young age which may explain the impact of maternal diet on longevity.
1656,alphavirus-derived small rnas modulate pathogenesis in disease vector mosquitoes.,mosquito-borne viruses cause significant levels of morbidity and mortality in humans and domesticated animals. maintenance of mosquito-borne viruses in nature requires a biological transmission cycle that involves alternating virus replication in a susceptible vertebrate and mosquito host. although the vertebrate infection is acute and often associated with disease  continual transmission of these viruses in nature depends on the establishment of a persistent  nonpathogenic infection in the mosquito vector. an antiviral rnai response has been shown to limit the replication of rna viruses in flies. however  the importance of the rnai pathway as an antiviral defense in mammals is unclear. differences in the immune responses of mammals and mosquitoes may explain why these viruses are not generally associated with pathology in the invertebrate host. we identified virus-derived small interfering rnas (virnas)  21 nt in length  in aedes aegypti infected with the mosquito-borne virus  sindbis (sinv). virnas had an asymmetric distribution that spanned the length of the sinv genome. to determine the role of virnas in controlling pathogenic potential  mosquitoes were infected with recombinant alphaviruses expressing suppressors of rna silencing. decreased survival was observed in mosquitoes in which the accumulation of virnas was suppressed. these results suggest that an exogenous sirna pathway is essential to the survival of mosquitoes infected with alphaviruses and  thus  the maintenance of these viruses in nature.
1658,cancer survivors in the united states: prevalence across the survivorship trajectory and implications for care.,background cancer survivors represent a growing population  heterogeneous in their need for medical care  psychosocial support  and practical assistance. to inform survivorship research and practice  this manuscript will describe the prevalent population of cancer survivors in terms of overall numbers and prevalence by cancer site and time since diagnosis. methods incidence and survival data from 1975-2007 were obtained from the surveillance  epidemiology  and end results program and population projections from the united states census bureau. cancer prevalence for 2012 and beyond was estimated using the prevalence incidence approach model  assuming constant future incidence and survival trends but dynamic projections of the u.s. population. results as of january 1  2012  approximately 13.7 million cancer survivors were living in the united states with prevalence projected to approach 18 million by 2022. sixty-four percent of this population have survived 5 years or more; 40% have survived 10 years or more; and 15% have survived 20 years or more after diagnosis. over the next decade  the number of people who have lived 5 years or more after their cancer diagnosis is projected to increase approximately 37% to 11.9 million. conclusions a coordinated agenda for research and practice is needed to address cancer survivors' long-term medical  psychosocial  and practical needs across the survivorship trajectory. impact prevalence estimates for cancer survivors across the survivorship trajectory will inform the national research agenda as well as future projections about the health service needs of this population.
1660,the drosophila hindgut lacks constitutively active adult stem cells but proliferates in response to tissue damage.,the adult drosophila hindgut was recently reported to contain active  tissue-replenishing stem cells  like those of the midgut  but located within an anterior ring so as to comprise a single giant crypt. in contrast to this view  we observed no active stem cells and little cell turnover in adult hindgut tissue based on clonal marking and brdu incorporation studies. again contradicting the previous proposal  we showed that the adult hindgut is not generated by anterior stem cells during larval/pupal development. however  severe tissue damage within the hindgut elicits cell proliferation within a ring of putative quiescent stem cells at the anterior of the pylorus. thus  the hindgut does not provide a model of tissue maintenance by constitutively active stem cells  but has great potential to illuminate mechanisms of stress-induced tissue repair.
1662,cd44v6 is a marker of constitutive and reprogrammed cancer stem cells driving colon cancer metastasis.,cancer stem cells drive tumor formation and metastasis  but how they acquire metastatic traits is not well understood. here  we show that all colorectal cancer stem cells (cr-cscs) express cd44v6  which is required for their migration and generation of metastatic tumors. cd44v6 expression is low in primary tumors but demarcated clonogenic cr-csc populations. cytokines hepatocyte growth factor (hgf)  osteopontin (opn)  and stromal-derived factor 1α (sdf-1)  secreted from tumor associated cells  increase cd44v6 expression in cr-cscs by activating the wnt/β-catenin pathway  which promotes migration and metastasis. cd44v6(-) progenitor cells do not give rise to metastatic lesions but  when treated with cytokines  acquire cd44v6 expression and metastatic capacity. importantly  phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (pi3k) inhibition selectively killed cd44v6 cr-cscs and reduced metastatic growth. in patient cohorts  low levels of cd44v6 predict increased probability of survival. thus  the metastatic process in colorectal cancer is initiated by cscs through the expression of cd44v6  which is both a functional biomarker and therapeutic target.
1664,advances in high-resolution imaging--techniques for three-dimensional imaging of cellular structures.,a fundamental goal in biology is to determine how cellular organization is coupled to function. to achieve this goal  a better understanding of organelle composition and structure is needed. although visualization of cellular organelles using fluorescence or electron microscopy (em) has become a common tool for the cell biologist  recent advances are providing a clearer picture of the cell than ever before. in particular  advanced light-microscopy techniques are achieving resolutions below the diffraction limit and em tomography provides high-resolution three-dimensional (3d) images of cellular structures. the ability to perform both fluorescence and electron microscopy on the same sample (correlative light and electron microscopy  clem) makes it possible to identify where a fluorescently labeled protein is located with respect to organelle structures visualized by em. here  we review the current state of the art in 3d biological imaging techniques with a focus on recent advances in electron microscopy and fluorescence super-resolution techniques.
1666,the m/gp5 glycoprotein complex of porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus binds the sialoadhesin receptor in a sialic acid-dependent manner,the porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (prrsv) is a major threat to swine health worldwide and is considered the most significant viral disease in the swine industry today. in past years  studies on the entry of the virus into its host cell have led to the identification of a number of essential virus receptors and entry mediators. however  viral counterparts for these molecules have remained elusive and this has made rational development of new generation vaccines impossible. the main objective of this study was to identify the viral counterparts for sialoadhesin  a crucial prrsv receptor on macrophages. for this purpose  a soluble form of sialoadhesin was constructed and validated. the soluble sialoadhesin could bind prrsv in a sialic acid-dependent manner and could neutralize prrsv infection of macrophages  thereby confirming the role of sialoadhesin as an essential prrsv receptor on macrophages. although sialic acids are present on the gp(3)  gp(4) and gp(5) envelope glycoproteins  only the m/gp(5) glycoprotein complex of prrsv was identified as a ligand for sialoadhesin. the interaction was found to be dependent on the sialic acid binding capacity of sialoadhesin and on the presence of sialic acids on gp(5). these findings not only contribute to a better understanding of prrsv biology  but the knowledge and tools generated in this study also hold the key to the development of a new generation of prrsv vaccines.
1668,gep100-arf6-amap1-cortactin pathway frequently used in cancer invasion is activated by vegfr2 to promote angiogenesis,angiogenesis and cancer invasiveness greatly contribute to cancer malignancy. arf6 and its effector  amap1  are frequently overexpressed in breast cancer  and constitute a central pathway to induce the invasion and metastasis. in this pathway  arf6 is activated by egfr via gep100. arf6 is highly expressed also in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (huvecs) and is implicated in angiogenesis. here  we found that huvecs also highly express amap1  and that vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2 (vegfr2) recruits gep100 to activate arf6. amap1 functions by binding to cortactin in cancer invasion and metastasis. we demonstrate that the same gep100-arf6-amap1-cortactin pathway is essential for angiogenesis activities  including cell migration and tubular formation  as well as for the enhancement of cell permeability and ve-cadherin endocytosis of vegf-stimulated huvecs. components of this pathway are highly expressed in pathologic angiogenesis  and blocking of this pathway effectively inhibits vegf- or tumor-induced angiogenesis and choroidal neovascularization. the gep100-arf6-amap1-cortactin pathway  activated by receptor tyrosine kinases  appears to be common in angiogenesis and cancer invasion and metastasis  and provides their new therapeutic targets.
1670,angiopoietin-2 at high concentration can enhance endothelial cell survival through the phosphatidylinositol 3′-kinase/akt signal transduction pathway,the angiopoietin-tie2 system in endothelial cells is an important regulator of vasculogenesis and vascular integrity. high levels of angiopoietin-2 (ang2) mrna are observed in vascular activation during tumorigenesis. although ang2 is known to be a naturally occurring antagonist of angiopoietin-1 (ang1) in vivo  the exact function of ang2 itself is not known. here  we found that a high concentration of ang2 (800 ng/ml) acts as an apoptosis survival factor for endothelial cells during serum deprivation apoptosis. the survival effect of high concentration ang2 was blocked by pre-treatment with soluble tie2 receptor and the pi 3′-kinase-specific inhibitors  wortmannin and ly294002. accordingly  800 ng/ml of ang2 induced phosphorylation of tie2  the p85 subunit of phosphatidylinositol 3′-kinase (pi 3′-kinase)  and serine-threonine kinase akt at ser473 in the human umbilical vein endothelial cells; lower concentrations of ang2 (50–400 ng/ml) did not produce notable effects. these findings indicate that at high concentrations  ang2  like ang1  can be an apoptosis survival factor for endothelial cells through the activation of the tie2 receptor  pi 3′-kinase and akt  and thus may be a positive regulator of tumor angiogenesis.
1672,serum plant and other noncholesterol sterols  cholesterol metabolism and 22-year mortality among middle-aged men.,objective to evaluate long-term prognostic effect of serum noncholesterol sterols  including plant sterols  in middle-aged men with high cardiovascular disease (cvd) risk  without statins at baseline. methods this was a prospective study of 232 men (mean age 60 years) at high risk of cvd in 1985-1986. most were hypercholesterolemic  29 (12%) had a history of cvd or cancer  6 (3%) had diabetes  and 46 (20%) had metabolic syndrome (ms). measured noncholesterol sterols (expressed as absolute concentrations or ratios to serum cholesterol to standardize for cholesterol concentrations) included lathosterol and desmosterol (reflect cholesterol synthesis)  and plant sterols (campesterol and sitosterol) and cholestanol (reflect cholesterol absorption). main outcome measure was total mortality. results at baseline  markers of cholesterol synthesis and absorption showed expected inverse associations. during the 22-year follow-up 101 men (43%) died. at baseline  nonsurvivors smoked more  exercised less and had more components of ms (although not filling strict criteria)  whereas traditional risk factors of cvd were not significantly different. of the noncholesterol sterols (either absolute or ratio)  only sitosterol was significantly higher in survivors than in nonsurvivors (p=0.02). in multivariable analyses  highest sitosterol-to-cholesterol tertile was associated with significantly lower mortality risk (hr 0.51  95% ci 0.30-0.87) as compared to lowest tertile. other associations were nonsignificant  although a "global" index of cholesterol metabolism (desmosterol-to-sitosterol ratio) suggested higher cholesterol synthesis and lower absorption to be associated with higher total and cvd mortality. conclusion higher serum plant sterol levels in middle-aged men predicted lower long-term mortality risk  possibly reflecting an association between higher synthesis/lower absorption of cholesterol and mortality.
1674,a whole brain staining  embedding  and clearing pipeline for adult zebrafish to visualize cell proliferation and morphology in 3-dimensions,the field of macro-imaging has grown considerably with the appearance of innovative clearing methods and confocal microscopes with lasers capable of penetrating increasing tissue depths. the ability to visualize and model the growth of whole organs as they develop from birth  or with manipulation  disease or injury  provides new ways of thinking about development  tissue-wide signaling  and cell-to-cell interactions. the zebrafish (danio rerio) has ascended from a predominantly developmental model to a leading adult model of tissue regeneration. the unmatched neurogenic and regenerative capacity of the mature central nervous system  in particular  has received much attention  however tools to interrogate the adult brain are sparse. at present there exists no straightforward methods of visualizing changes in the whole adult brain in 3-dimensions (3-d) to examine systemic patterns of cell proliferation or cell populations of interest under physiological  injury  or diseased conditions. the method presented here is the first of its kind to offer an efficient step-by-step pipeline from intraperitoneal injections of the proliferative marker  5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (edu)  to whole brain labeling  to a final embedded and cleared brain sample suitable for 3-d imaging using optical projection tomography (opt). moreover  this method allows potential for imaging gfp-reporter lines and cell-specific antibodies in the presence or absence of edu. the small size of the adult zebrafish brain  the highly consistent degree of edu labeling  and the use of basic clearing agents  benzyl benzoate  and benzyl alcohol  makes this method highly tractable for most laboratories interested in understanding the vertebrate central nervous system in health and disease. post-processing of opt-imaged adult zebrafish brains injected with edu illustrate that proliferative patterns in edu can readily be observed and analyzed using imaris and/or fiji/imagej software. this protocol will be a valuable tool to unlock new ways of understanding systemic patterns in cell proliferation in the healthy and injured brain  brain-wide cellular interactions  stem cell niche development  and changes in brain morphology.
1676,increasing microtubule acetylation rescues axonal transport and locomotor deficits caused by lrrk2 roc-cor domain mutations,leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (lrrk2) mutations are the most common genetic cause of parkinson's disease. lrrk2 is a multifunctional protein affecting many cellular processes and has been described to bind microtubules. defective microtubule-based axonal transport is hypothesized to contribute to parkinson's disease  but whether lrrk2 mutations affect this process to mediate pathogenesis is not known. here we find that lrrk2 containing pathogenic roc-cor domain mutations (r1441c  y1699c) preferentially associates with deacetylated microtubules  and inhibits axonal transport in primary neurons and in drosophila  causing locomotor deficits in vivo. in vitro  increasing microtubule acetylation using deacetylase inhibitors or the tubulin acetylase αtat1 prevents association of mutant lrrk2 with microtubules  and the deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin a (tsa) restores axonal transport. in vivo knockdown of the deacetylases hdac6 and sirt2  or administration of tsa rescues both axonal transport and locomotor behavior. thus  this study reveals a pathogenic mechanism and a potential intervention for parkinson's disease.
1678,induction of ectopic eyes by targeted expression of the eyeless gene in drosophila.,the drosophila gene eyeless (ey) encodes a transcription factor with both a paired domain and a homeodomain. it is homologous to the mouse small eye (pax-6) gene and to the aniridia gene in humans. these genes share extensive sequence identity  the position of three intron splice sites is conserved  and these genes are expressed similarly in the developing nervous system and in the eye during morphogenesis. loss-of-function mutations in both the insect and in the mammalian genes have been shown to lead to a reduction or absence of eye structures  which suggests that ey functions in eye morphogenesis. by targeted expression of the ey complementary dna in various imaginal disc primordia of drosophila  ectopic eye structures were induced on the wings  the legs  and on the antennae. the ectopic eyes appeared morphologically normal and consisted of groups of fully differentiated ommatidia with a complete set of photoreceptor cells. these results support the proposition that ey is the master control gene for eye morphogenesis. because homologous genes are present in vertebrates  ascidians  insects  cephalopods  and nemerteans  ey may function as a master control gene throughout the metazoa.
1680,genome-wide association analyses in east asians identify new susceptibility loci for colorectal cancer,to identify new genetic factors for colorectal cancer (crc)  we conducted a                 genome-wide association study in east asians. by analyzing genome-wide data in 2 098                 cases and 5 749 controls  we selected 64 promising snps for replication in an                 independent set of samples  including up to 5 358 cases and 5 922 controls. we                 identified four snps with association p values of 8.58 ×                     10(-7) to 3.77 × 10(-10)                 in the combined analysis of all east asian samples. three of the four were                 replicated in a study conducted in 26 060 individuals of european descent  with                 combined p values of 1.22 × 10(-10) for                 rs647161 (5q31.1)  6.64 × 10(-9) for rs2423279                 (20p12.3) and 3.06 × 10(-8) for rs10774214                 (12p13.32 near the ccnd2 gene)  derived from meta-analysis of data from both                 east asian and european-ancestry populations. this study identified three new crc                 susceptibility loci and provides additional insight into the genetics and biology of                 crc.
1682,costs of the copd. differences between intensive care unit and respiratory intermediate care unit.,introduction to assess whether respiratory intermediate care units (ricus) are cost effective alternatives to intensive care units (icus) for patients with exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd). patients and methods multi-centre  prospective  bottom-up cost study performed in 15 icus and 6 ricus. copd patients staying longer than 48 h were recruited; those coming from other icus/ricus  with immune-deficiency or stroke  were excluded. after the icu sample was standardised to the ricu distribution of the reason-for-admission and infusion of a vasoactive drug on admission  60 icu patients and 65 ricu patients remained  of the original 164 recruited. for each patient  besides clinical data on admission and discharge  daily information about the resources consumed were recorded and analysed in terms of their costs. results total cost per patient was lower in ricus than in icus (754 vs. 1507 euro; p < 0.0001). in all items  except drugs and nutrition  we found a significant lower cost in ricus. dead patients were noticeably different in terms of disease severity between icus and ricus  while surviving ones were not. conclusions our study suggests that some copd patients  less severe and with pure respiratory failure  could be successfully and less costly treated in ricus.
1684,induction of pluripotent stem cells from mouse embryonic fibroblasts by oct4 and klf4 with small-molecule compounds.,somatic cells can be induced into pluripotent stem cells (ipscs) with a combination of four transcription factors  oct4/sox2/klf4/c-myc or oct4/sox2/nanog/lin28. this provides an enabling platform to obtain patient-specific cells for various therapeutic and research applications. however  several problems remain for this approach to be therapeutically relevant due to drawbacks associated with efficiency and viral genome integration. recently  it was shown that neural progenitor cells (npcs) transduced with oct4/klf4 can be reprogrammed into ipscs. however  npcs express sox2 endogenously  possibly facilitating reprogramming in the absence of exogenous sox2. in this study  we identified a small-molecule combination  bix-01294 and bayk8644  that enables reprogramming of oct4/klf4-transduced mouse embryonic fibroblasts  which do not endogenously express the factors essential for reprogramming. this study demonstrates that small molecules identified through a phenotypic screen can compensate for viral transduction of critical factors  such as sox2  and improve reprogramming efficiency.
1686,xpg stabilizes tfiih  allowing transactivation of nuclear receptors: implications for cockayne syndrome in xp-g/cs patients.,mutations in the human xpg gene give rise to an inherited photosensitive disorder  xeroderma pigmentosum (xp) associated with cockayne syndrome (xp-g/cs). the clinical features of cs in xp-g/cs patients are difficult to explain on the basis of a defect in nucleotide excision repair (ner). we found that xpg forms a stable complex with tfiih  which is active in transcription and ner. mutations in xpg found in xp-g/cs patient cells that prevent the association with tfiih also resulted in the dissociation of cak and xpd from the core tfiih. as a consequence  the phosphorylation and transactivation of nuclear receptors were disturbed in xp-g/cs as well as xpg(-/-) mef cells and could be restored by expression of wild-type xpg. these results provide an insight into the role of xpg in the stabilization of tfiih and the regulation of gene expression and provide an explanation of some of the clinical features of xp-g/cs.
1688,in polyploid species,we developed the yeast gene order browser (ygob; http://wolfe.gen.tcd.ie/ygob) to facilitate visual comparisons and computational analysis of synteny relationships in yeasts. the data presented in ygob  currently covering seven species  are based on sets of homologous genes that have been intensively manually curated based on both sequence similarity and genomic context (synteny). we reconciled different laboratories' lists of paralogous saccharomyces cerevisiae gene pairs formed by genome duplication (ohnologs)  and present near-exhaustive lists of the ohnolog pairs retained in s. cerevisiae (551  including 22 previously unidentified)  saccharomyces castellii (599)  and candida glabrata (404).
1690,promoter decoding of transcription factor dynamics involves a trade-off between noise and control of gene expression,numerous transcription factors (tfs) encode information about upstream signals in the dynamics of their activation  but how downstream genes decode these dynamics remains poorly understood. using microfluidics to control the nucleocytoplasmic translocation dynamics of the budding yeast tf msn2  we elucidate the principles that govern how different promoters convert dynamical msn2 input into gene expression output in single cells. combining modeling and experiments  we classify promoters according to their signal-processing behavior and reveal that multiple  distinct gene expression programs can be encoded in the dynamics of msn2. we show that both oscillatory tf dynamics and slow promoter kinetics lead to higher noise in gene expression. furthermore  we show that the promoter activation timescale is related to nucleosome remodeling. our findings imply a fundamental trade-off: although the cell can exploit different promoter classes to differentially control gene expression using tf dynamics  gene expression noise fundamentally limits how much information can be encoded in the dynamics of a single tf and reliably decoded by promoters.
1692,roles of histone acetylation and chromatin remodeling factor in a meiotic recombination hotspot.,histone acetyltransferases (hats) and atp-dependent chromatin remodeling factors (adcrs) are involved in selective gene regulation via modulation of local chromatin configuration. activation of the recombination hotspot ade6-m26 of schizosaccharomyces pombe is mediated by a camp responsive element (cre)-like sequence  m26  and a heterodimeric atf/creb transcription factor  atf1.pcr1. chromatin remodeling occurs meiotically around m26. we examined the roles of hats and adcrs in chromatin remodeling around m26. histones h3 and h4 around m26 were hyperacetylated in an m26- and atf1-dependent manner early in meiosis. spgcn5  the s. pombe homolog of gcn5p  was required for the majority of histone h3 acetylation around m26 in vivo. deletion of gcn5+ caused a significant delay in chromatin remodeling but only partial reduction of m26 meiotic recombination frequency. the snf22+ (a swi2/snf2-adcr homologue) deletion and snf22+ gcn5+ double deletion abolished chromatin remodeling and significant reduction of meiotic recombination around m26. these results suggest that hats and adcrs cooperatively alter local chromatin structure  as in selective transcription activation  to activate meiotic recombination at m26 in a site-specific manner.
1694,radioiodine treatment of multinodular non-toxic goitre.,objective to investigate the long term effect of radioactive iodine on thyroid function and size in patients with non-toxic multinodular goitre. design consecutive patients with multinodular non-toxic goitre selected for radioactive iodine treatment and followed for a minimum of 12 months (median 48 months) after an intended dose of 3.7 mbq/g thyroid tissue corrected to a 100% uptake of iodine-131 in 24 hours. patients 69 patients with a growing multinodular non-toxic goitre causing local compression symptoms or cosmetic inconveniences. the treatment was chosen because of a high operative risk  previous thyroidectomy  or refusal to be operated on. main outcome measurements standard thyroid function variables and ultrasonically determined thyroid volume before treatment as well as 1  2  3  6  and 12 months after treatment and then once a year. results 56 patients were treated with a single dose of 131i  12 with two doses  and one with four doses. in 45 patients treated with one dose and remaining euthyroid the median thyroid volume was reduced from 73 (interquartile range 50-106) ml to 29 (23-48) ml at 24 months in the 39 patients in whom this was measured during follow up. the median reduction was 40 (22-48) ml (60% reduction  p < 0.0001)  half of which occurred within three months. patients treated with two doses as well as those developing hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism had a significant reduction in thyroid volume. eleven patients developed hypothyroidism (cumulative five year risk 22%  95% confidence interval 4.8% to 38.4%). side effects were few: three cases of hyperthyroidism and two cases of radiation thyroiditis. only one patient was dissatisfied with the result; she was referred for operation six months after treatment. conclusions a substantial reduction in thyroid volume accompanied by a low incidence of hypothyroidism and few side effects makes the use of radioactive iodine an attractive alternative to surgery in selected cases of non-toxic multinodular goitre.
1696,activated ampk boosts the nrf2/ho-1 signaling axis—a role for the unfolded protein response,in light of the emerging interplay between redox and metabolic signaling pathways we investigated the potential cross talk between nuclear factor e2-related factor 2 (nrf2) and amp-activated kinase (ampk)  central regulators of the cellular redox and energy balance  respectively. making use of xanthohumol (xn) as an activator of both the ampk and the nrf2 signaling pathway we show that ampk exerts a positive influence on nrf2/heme oxygenase (ho)-1 signaling in mouse embryonic fibroblasts. genetic ablation and pharmacological inhibition of ampk blunts nrf2-dependent ho-1 expression by xn already at the mrna level. xn leads to ampk activation via interference with mitochondrial function and activation of liver kinase b1 as upstream ampk kinase. the subsequent ampk-mediated enhancement of the nrf2/ho-1 response does not depend on inhibition of the mammalian target of rapamycin  inhibition of glycogen synthase kinase 3β  or altered abundance of nrf2 (total and nuclear). however  reduced endoplasmic reticulum stress was identified and elaborated as a step in the ampk-augmented nrf2/ho-1 response. overall  we shed more light on the hitherto incompletely understood cross talk between the lkb1/ampk and the nrf2/ho-1 axis revealing for the first time involvement of the unfolded protein response as an additional player and suggesting tight cooperation between signaling pathways controlling cellular redox  energy  or protein homeostasis.
1698,prolonged conservative care versus early surgery in patients with sciatica caused by lumbar disc herniation: two year results of a randomised controlled trial.,objectives to evaluate the effects of early lumbar disc surgery compared with prolonged conservative care for patients with sciatica over two years of follow-up. design randomised controlled trial. setting nine dutch hospitals. participants 283 patients with 6-12 weeks of sciatica. interventions early surgery or an intended six months of continued conservative treatment  with delayed surgery if needed. main outcome measures scores from roland disability questionnaire for sciatica  visual analogue scale for leg pain  and likert self rating scale of global perceived recovery. results of the 141 patients assigned to undergo early surgery  125 (89%) underwent microdiscectomy. of the 142 patients assigned to conservative treatment  62 (44%) eventually required surgery  seven doing so in the second year of follow-up. there was no significant overall difference between treatment arms in disability scores during the first two years (p=0.25). improvement in leg pain was faster for patients randomised to early surgery  with a significant difference between "areas under the curves" over two years (p=0.05). this short term benefit of early surgery was no longer significant by six months and continued to narrow between six months and 24 months. patient satisfaction decreased slightly between one and two years for both groups. at two years 20% of all patients reported an unsatisfactory outcome. conclusions early surgery achieved more rapid relief of sciatica than conservative care  but outcomes were similar by one year and these did not change during the second year. trial registry isrct no 26872154.
1700,epigenetic therapy activates type i interferon signaling in murine ovarian cancer to reduce immunosuppression and tumor burden.,ovarian cancer is the most lethal of all gynecological cancers  and there is an urgent unmet need to develop new therapies. epithelial ovarian cancer (eoc) is characterized by an immune suppressive microenvironment  and response of ovarian cancers to immune therapies has thus far been disappointing. we now find  in a mouse model of eoc  that clinically relevant doses of dna methyltransferase and histone deacetylase inhibitors (dnmti and hdaci  respectively) reduce the immune suppressive microenvironment through type i ifn signaling and improve response to immune checkpoint therapy. these data indicate that the type i ifn response is required for effective in vivo antitumorigenic actions of the dnmti 5-azacytidine (aza). through type i ifn signaling  aza increases the numbers of cd45+ immune cells and the percentage of active cd8+ t and natural killer (nk) cells in the tumor microenvironment  while reducing tumor burden and extending survival. aza also increases viral defense gene expression in both tumor and immune cells  and reduces the percentage of macrophages and myeloid-derived suppressor cells in the tumor microenvironment. the addition of an hdaci to aza enhances the modulation of the immune microenvironment  specifically increasing t and nk cell activation and reducing macrophages over aza treatment alone  while further increasing the survival of the mice. finally  a triple combination of dnmti/hdaci plus the immune checkpoint inhibitor α-pd-1 provides the best antitumor effect and longest overall survival  and may be an attractive candidate for future clinical trials in ovarian cancer.
1702,safety and reliability of radio frequency identification devices in magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography,background radio frequency identification (rfid) devices are becoming more and more essential for patient safety in hospitals. the purpose of this study was to determine patient safety  data reliability and signal loss wearing on skin rfid devices during magnetic resonance imaging (mri) and computed tomography (ct) scanning. methods sixty rfid tags of the type i-code sli  13.56 mhz  iso 18000-3.1 were tested: thirty type 1  an rfid tag with a 76 x 45 mm aluminum-etched antenna and 30 type 2  a tag with a 31 x 14 mm copper-etched antenna. the signal loss  material movement and heat tests were performed in a 1.5 t and a 3 t mr system. for data integrity  the tags were tested additionally during ct scanning. standardized function tests were performed with all transponders before and after all imaging studies. results there was no memory loss or data alteration in the rfid tags after mri and ct scanning. concerning heating (a maximum of 3.6 degrees c) and device movement (below 1 n/kg) no relevant influence was found. concerning signal loss (artifacts 2 - 4 mm)  interpretability of mr images was impaired when superficial structures such as skin  subcutaneous tissues or tendons were assessed. conclusions patients wearing rfid wristbands are safe in 1.5 t and 3 t mr scanners using normal operation mode for rf-field. the findings are specific to the rfid tags that underwent testing.
1704,alterations on peripheral b cell subsets following an acute uncomplicated clinical malaria infection in children,background the effects of plasmodium falciparum on b-cell homeostasis have not been well characterized. this study investigated whether an episode of acute malaria in young children results in changes in the peripheral b cell phenotype. methods using flow-cytofluorimetric analysis  the b cell phenotypes found in the peripheral blood of children aged 2-5 years were characterized during an episode of acute uncomplicated clinical malaria and four weeks post-recovery and in healthy age-matched controls. results there was a significant decrease in cd19+ b lymphocytes during acute malaria. characterization of the cd19+ b cell subsets in the peripheral blood based on expression of igd and cd38 revealed a significant decrease in the numbers of naive 1 cd38-igd+ b cells while there was an increase in cd38+igd- memory 3 b cells during acute malaria. further analysis of the peripheral b cell phenotype also identified an expansion of transitional cd10+cd19+ b cells in children following an episode of acute malaria with up to 25% of total cd19+ b cell pool residing in this subset. conclusion children experiencing an episode of acute uncomplicated clinical malaria experienced profound disturbances in b cell homeostasis.
1706,updated energy budgets for neural computation in the neocortex and cerebellum.,the brain's energy supply determines its information processing power  and generates functional imaging signals. the energy use on the different subcellular processes underlying neural information processing has been estimated previously for the grey matter of the cerebral and cerebellar cortex. however  these estimates need reevaluating following recent work demonstrating that action potentials in mammalian neurons are much more energy efficient than was previously thought. using this new knowledge  this paper provides revised estimates for the energy expenditure on neural computation in a simple model for the cerebral cortex and a detailed model of the cerebellar cortex. in cerebral cortex  most signaling energy (50%) is used on postsynaptic glutamate receptors  21% is used on action potentials  20% on resting potentials  5% on presynaptic transmitter release  and 4% on transmitter recycling. in the cerebellar cortex  excitatory neurons use 75% and inhibitory neurons 25% of the signaling energy  and most energy is used on information processing by non-principal neurons: purkinje cells use only 15% of the signaling energy. the majority of cerebellar signaling energy use is on the maintenance of resting potentials (54%) and postsynaptic receptors (22%)  while action potentials account for only 17% of the signaling energy use.
1708,ldl inhibits the mediation of cholesterol efflux from macrophage foam cells by apoa-i-containing lipoproteins. a putative mechanism for foam cell formation.,although the accumulation of cholesterol in macrophages appears to be an initial step in atherogenesis  low-density lipoprotein (ldl)  a major risk factor for atherosclerosis  does not promote cholesterol accumulation in macrophages in its native form. on the other hand  apolipoprotein (apo) a-i-containing lipoprotein removes cholesterol from cholesterol-loaded macrophages (foam cells) and prevents cholesterol from accumulating in the cells. we examined the effect of ldl on cholesterol removal by two species of apoa-i-containing lipoproteins  one containing only apoa-i (lpa-i) and the other containing apoa-i and apoa-ii (lpa-i/a-ii). when foam cells were incubated with lpa-i or lpa-i/a-ii  cellular cholesterol mass was reduced. in contrast  when ldl was added  the cholesterol-reducing capacities of these lipoproteins were dose-dependently inhibited by ldl. in the presence of ldl  lpa-i and lpa-i/a-ii removed free cholesterol preferentially from ldl rather than from the plasma membrane of foam cells. in addition  a fair amount of cellular cholesterol was directly moved to ldl rather than to lpa-i or lpa-i/a-ii. the cellular cholesterol that moved to ldl was completely compensated for by the cholesterol influx from ldl to foam cells. thus  net cholesterol efflux (a combination of influx and efflux) from foam cells was inhibited by ldl. these results  taken together  indicate that ldl may accelerate foam cell formation by inhibiting cholesterol removal from the cells and that elevated levels of plasma ldl may become a risk factor for atherosclerosis by inhibiting the function of lpa-i and lpa-i/a-ii at the cellular level.
1710,pancreatic stellate cells: partners in crime with pancreatic cancer cells.,pancreatic stellate cells (psc) produce the stromal reaction in pancreatic cancer  but their role in cancer progression is not fully elucidated. we examined the influence of pscs on pancreatic cancer growth using (a) an orthotopic model of pancreatic cancer and (b) cultured human pscs (hpsc) and human pancreatic cancer cell lines miapaca-2 and panc-1. athymic mice received an intrapancreatic injection of saline  hpscs  miapaca-2 cells  or hpscs + miapaca-2. after 7 weeks  tumor size  metastases  and tumor histology were assessed. in vitro studies assessed the effect of cancer cell secretions on psc migration and the effect of hpsc secretions on cancer cell proliferation  apoptosis  and migration. possible mediators of the effects of hpsc secretions on cancer cell proliferation were examined using neutralizing antibodies. compared with mice receiving miapaca-2 cells alone  mice injected with hpscs + miapaca-2 exhibited (a) increased tumor size and regional and distant metastasis  (b) fibrotic bands (desmoplasia) containing activated pscs within tumors  and (c) increased tumor cell numbers. in vitro studies showed that  in the presence of pancreatic cancer cells  psc migration was significantly increased. furthermore  hpsc secretions induced the proliferation and migration  but inhibited the apoptosis  of miapaca-2 and panc-1 cells. the proliferative effect of hpsc secretions on pancreatic cancer cells was inhibited in the presence of neutralizing antibody to platelet-derived growth factor. our studies indicate a significant interaction between pancreatic cancer cells and stromal cells (pscs) and imply that pancreatic cancer cells recruit stromal cells to establish an environment that promotes cancer progression.
1712,mega7: molecular evolutionary genetics analysis version 7.0 for bigger datasets.,we present the latest version of the molecular evolutionary genetics analysis (mega) software  which contains many sophisticated methods and tools for phylogenomics and phylomedicine. in this major upgrade  mega has been optimized for use on 64-bit computing systems for analyzing larger datasets. researchers can now explore and analyze tens of thousands of sequences in mega the new version also provides an advanced wizard for building timetrees and includes a new functionality to automatically predict gene duplication events in gene family trees. the 64-bit mega is made available in two interfaces: graphical and command line. the graphical user interface (gui) is a native microsoft windows application that can also be used on mac os x. the command line mega is available as native applications for windows  linux  and mac os x. they are intended for use in high-throughput and scripted analysis. both versions are available from www.megasoftware.net free of charge.
1714,viable neutrophils release mitochondrial dna to form neutrophil extracellular traps,neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) represent extracellular structures able to bind and kill microorganisms. it is believed that they are generated by neutrophils undergoing cell death  allowing these dying or dead cells to kill microbes. we show that  following priming with granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor (gm-csf) and subsequent short-term toll-like receptor 4 (tlr4) or complement factor 5a (c5a) receptor stimulation  viable neutrophils are able to generate nets. strikingly  nets formed by living cells contain mitochondrial  but no nuclear  dna. pharmacological or genetic approaches to block reactive oxygen species (ros) production suggested that net formation is ros dependent. moreover  neutrophil populations stimulated with gm-csf and c5a showed increased survival compared with resting neutrophils  which did not generate nets. in conclusion  mitochondrial dna release by neutrophils and net formation do not require neutrophil death and do also not limit the lifespan of these cells.
1716,fact disrupts nucleosome structure by binding h2a-h2b with conserved peptide motifs.,fact  a heterodimer of spt16 and pob3  is an essential histone chaperone. we show that the h2a-h2b binding activity that is central to fact function resides in short acidic regions near the c termini of each subunit. mutations throughout these regions affect binding and cause correlated phenotypes that range from mild to lethal  with the largest individual contributions unexpectedly coming from an aromatic residue and a nearby carboxylate residue within each domain. spt16 and pob3 bind overlapping sites on h2a-h2b  and spt16-pob3 heterodimers simultaneously bind two h2a-h2b dimers  the same stoichiometry as the components of a nucleosome. an spt16:h2a-h2b crystal structure explains the biochemical and genetic data  provides a model for pob3 binding  and implies a mechanism for fact reorganization that we confirm biochemically. moreover  unexpected similarity to binding of anp32e and swr1 with h2a.z-h2b reveals that diverse h2a-h2b chaperones use common mechanisms of histone binding and regulating nucleosome functions.
1718,interferon alfa therapy for chronic hepatitis b in children: a multinational randomized controlled trial.,background & aims treatment of chronic hepatitis b with interferon alfa is not approved in children. the aim of this study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of interferon alfa (ifn-alpha) in children with chronic hepatitis b and increased transaminase levels. methods children were given either ifn-alpha2b (6 megaunits/m2 thrice weekly for 24 weeks) or no treatment. clearance of markers of viral replication was evaluated 24 weeks after therapy and after 48 weeks of observation in controls. results of 149 children enrolled  144 were evaluable (70 treated and 74 controls). serum hepatitis b e antigen and viral dna became negative in 26% of treated children and 11% of controls (p < 0.05). serum aminotransferase levels normalized and liver histology improved among responders. hepatitis b surface antigen became undetectable in 10% of treated patients and 1% of controls. female gender and interferon treatment were the only significant predictors of response. ethnic origin  baseline aminotransferase level  initial dna levels  and histology did not correlate with response. most adverse reactions were mild or moderate  and dose was reduced in 24% of children. conclusions in children with chronic hepatitis b  inf-alpha promotes loss of viral replication markers and surface antigen and improves aminotransferases and histology.
1720,angiopoietin-like protein 3 supports the activity of hematopoietic stem cells in the bone marrow niche.,the physiologic roles of angiopoietin-like proteins (angptls) in the hematopoietic system remain unknown. here we show that hematopoietic stem cells (hscs) in angptl3-null mice are decreased in number and quiescence. hscs transplanted into angptl3-null recipient mice exhibited impaired repopulation. bone marrow sinusoidal endothelial cells express high levels of angptl3 and are adjacent to hscs. importantly  bone marrow stromal cells or endothelium deficient in angptl3 have a significantly decreased ability to support the expansion of repopulating hscs. angptl3 represses the expression of the transcription factor ikaros  whose unregulated overexpression diminishes the repopulation activity of hscs. angptl3  as an extrinsic factor  thus supports the stemness of hscs in the bone marrow niche.
1722,epigenetic therapy ties myc depletion to reversing immune evasion and treating lung cancer,combining dna-demethylating agents (dna methyltransferase inhibitors [dnmtis]) with histone deacetylase inhibitors (hdacis) holds promise for enhancing cancer immune therapy. herein  pharmacologic and isoform specificity of hdacis are investigated to guide their addition to a dnmti  thus devising a new  low-dose  sequential regimen that imparts a robust anti-tumor effect for non-small-cell lung cancer (nsclc). using in-vitro-treated nsclc cell lines  we elucidate an interferon α/β-based transcriptional program with accompanying upregulation of antigen presentation machinery  mediated in part through double-stranded rna (dsrna) induction. this is accompanied by suppression of myc signaling and an increase in the t cell chemoattractant ccl5. use of this combination treatment schema in mouse models of nsclc reverses tumor immune evasion and modulates t cell exhaustion state towards memory and effector t cell phenotypes. key correlative science metrics emerge for an upcoming clinical trial  testing enhancement of immune checkpoint therapy for nsclc.
1724,surgical versus medical treatment with cyclooxygenase inhibitors for symptomatic patent ductus arteriosus in preterm infants.,background patent ductus arteriosus (pda) with significant left to right shunt in preterm infants increases morbidity and mortality. early closure of the ductus arteriosus may be achieved pharmacologically using cyclooxygenase inhibitors or by surgery. the efficacy of both treatment modalities is well established. however  the preferred initial treatment of a symptomatic pda in a preterm infant  surgical ligation or treatment with indomethacin  has not been well established. objectives to compare the effect of surgical ligation of pda vs. medical treatment with cyclooxygenase inhibitors (using indomethacin  ibuprofen  or mefenamic acid)  each used as the initial treatment  on neonatal mortality in preterm infants with a symptomatic pda. search strategy the standard search strategy of the cochrane neonatal review group was used. this included search of electronic databases: cochrane central register of controlled trials (central  the cochrane library  issue 2  2007)  medline (1966 - july 2007)  cinahl (1982 - july 2007)  embase (1980 - july 2007); and hand search of abstracts of pediatric academic societies annual meetings published in pediatric research (1990 - april 2002) or on line from may 2002 -july 2007. no language restrictions were applied. selection criteria all trials 1) using randomized or quasi-randomized patient allocation  2) in preterm infants < 37 weeks gestational age or low-birth-weight infants (< 2500 grams) with symptomatic pda in the neonatal period (< 28 days) and 3) comparing surgical ligation with medical treatment with cyclooxygenase inhibitors  each used as the initial treatment for closure of pda. data collection and analysis assessment of methodological quality and extraction of data for included trials was undertaken independently by the authors. revman 4.1 was used for analysis of the data. main results only one study  trial b in the report of gersony 1983  was found eligible. no additional studies were identified in the literature searches performed in july 2007. the trial compared the effect of surgical ligation of pda vs. medical treatment with indomethacin  each used as the primary treatment. no trials comparing surgery to other cyclooxygenase inhibitors (ibuprofen  mefenamic acid) were found. trial b of gersony 1983 enrolled 154 infants. the study found no statistically significant difference between surgical closure and indomethacin treatment in mortality during hospital stay  chronic lung disease  other bleeding  necrotizing enterocolitis  sepsis  creatinine level  or intraventricular hemorrhage. there was a statistically significant increase in the surgical group in incidence of pneumothorax [rr 2.68 (95% ci 1.45  4.93); rd 0.25 (95% ci 0.11  0.38); nnh 4 (95% ci 3  9)] and retinopathy of prematurity stage iii and iv [rr 3.80 (95% ci 1.12  12.93); rd 0.11 (95% ci 0.02  0.20)  nnh 9 (95% ci 5  50] compared to the indomethacin group. there was as expected a statistically significant decrease in failure of ductal closure rate in the surgical group as compared to the indomethacin group: [rr 0.04 (95% ci 0.01  0.27); rd -0.32 (95% ci -0.43  -0.21)  nnt 3 (95% ci 2  4)]. authors' conclusions the data regarding net benefit/harm are insufficient to make a conclusion as to whether surgical ligation or medical treatment with indomethacin is preferred as initial treatment for symptomatic pda in preterm infants. it should be noted that three recent observational studies indicated an increased risk for one or more of the following outcomes associated with pda ligation; chronic lung disease  retinopathy of prematurity and neurosensory impairment . it is possible that the duration of the "waiting-time" and transport to another facility with surgical capacity to have the pda ligated could adversely affect outcomes  as could the perioperative care.
1726,an analysis of age and gender influences on the relative risk for suicide and psychotropic drug self-poisoning.,psychiatric illness is a significant risk factor for both attempted and completed suicide and psychotropic medications account for 80% of all drug overdoses involving prescription medications. one challenge facing clinicians is to balance the benefit of treatment against the risk of drug overdose. the aim of the present study was to compare the age and gender distribution of patients prescribed psychotropic drugs with patients attempting and completing suicide with these drugs. data were obtained from the australian census and studies of general practitioner prescribing  patients who committed suicide or presented with self-poisoning within a defined geographic area. the characteristics of these populations were compared to calculate odds ratios for attempting or completing suicide with psychotropic drugs  before and after correction for rates of prescription  in different age and gender groups. the odds ratios (ors) for self-poisoning were higher for those aged less than 45 years and yet this group was least likely to be prescribed psychotropic drugs. men had a much higher rate of completed suicide using more lethal methods. the ors for self-poisoning and suicide with psychotropic drugs  after correction for prescription rates  for those aged 15 to 24 years were 11.1 and 1.7  respectively. those aged 25 to 44 years had ors of 4.9 and 4.3  and  by contrast  those over 75 years had ors of 0.03 and 0. women were slightly more likely to poison themselves with psychotropic drugs (or 1.2). however  the situation reversed after correction for prescription rates (or 0.69). it is concluded that greater caution should be exercised in prescribing for those under 45 years of age  given their relatively higher risk of drug overdose  and that the least toxic compounds should be used. the risk (of self-poisoning) among the elderly may have been overstated  so that some patients may have been denied the benefit of adequate treatment.
1728,niche-independent symmetrical self-renewal of a mammalian tissue stem cell,pluripotent mouse embryonic stem (es) cells multiply in simple monoculture by symmetrical divisions. in vivo  however  stem cells are generally thought to depend on specialised cellular microenvironments and to undergo predominantly asymmetric divisions. ex vivo expansion of pure populations of tissue stem cells has proven elusive. neural progenitor cells are propagated in combination with differentiating progeny in floating clusters called neurospheres. the proportion of stem cells in neurospheres is low  however  and they cannot be directly observed or interrogated. here we demonstrate that the complex neurosphere environment is dispensable for stem cell maintenance  and that the combination of fibroblast growth factor 2 (fgf-2) and epidermal growth factor (egf) is sufficient for derivation and continuous expansion by symmetrical division of pure cultures of neural stem (ns) cells. ns cells were derived first from mouse es cells. neural lineage induction was followed by growth factor addition in basal culture media. in the presence of only egf and fgf-2  resulting ns cells proliferate continuously  are diploid  and clonogenic. after prolonged expansion  they remain able to differentiate efficiently into neurons and astrocytes in vitro and upon transplantation into the adult brain. colonies generated from single ns cells all produce neurons upon growth factor withdrawal. ns cells uniformly express morphological  cell biological  and molecular features of radial glia  developmental precursors of neurons and glia. consistent with this profile  adherent ns cell lines can readily be established from foetal mouse brain. similar ns cells can be generated from human es cells and human foetal brain. the extrinsic factors egf plus fgf-2 are sufficient to sustain pure symmetrical self-renewing divisions of ns cells. the resultant cultures constitute the first known example of tissue-specific stem cells that can be propagated without accompanying differentiation. these homogenous cultures will enable delineation of molecular mechanisms that define a tissue-specific stem cell and allow direct comparison with pluripotent es cells.
1730,ovarian surface epithelium in patients with severe ovarian infertility: a potential source of cells expressing markers of pluripotent/multipotent stem cells,the aim of this study was to confirm the presence of stem cells in the ovarian surface epithelium of patients with premature ovarian failure and no mature follicles and oocytes. in these patients  small round cells of unknown origin expressing sox-2 marker of pluripotency were observed among the epithelial cells just after the ovarian surface epithelium scraping. these cells were an integral part of the ovarian surface epithelium. when the scraped cells were cultured in a medium with added follicular fluid to provide some ovarian niche  primitive oocyte-like cells and typical round-shaped cell clusters positively stained on alkaline phosphatase  and markers of pluripotency  such as sox-2 and ssea-4  were developed. these markers were expressed early and also later in the culture. single oocyte-like cells expressed genes oct4a  sox-2  nanog  nanos  stella  cd9  lin28  klf4  gdf3  and myc  characteristic for pluripotent stem cells. the results of this study confirmed the presence of putative stem cells in the ovarian surface epithelium of these patients and provided some basis to create a stem cell line in the future.
1732,nutrition and physical activity guidelines for cancer survivors.,cancer survivors are often highly motivated to seek information about food choices  physical activity  and dietary supplements to improve their treatment outcomes  quality of life  and overall survival. to address these concerns  the american cancer society (acs) convened a group of experts in nutrition  physical activity  and cancer survivorship to evaluate the scientific evidence and best clinical practices related to optimal nutrition and physical activity after the diagnosis of cancer. this report summarizes their findings and is intended to present health care providers with the best possible information with which to help cancer survivors and their families make informed choices related to nutrition and physical activity. the report discusses nutrition and physical activity guidelines during the continuum of cancer care  briefly highlighting important issues during cancer treatment and for patients with advanced cancer  but focusing largely on the needs of the population of individuals who are disease free or who have stable disease following their recovery from treatment. it also discusses select nutrition and physical activity issues such as body weight  food choices  food safety  and dietary supplements; issues related to selected cancer sites; and common questions about diet  physical activity  and cancer survivorship.
1734,a distinctive dna damage response in human hematopoietic stem cells reveals an apoptosis-independent role for p53 in self-renewal.,highly regenerative tissues such as blood must possess effective dna damage responses (ddr) that balance long-term regeneration with protection from leukemogenesis. hematopoietic stem cells (hscs) sustain life-long blood production  yet their response to dna damage remains largely unexplored. we report that human hscs exhibit delayed dna double-strand break rejoining  persistent gammah2ax foci  and enhanced p53- and aspp1-dependent apoptosis after gamma-radiation compared to progenitors. p53 inactivation or bcl-2 overexpression reduced radiation-induced apoptosis and preserved in vivo repopulating hsc function. despite similar protection from irradiation-induced apoptosis  only bcl-2-overexpressing hscs showed higher self-renewal capacity  establishing that intact p53 positively regulates self-renewal independently from apoptosis. the reduced self-renewal of hscs with inactivated p53 was associated with increased spontaneous gammah2ax foci in secondary transplants of hscs. our data reveal distinct physiological roles of p53 that together ensure optimal hsc function: apoptosis regulation and prevention of gammah2ax foci accumulation upon hsc self-renewal.
1736,epigenetic-induced repression of microrna-205 is associated with med1 activation and a poorer prognosis in localized prostate cancer,deregulation of microrna (mirna) expression can have a critical role in carcinogenesis. here we show in prostate cancer that mirna-205 (mir-205) transcription is commonly repressed and the mir-205 locus is hypermethylated. loc642587  the mir-205 host gene of unknown function  is also concordantly inactivated. we show that mir-205 targets mediator 1 (med1  also called trap220 and pparbp) for transcriptional silencing in normal prostate cells  leading to reduction in med1 mrna levels  and in total and active phospho-med1 protein. overexpression of mir-205 in prostate cancer cells negatively affects cell viability  consistent with a tumor suppressor function. we found that hypermethylation of the mir-205 locus was strongly related with a decrease in mir-205 expression and an increase in med1 expression in primary tumor samples (n=14)  when compared with matched normal prostate (n=7). an expanded patient cohort (tumor n=149  matched normal n=30) also showed significant mir-205 dna methylation in tumors compared with normal  and mir-205 hypermethylation is significantly associated with biochemical recurrence (hazard ratio=2.005  95% confidence interval (1.109  3.625)  p=0.02)  in patients with low preoperative prostate specific antigen. in summary  these results suggest that mir-205 is an epigenetically regulated tumor suppressor that targets med1 and may provide a potential biomarker in prostate cancer management.
1738,cdd: conserved domains and protein three-dimensional structure,cdd  the conserved domain database  is part of ncbi's entrez query and retrieval system and is also accessible via http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/structure/cdd/cdd.shtml. cdd provides annotation of protein sequences with the location of conserved domain footprints and functional sites inferred from these footprints. pre-computed annotation is available via entrez  and interactive search services accept single protein or nucleotide queries  as well as batch submissions of protein query sequences  utilizing rps-blast to rapidly identify putative matches. cdd incorporates several protein domain and full-length protein model collections  and maintains an active curation effort that aims at providing fine grained classifications for major and well-characterized protein domain families  as supported by available protein three-dimensional (3d) structure and the published literature. to this date  the majority of protein 3d structures are represented by models tracked by cdd  and cdd curators are characterizing novel families that emerge from protein structure determination efforts.
1740,preparing the outbreak assistance laboratory network in the netherlands for the detection of the influenza virus a(h1n1) variant.,background late april 2009  human infection with variant influenza virus a(h1n1)v emerged in the northern americas posing a threat that this virus may become the next pandemic influenza virus. objectives to prepare laboratories for surge capacity for molecular diagnosis of patients suspected for a(h1n1)v infection in the netherlands. study design a panel of 10 blinded specimens containing seasonal a(h1n1) or a(h3n2)  or a/netherlands/602/2009(h1n1)v influenza virus  or negative control was distributed to the outbreak assistance laboratories (oal) together with influenza virus a (m-gene)  swine influenza virus a (np-gene) and influenza virus a(h1n1)v (h1v-gene) specific primers and probes and protocol (cdc atlanta  usa). laboratories were asked to implement and test this protocol. results all oal were able to detect a(h1n1)v using the cdc m-gene reagents  the majority with similar sensitivity as the in-house m-gene based assays. rt-pcrs used in routine diagnostic setting in the oal specifically designed to detect h1  h3  or ns1 from seasonal influenza a viruses  did not or at very low level cross-react with a(h1n1)v. the cdc swine np-gene and h1v-gene rt-pcrs showed somewhat reduced sensitivity compared to the cdc and in-house m-gene rt-pcrs. in contrast  in-house developed a(h1n1)v specific h1v-gene and n1v-gene rt-pcrs showed equal sensitivity to cdc and in-house m-gene rt-pcrs. conclusions the dutch oal are prepared for detection and specific identification of a(h1n1)v  although some level of cross-reactivity was observed with seasonal influenza viruses. additionally  m-gene based generic influenza a virus detection is recommended to be able to detect emerging influenza a viruses in routine settings.
1742,acute myopericarditis after multiple vaccinations in an adolescent: case report and review of the literature.,we report a case of postvaccination acute myopericarditis in an adolescent. the patient presented with acute chest pain  diffuse st-segment elevation  and elevated cardiac enzyme levels. cardiac mri was consistent with acute myocarditis. he recovered within a few days with nonsteroidal antiinflammatory treatment and remains clinically stable  with improvement of mri findings at the 10-week follow-up. postvaccination cases of myopericarditis reported in the pediatric literature are also reviewed.
1744,protoplasmic astrocytes in ca1 stratum radiatum occupy separate anatomical domains.,protoplasmic astrocytes are increasingly thought to interact extensively with neuronal elements in the brain and to influence their activity. recent reports have also begun to suggest that physiologically  and perhaps functionally  diverse forms of these cells may be present in the cns. our current understanding of astrocyte form and distribution is based predominantly on studies that used the astrocytic marker glial fibrillary acidic protein (gfap) and on studies using metal-impregnation techniques. the prevalent opinion  based on studies using these methods  is that astrocytic processes overlap extensively and primarily share the underlying neuropil. however  both of these techniques have serious shortcomings for visualizing the interactions among these structurally complex cells. in the present study  intracellular injection combined with immunohistochemistry for gfap show that gfap delineates only approximately 15% of the total volume of the astrocyte. as a result  gfap-based images have led to incorrect conclusions regarding the interaction of processes of neighboring astrocytes. to investigate these interactions in detail  groups of adjacent protoplasmic astrocytes in the ca1 stratum radiatum were injected with fluorescent intracellular tracers of distinctive emissive wavelengths and analyzed using three-dimensional (3d) confocal analysis and electron microscopy. our findings show that protoplasmic astrocytes establish primarily exclusive territories. the knowledge of how the complex morphology of protoplasmic astrocytes affects their 3d relationships with other astrocytes  oligodendroglia  neurons  and vasculature of the brain should have important implications for our understanding of nervous system function.
1746,high-resolution sperm typing of meiotic recombination in the mouse mhc ebeta gene.,meiotic crossovers detected by pedigree analysis in the mouse mhc cluster into hotspots. to explore the properties of hotspots  we subjected the class ii e(beta) gene to high-resolution sperm crossover analysis. we confirm the presence of a highly localized hotspot 1.0-1.6 kb wide in the second intron of e(beta) and show that it is flanked by dna which is almost completely recombinationally inert. mice heterozygous for haplotype s and another mhc haplotype show major haplotype-dependant variation in crossover rate but always the same hotspot  even in crosses including the highly diverged p haplotype. crossovers in reciprocal orientations occur at similar rates but show different distributions across the hotspot  with the position of centre points in the two orientations shifted on average by 400 bp. this asymmetry results in crossover products showing biased gene conversion in favour of hotspot markers from the non-initiating haplotype  and supports the double-strand break repair model of recombination  with haplotype s as the most efficient crossover initiator. the detailed behaviour of the e(beta) hotspot  including evidence for highly localized recombination initiation  is strikingly similar to human hotspots.
1748,global analysis of atm polymorphism reveals significant functional constraint.,atm  the gene that is mutated in ataxia-telangiectasia  is associated with cerebellar degeneration  abnormal proliferation of small blood vessels  and cancer. these clinically important manifestations have stimulated interest in defining the sequence variation in the atm gene. therefore  we undertook a comprehensive survey of sequence variation in atm in diverse human populations. the protein-encoding exons of the gene (9 168 bp) and the adjacent intron and untranslated sequences (14 661 bp) were analyzed in 93 individuals from seven major human populations. in addition  the coding sequence was analyzed in one chimpanzee  one gorilla  one orangutan  and one old world monkey. in human atm  88 variant sites were discovered by denaturing high-performance liquid chromatography  which is 96%-100% sensitive for detection of dna sequence variation. atm was compared to 14 other autosomal genes for nucleotide diversity. the noncoding regions of atm had diversity values comparable to other genes  but the coding regions had very low diversity  especially in the last 29% of the protein sequence. a test of the neutral evolution hypothesis  through use of the hudson/kreitman/aguadé statistic  revealed that this region of the human atm gene was significantly constrained relative to that of the orangutan  the old world monkey  and the mouse  but not relative to that of the chimpanzee or the gorilla. atm displayed extensive linkage disequilibrium  consistent with suppression of meiotic recombination at this locus. seven haplotypes were defined. two haplotypes accounted for 82% of all chromosomes analyzed in all major populations; two others carrying the same d126e missense polymorphism accounted for 33% of chromosomes in africa but were never observed outside of africa. the high frequency of this polymorphism may be due either to a population expansion within africa or to selective pressure.
1750,gata-3 regulates hematopoietic stem cell maintenance and cell-cycle entry.,maintaining hematopoietic stem cell (hsc) quiescence is a critical property for the life-long generation of blood cells. approximately 75% of cells in a highly enriched long-term repopulating hsc (lt-hsc) pool (lin(-)sca1(+)c-kit(hi)cd150(+)cd48(-)) are quiescent  with only a small percentage of the lt-hscs in cycle. transcription factor gata-3 is known to be vital for the development of t cells at multiple stages in the thymus and for th2 differentiation in the peripheral organs. although it is well documented that gata-3 is expressed in hscs  a role for gata-3 in any prethymic progenitor cell has not been established. in the present study  we show that gata3-null mutant mice generate fewer lt-hscs and that fewer gata3-null lt-hscs are in cycle. furthermore  gata3 mutant hematopoietic progenitor cells fail to be recruited into an increased cycling state after 5-fluorouracil-induced myelosuppression. therefore  gata-3 is required for the maintenance of a normal number of lt-hscs and for their entry into the cell cycle.
1752,slc1a5 mediates glutamine transport required for lung cancer cell growth and survival.,purpose we have previously identified solute-linked carrier family a1 member 5 (slc1a5) as an overexpressed protein in a shotgun proteomic analysis of stage i non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) when compared with matched controls. we hypothesized that overexpression of slc1a5 occurs to meet the metabolic demand for lung cancer cell growth and survival. experimental design to test our hypothesis  we first analyzed the protein expression of slc1a5 in archival lung cancer tissues by immunohistochemistry and immunoblotting (n = 98) and in cell lines (n = 36). to examine slc1a5 involvement in amino acid transportation  we conducted kinetic analysis of l-glutamine (gln) uptake in lung cancer cell lines in the presence and absence of a pharmacologic inhibitor of slc1a5  gamma-l-glutamyl-p-nitroanilide (gpna). finally  we examined the effect of gln deprivation and uptake inhibition on cell growth  cell-cycle progression  and growth signaling pathways of five lung cancer cell lines. results our results show that (i) slc1a5 protein is expressed in 95% of squamous cell carcinomas (scc)  74% of adenocarcinomas (adc)  and 50% of neuroendocrine tumors; (ii) slc1a5 is located at the cytoplasmic membrane and is significantly associated with scc histology and male gender; (iii) 68% of gln is transported in a na(+)-dependent manner  50% of which is attributed to slc1a5 activity; and (iv) pharmacologic and genetic targeting of slc1a5 decreased cell growth and viability in lung cancer cells  an effect mediated in part by mtor signaling. conclusions these results suggest that slc1a5 plays a key role in gln transport controlling lung cancer cells' metabolism  growth  and survival.
1754,intranasal insulin improves cognition and modulates β-amyloid in early ad,background: reduced brain insulin signaling and low csf-to-plasma insulin ratios have been observed in patients with alzheimer disease (ad). furthermore  intracerebroventricular or iv insulin administration improve memory  alter evoked potentials  and modulate neurotransmitters  possibly by augmenting low brain levels. after intranasal administration  insulin-like peptides follow extracellular pathways to the brain within 15 minutes. objective: we tested the hypothesis that daily intranasal insulin treatment would facilitate cognition in patients with early ad or its prodrome  amnestic mild cognitive impairment (mci). the proportion of verbal information retained after a delay period was the planned primary outcome measure. secondary outcome measures included attention  caregiver rating of functional status  and plasma levels of insulin  glucose  β-amyloid  and cortisol. methods: twenty-five participants were randomly assigned to receive either placebo (n = 12) or 20 iu bid intranasal insulin treatment (n = 13) using an electronic atomizer  and 24 participants completed the study. participants  caregivers  and all clinical evaluators were blinded to treatment assignment. cognitive measures and blood were obtained at baseline and after 21 days of treatment. results: fasting plasma glucose and insulin were unchanged with treatment. the insulin-treated group retained more verbal information after a delay compared with the placebo-assigned group ( p = 0.0374). insulin-treated subjects also showed improved attention ( p = 0.0108) and functional status ( p = 0.0410). insulin treatment raised fasting plasma concentrations of the short form of the β-amyloid peptide (aβ40; p = 0.0471) without affecting the longer isoform (aβ42)  resulting in an increased aβ40/42 ratio ( p = 0.0207). conclusions: the results of this pilot study support further investigation of the benefits of intranasal insulin for patients with alzheimer disease  and suggest that intranasal peptide administration may be a novel approach to the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders.
1756,β-site amyloid precursor protein-cleaving enzyme 1(bace1) inhibitor treatment induces aβ5-x peptides through alternative amyloid precursor protein cleavage,introduction the β-secretase enzyme  β-site amyloid precursor protein-cleaving enzyme 1 (bace1)  cleaves amyloid precursor protein (app) in the first step in β-amyloid (aβ) peptide production. thus  bace1 is a key target for candidate disease-modifying treatment of alzheimer's disease. in a previous exploratory aβ biomarker study  we found that bace1 inhibitor treatment resulted in decreased levels of aβ1-34 together with increased aβ5-40  suggesting that these aβ species may be novel pharmacodynamic biomarkers in clinical trials. we have now examined whether the same holds true in humans. methods in an investigator-blind  placebo-controlled and randomized study  healthy subjects (n =18) were randomly assigned to receive a single dose of 30 mg of ly2811376 (n =6)  90 mg of ly2811376 (n =6)  or placebo (n =6). we used hybrid immunoaffinity-mass spectrometry (hi-ms) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays to monitor a variety of aβ peptides. results here  we demonstrate dose-dependent changes in cerebrospinal fluid (csf) aβ1-34  aβ5-40 and aβ5-x after treatment with the bace1-inhibitor ly2811376. aβ5-40 and aβ5-x increased dose-dependently  as reflected by two independent methods  while aβ1-34 dose-dependently decreased. conclusion using hi-ms for the first time in a study where subjects have been treated with a bace inhibitor  we confirm that csf aβ1-34 may be useful in clinical trials on bace1 inhibitors to monitor target engagement. since it is less hydrophobic than longer aβ species  it is less susceptible to preanalytical confounding factors and may thus be a more stable marker. by independent measurement techniques  we also show that bace1 inhibition in humans is associated with app-processing into n-terminally truncated aβ peptides via a bace1-independent pathway. trial registration clinicaltrials.gov nct00838084. registered: first received: january 23  2009  last updated: july 14  2009  last verified: july 2009.
1758,protein localization in electron micrographs using fluorescence nanoscopy,a complete portrait of a cell requires a detailed description of its molecular topography: proteins must be linked to particular organelles. immunocytochemical electron microscopy can reveal locations of proteins with nanometer resolution but is limited by the quality of fixation  the paucity of antibodies and the inaccessibility of antigens. here we describe correlative fluorescence electron microscopy for the nanoscopic localization of proteins in electron micrographs. we tagged proteins with the fluorescent proteins citrine or tdeos and expressed them in caenorhabditis elegans  fixed the worms and embedded them in plastic. we imaged the tagged proteins from ultrathin sections using stimulated emission depletion (sted) microscopy or photoactivated localization microscopy (palm). fluorescence correlated with organelles imaged in electron micrographs from the same sections. we used these methods to localize histones  a mitochondrial protein and a presynaptic dense projection protein in electron micrographs.
1760,arachidonic acid in the diabetic rat kidney,in the rat isolated perfused kidney  arachidonic acid elicits cyclooxygenase-dependent vasoconstriction through activation of pgh2/txa2 receptors; responses are enhanced in kidneys from diabetic rats. this study examined the roles of cyclooxygenase-1/cyclooxygenase-2 in the enhanced renal vasoconstrictor effect of arachidonic acid in streptozotocin-diabetic rats. release of 20-hete was also determined  as this eicosanoid has been reported to elicit cyclooxygenase-dependent vasoconstriction. we confirmed that vasoconstrictor responses to arachidonic acid were enhanced in the diabetic rat kidney associated with a 2-fold-greater increase in the release of 6-ketopgf1alpha  which was used as an index of cyclooxygenase activity. one and three micrograms of arachidonic acid increased perfusion pressure by 85+/-37 and 186+/-6 mm hg  respectively  in diabetic rat kidneys compared with 3+/-1 and 17+/-8 mm hg  respectively  in control rat kidneys. inhibition of both cyclooxygenase isoforms with indomethacin (10 micromol/l) abolished the vasoconstrictor response to arachidonic acid in both diabetic and control rat kidneys  whereas inhibition of cyclooxygenase-2 with nimesulide (5 micromol/l) reduced perfusion pressure responses to 1 and 3 microg arachidonic acid only in the diabetic rat kidney to 15+/-8 and 108+/-26 mm hg  respectively  consistent with a 3-fold increase in the renal cortical expression of cyclooxygenase-2. 20-hete release from the diabetic rat kidney was reduced almost 6-fold and was not increased in response to arachidonic acid. these results demonstrate that the renal vasoconstrictor effect of arachidonic acid is solely dependent on cyclooxygenase activity  with no evidence for a contribution from 20-hete; in the diabetic rat  cyclooxygenase-2 activity contributes to the renal vasoconstrictor effect of arachidonic acid.
1762,a functionally characterized test set of human induced pluripotent stem cells,human induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs) present exciting opportunities for studying development and for in vitro disease modeling. however  reported variability in the behavior of ipscs has called their utility into question. we established a test set of 16 ipsc lines from seven individuals of varying age  sex and health status  and extensively characterized the lines with respect to pluripotency and the ability to terminally differentiate. under standardized procedures in two independent laboratories  13 of the ipsc lines gave rise to functional motor neurons with a range of efficiencies similar to that of human embryonic stem cells (escs). although three ipsc lines were resistant to neural differentiation  early neuralization rescued their performance. therefore  all 16 ipsc lines passed a stringent test of differentiation capacity despite variations in karyotype and in the expression of early pluripotency markers and transgenes. this ipsc and esc test set is a robust resource for those interested in the basic biology of stem cells and their applications.
1764,myeloperoxidase acts as a profibrotic mediator of atrial fibrillation,observational clinical and ex vivo studies have established a strong association between atrial fibrillation and inflammation. however  whether inflammation is the cause or the consequence of atrial fibrillation and which specific inflammatory mediators may increase the atria's susceptibility to fibrillation remain elusive. here we provide experimental and clinical evidence for the mechanistic involvement of myeloperoxidase (mpo)  a heme enzyme abundantly expressed by neutrophils  in the pathophysiology of atrial fibrillation. mpo-deficient mice pretreated with angiotensin ii (angii) to provoke leukocyte activation showed lower atrial tissue abundance of the mpo product 3-chlorotyrosine  reduced activity of matrix metalloproteinases and blunted atrial fibrosis as compared to wild-type mice. upon right atrial electrophysiological stimulation  mpo-deficient mice were protected from atrial fibrillation  which was reversed when mpo was restored. humans with atrial fibrillation had higher plasma concentrations of mpo and a larger mpo burden in right atrial tissue as compared to individuals devoid of atrial fibrillation. in the atria  mpo colocalized with markedly increased formation of 3-chlorotyrosine. our data demonstrate that mpo is a crucial prerequisite for structural remodeling of the myocardium  leading to an increased vulnerability to atrial fibrillation.
1766,domestication and divergence of saccharomyces cerevisiae beer yeasts,whereas domestication of livestock  pets  and crops is well documented  it is still unclear to what extent microbes associated with the production of food have also undergone human selection and where the plethora of industrial strains originates from. here  we present the genomes and phenomes of 157 industrial saccharomyces cerevisiae yeasts. our analyses reveal that today's industrial yeasts can be divided into five sublineages that are genetically and phenotypically separated from wild strains and originate from only a few ancestors through complex patterns of domestication and local divergence. large-scale phenotyping and genome analysis further show strong industry-specific selection for stress tolerance  sugar utilization  and flavor production  while the sexual cycle and other phenotypes related to survival in nature show decay  particularly in beer yeasts. together  these results shed light on the origins  evolutionary history  and phenotypic diversity of industrial yeasts and provide a resource for further selection of superior strains. paperclip.
1768,biallelic mutations in palb2 cause fanconi anemia subtype fa-n and predispose to childhood cancer,palb2 was recently identified as a nuclear binding partner of brca2. biallelic brca2 mutations cause fanconi anemia subtype fa-d1 and predispose to childhood malignancies. we identified pathogenic mutations in palb2 (also known as fancn) in seven families affected with fanconi anemia and cancer in early childhood  demonstrating that biallelic palb2 mutations cause a new subtype of fanconi anemia  fa-n  and  similar to biallelic brca2 mutations  confer a high risk of childhood cancer.
1770,localization of na+ channel isoforms at the atrioventricular junction and atrioventricular node in the rat.,background the electrical activity of the atrioventricular node (avn) is functionally heterogeneous  but how this relates to distinct cell types and the 3-dimensional structure of the avn is unknown. to address this  we have studied the expression of na(v)1.5 and other na+ channel isoforms in the avn. methods and results the rat avn was identified by masson's trichrome staining together with immunolabeling of marker proteins: connexin40  connexin43  desmoplakin  atrial natriuretic peptide  and hyperpolarization-activated and cyclic nucleotide-gated channel 4. na+ channel expression was investigated with immunohistochemistry with isoform-specific na+ channel antibodies. na(v)1.1 was distributed in a similar manner to na(v)1.5. na(v)1.2 was not detected. na(v)1.3 labeling was present in nerve fibers and cell bodies (but not myocytes) and was abundant in the penetrating atrioventricular (av) bundle and the common bundle but was much less abundant in other regions. na(v)1.5 labeling was abundant in the atrial and ventricular myocardium and the left bundle branch. na(v)1.5 labeling was absent in the open node  penetrating av bundle  av ring bundle  and common bundle but present at a reduced level in the inferior nodal extension and transitional zone. na(v)1.6 was not detected. conclusions our findings provide molecular evidence of multiple electrophysiological cell types at the av junction. impaired av conduction as a result of mutations in or loss of na(v)1.5 must be the result of impaired conduction in the avn inputs (inferior nodal extension and transitional zone) or output (bundle branches) rather than the avn itself (open node and penetrating av bundle).
1772,interleukin-2 and inflammation induce distinct transcriptional programs that promote the differentiation of effector cytolytic t cells.,interleukin(il)-2 and inflammation regulate effector and memory cytolytic t-lymphocyte (ctl) generation during infection. we demonstrate a complex interplay between il-2 and inflammatory signals during ctl differentiation. il-2 stimulation induced the transcription factor eomesodermin (eomes)  upregulated perforin (prf1) transcription  and repressed re-expression of memory ctl markers bcl6 and il-7ralpha. binding of eomes and stat5 to prf1 cis-regulatory regions correlated with transcriptional initiation (increased recruitment of rna polymerase ii to the prf1 promoter). inflammation (cpg  il-12) enhanced expression of il-2ralpha and the transcription factor t-bet  but countered late eomes and perforin induction while preventing il-7ralpha repression by il-2. after infection of mice with lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus  il-2ralpha-deficient effector cd8(+) t cells expressed more bcl6 but less perforin and granzyme b  formed fewer klrg-1(+) and t-bet-expressing ctl  and killed poorly. thus  inflammation influences both effector and memory ctl differentiation  whereas persistent il-2 stimulation promotes effector at the expense of memory ctl development.
1774,genomic stability and tumour suppression by the apc/c cofactor cdh1,the anaphase promoting complex or cyclosome (apc/c) is a ubiquitin protein ligase that  together with cdc20 or cdh1  targets cell-cycle proteins for degradation. apc/c–cdh1 specifically promotes protein degradation in late mitosis and g1. mutant embryos lacking cdh1 die at e9.5–e10.5 due to defects in the endoreduplication of trophoblast cells and placental malfunction. this lethality is prevented when cdh1 is expressed in the placenta. cdh1-deficient cells proliferate inefficiently and accumulate numeric and structural chromosomal aberrations  indicating that cdh1 contributes to the maintenance of genomic stability. cdh1 heterozygous animals show increased susceptibility to spontaneous tumours  suggesting that cdh1 functions as a haploinsufficient tumour suppressor. these heterozygous mice also show several defects in behaviour associated with increased proliferation of stem cells in the nervous system. these results indicate that cdh1 is required for preventing unscheduled proliferation of specific progenitor cells and protecting mammalian cells from genomic instability.
1776,the effects of self-administering emergency contraception.,background emergency postcoital contraception prevents pregnancy  but it must be prescribed by a doctor and taken within 72 hours of intercourse. it has been proposed that emergency contraception be made available without a prescription. we undertook a study to learn how women might behave if given a supply of emergency contraceptive pills to keep at home. methods we assigned 553 women to be given a replaceable supply of hormonal emergency contraceptive pills to take home (the treatment group) and 530 women to use emergency contraception obtained by visiting a doctor (the control group). the frequency of use of emergency contraception  the use of other contraceptives  and the incidence of unwanted pregnancy were determined in both groups of women one year later. results the results for 549 women in the treatment group and 522 women in the control group were available for analysis. three hundred seventy-nine of the women in the treatment group (69 percent) and 326 of the women in the control group (62 percent) contributed detailed information at follow-up. one hundred eighty of the women in the treatment group (47 percent) used emergency contraception at least once. among those who returned the study questionnaire  98 percent used emergency contraception correctly. there were no serious adverse effects. eighty-seven women in the control group (27 percent) used emergency contraception at least once (p<0.001 for the comparison with the treatment group). the women in the treatment group were not more likely to use emergency contraception repeatedly. their use of other methods of contraception was no different from that of the women in the control group. there were 18 unintended pregnancies in the treatment group and 25 in the control group (relative risk  0.7; 95 percent confidence interval  0.4 to 1.2). conclusions making emergency contraception more easily obtainable does no harm and may reduce the rate of unwanted pregnancies.
1778,comparison of pioglitazone vs glimepiride on progression of coronary atherosclerosis in patients with type 2 diabetes: the periscope randomized controlled trial.,context no antidiabetic regimen has demonstrated the ability to reduce progression of coronary atherosclerosis. commonly used oral glucose-lowering agents include sulfonylureas  which are insulin secretagogues  and thiazolidinediones  which are insulin sensitizers. objective to compare the effects of an insulin sensitizer  pioglitazone  with an insulin secretagogue  glimepiride  on the progression of coronary atherosclerosis in patients with type 2 diabetes. design  setting  and participants double-blind  randomized  multicenter trial at 97 academic and community hospitals in north and south america (enrollment august 2003-march 2006) in 543 patients with coronary disease and type 2 diabetes. interventions a total of 543 patients underwent coronary intravascular ultrasonography and were randomized to receive glimepiride  1 to 4 mg  or pioglitazone  15 to 45 mg  for 18 months with titration to maximum dosage  if tolerated. atherosclerosis progression was measured by repeat intravascular ultrasonography examination in 360 patients at study completion. main outcome measure change in percent atheroma volume (pav) from baseline to study completion. results least squares mean pav increased 0.73% (95% ci  0.33% to 1.12%) with glimepiride and decreased 0.16% (95% ci  -0.57% to 0.25%) with pioglitazone(p = .002). an alternative analysis imputing values for noncompleters based on baseline characteristics showed an increase in pav of 0.64% (95% ci  0.23% to 1.05%) for glimepiride and a decrease of 0.06% (-0.47% to 0.35%) for pioglitazone (between-group p = .02). mean (sd) baseline hba(1c) levels were 7.4% (1.0%) in both groups and declined during treatment an average 0.55% (95% ci  -0.68% to -0.42%) with pioglitazone and 0.36% (95% ci  -0.48% to -0.24%) with glimepiride (between-group p = .03). in the pioglitazone group  compared with glimepiride  high-density lipoprotein levels increased 5.7 mg/dl (95% ci  4.4 to 7.0 mg/dl; 16.0%) vs 0.9 mg/dl (95% ci  -0.3 to 2.1 mg/dl; 4.1%)  and median triglyceride levels decreased 16.3 mg/dl (95% ci  -27.7 to -11.0 mg/dl; 15.3%) vs an increase of 3.3 mg/dl (95% ci  -10.7 to 11.7 mg/dl; 0.6%) (p < .001 for both comparisons). median fasting insulin levels decreased with pioglitazone and increased with glimepiride (p < .001). hypoglycemia was more common in the glimepiride group and edema  fractures  and decreased hemoglobin levels occurred more frequently in the pioglitazone group. conclusion in patients with type 2 diabetes and coronary artery disease  treatment with pioglitazone resulted in a significantly lower rate of progression of coronary atherosclerosis compared with glimepiride. trial registration clinicaltrials.gov identifier: nct00225277.
1780,human cytomegalovirus latency-associated proteins elicit immune-suppressive il-10 producing cd4+ t cells,human cytomegalovirus (hcmv) is a widely prevalent human herpesvirus  which  after primary infection  persists in the host for life. in healthy individuals  the virus is well controlled by the hcmv-specific t cell response. a key feature of this persistence  in the face of a normally robust host immune response  is the establishment of viral latency. in contrast to lytic infection  which is characterised by extensive viral gene expression and virus production  long-term latency in cells of the myeloid lineage is characterised by highly restricted expression of viral genes  including ul138 and luna. here we report that both ul138 and luna-specific t cells were detectable directly ex vivo in healthy hcmv seropositive subjects and that this response is principally cd4⁺ t cell mediated. these ul138-specific cd4⁺ t cells are able to mediate mhc class ii restricted cytotoxicity and  importantly  show ifnγ effector function in the context of both lytic and latent infection. furthermore  in contrast to cdcd4⁺ t cells specific to antigens expressed solely during lytic infection  both the ul138 and luna-specific cd4⁺ t cell responses included cd4⁺ t cells that secreted the immunosuppressive cytokine cil-10. we also show that cil-10 expressing cd4⁺ t-cells are directed against latently expressed us28 and ul111a. taken together  our data show that latency-associated gene products of hcmv generate cd4⁺ t cell responses in vivo  which are able to elicit effector function in response to both lytic and latently infected cells. importantly and in contrast to cd4⁺ t cell populations  which recognise antigens solely expressed during lytic infection  include a subset of cells that secrete the immunosuppressive cytokine cil-10. this suggests that hcmv skews the t cell responses to latency-associated antigens to one that is overall suppressive in order to sustain latent carriage in vivo.
1782,defective regulation of adipose tissue autophagy in obesity,objectives: autophagy is a highly regulated process that has an important role in the control of a wide range of cellular functions  such as organelle recycling  nutrient availability and tissue differentiation. a recent study has shown an increased autophagic activity in the adipose tissue of obese subjects  and a role for autophagy in obesity-associated insulin resistance was proposed. body mass reduction is the most efficient approach to tackle insulin resistance in over-weight subjects; however  the impact of weight loss in adipose tissue autophagy is unknown. subjects:adipose tissue autophagy was evaluated in mice and humans. results:first  a mouse model of diet-induced obesity and diabetes was maintained on a 15-day  40% caloric restriction. at baseline  markers of autophagy were increased in obese mice as compared with lean controls. upon caloric restriction  autophagy increased in the lean mice  whereas it decreased in the obese mice. the reintroduction of ad libitum feeding was sufficient to rapidly reduce autophagy in the lean mice and increase autophagy in the obese mice. in the second part of the study  autophagy was evaluated in the subcutaneous adipose tissue of nine obese-non-diabetic and six obese-diabetic subjects undergoing bariatric surgery for body mass reduction. specimens were collected during the surgery and approximately 1 year later. markers of systemic inflammation  such as tumor necrosis factor-1α  interleukin (il)-6 and il-1β were evaluated. as in the mouse model  human obesity was associated with increased autophagy  and body mass reduction led to an attenuation of autophagy in the adipose tissue. conclusion:obesity and caloric overfeeding are associated with the defective regulation of autophagy in the adipose tissue. the studies in obese-diabetic subjects undergoing improved metabolic control following calorie restriction suggest that autophagy and inflammation are regulated independently.
1784,cell survival during complete nutrient deprivation depends on lipid droplet-fueled β-oxidation of fatty acids.,cells exposed to stress of different origins synthesize triacylglycerols and generate lipid droplets (ld)  but the physiological relevance of this response is uncertain. using complete nutrient deprivation of cells in culture as a simple model of stress  we have addressed whether ld biogenesis has a protective role in cells committed to die. complete nutrient deprivation induced the biogenesis of ld in human ln18 glioblastoma and hela cells and also in cho and rat primary astrocytes. in all cell types  death was associated with ld depletion and was accelerated by blocking ld biogenesis after pharmacological inhibition of group iva phospholipase a2 (cpla2α) or down-regulation of ceramide kinase. nutrient deprivation also induced β-oxidation of fatty acids that was sensitive to cpla2α inhibition  and cell survival in these conditions became strictly dependent on fatty acid catabolism. these results show that  during nutrient deprivation  cell viability is sustained by β-oxidation of fatty acids that requires biogenesis and mobilization of ld.
1786,cellular nucleic acid binding protein suppresses tumor cell metastasis and induces tumor cell death by downregulating heterogeneous ribonucleoprotein k in fibrosarcoma cells.,background cellular nucleic acid binding protein (cnbp) has been implicated in vertebrate craniofacial development and in myotonic dystrophy type 2 (dm2) and sporadic inclusion body myositis (sibm) human diseases by controlling cell proliferation and survival to mediate neural crest expansion. cnbp has been found to bind single-stranded nucleic acid and promote rearrangements of nucleic acid secondary structure in an atp-independent manner  acting as a nucleic acid chaperone. methods a variety of methods were used  including cell viability assays  wound-scratch assays  chemotaxis assays  invasion assays  circular dichroic (cd) spectroscopy  nmr spectroscopy  chromatin immunoprecipitation  expression and purification of recombinant human cnbp  electrophoretic mobility shift assay (emsa)  surface plasmon resonance (spr)  fluorescence resonance energy transfer (fret) analyses  luciferase reporter assay  western blotting  and isothermal titration calorimetry (itc). results up-regulation of cnbp induced human fibrosarcoma cell death and suppressed fibrosarcoma cell motility and invasiveness. it was found that cnbp transcriptionally down-regulated the expression of heterogeneous ribonucleoprotein k (hnrnp k) through its conversion of a g-rich sequence into g-quadruplex in the promoter of hnrnp k. g-quadruplex stabilizing ligand tetra-(n-methyl-4-pyridyl) porphyrin (tmpyp4) could interact with and stabilize the g-quadruplex  resulting in downregulation of hnrnp k transcription. conclusions cnbp overexpression caused increase of cell death and suppression of cell metastasis through its induction of g-quadruplex formation in the promoter of hnrnp k resulting in hnrnp k down-regulation. general significance the present result provided a new solution for controlling hnrnp k expression  which should shed light on new anticancer drug design and development.
1788,a primate virus generates transformed human cells by fusion,amodel that explains both the origin and sporadic nature of cancer argues that cancer cells are a chance result of events that cause genomic and epigenetic variability. the prevailing view is that these events are mutations that affect chromosome segregation or stability. however  genomic and epigenetic variability is also triggered by cell fusion  which is often caused by viruses. yet  cells fused by viruses are considered harmless because they die. we provide evidence that a primate virus uses both viral and exosomal proteins involved in cell fusion to produce transformed proliferating human cells. although normal cells indeed fail to proliferate after fusion  expression of an oncogene or a mutated tumor suppressor p53 in just one of the fusion partners is sufficient to produce heterogeneous progeny. we also show that this virus can produce viable oncogenically transformed cells by fusing cells that are otherwise destined to die. therefore  we argue that viruses can contribute to carcinogenesis by fusing cells.
1790,a research agenda for public health workforce development.,in the past decades  public health research has focused on categorical rather than cross-cutting or systems issues. little research has been carried out on the infrastructure required to support public health programs. this article describes the results of an interactive process to develop a research agenda for public health workforce development to inform all those with stakes in the public health system. this research is defined as a multidisciplinary field of inquiry  both basic and applied  that examines the workforce in terms of costs  quality  accessibility  delivery  organization  financing  and outcomes of public health services to increase knowledge and understanding of the relationships among workforce and structure  processes  and effects of public health services. a logic model and five priority research areas resulted from meetings of expert panels during 2000 to 2003. innovative public and private partnerships will be required to advance cross-cutting and systems-focused research.
1792,oxymetholone therapy of fanconi anemia suppresses osteopontin transcription and induces hematopoietic stem cell cycling,androgens are widely used for treating fanconi anemia (fa) and other human bone marrow failure syndromes  but their mode of action remains incompletely understood. aged fancd2(-/-) mice were used to assess the therapeutic efficacy of oxymetholone (oxm) and its mechanism of action. eighteen-month-old fancd2(-/-) mice recapitulated key human fa phenotypes  including reduced bone marrow cellularity  red cell macrocytosis  and peripheral pancytopenia. as in humans  chronic oxm treatment significantly improved these hematological parameters and stimulated the proliferation of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells. rna-seq analysis implicated downregulation of osteopontin as an important potential mechanism for the drug's action. consistent with the increased stem cell proliferation  competitive repopulation assays demonstrated that chronic oxm therapy eventually resulted in stem cell exhaustion. these results expand our knowledge of the regulation of hematopoietic stem cell proliferation and have direct clinical implications for the treatment of bone marrow failure.
1794,fasting activation of agrp neurons requires nmda receptors and involves spinogenesis and increased excitatory tone,agrp neuron activity drives feeding and weight gain whereas that of nearby pomc neurons does the opposite. however  the role of excitatory glutamatergic input in controlling these neurons is unknown. to address this question  we generated mice lacking nmda receptors (nmdars) on either agrp or pomc neurons. deletion of nmdars from agrp neurons markedly reduced weight  body fat and food intake whereas deletion from pomc neurons had no effect. activation of agrp neurons by fasting  as assessed by c-fos  agrp and npy mrna expression  ampa receptor-mediated epscs  depolarization and firing rates  required nmdars. furthermore  agrp but not pomc neurons have dendritic spines and increased glutamatergic input onto agrp neurons caused by fasting was paralleled by an increase in spines  suggesting fasting induced synaptogenesis and spinogenesis. thus glutamatergic synaptic transmission and its modulation by nmdars play key roles in controlling agrp neurons and determining the cellular and behavioral response to fasting.
1796,origin of nitrite and nitrate in nasal and exhaled breath condensate and relation to nitric oxide formation.,background raised concentrations of nitrate and nitrite have been found in exhaled breath condensate (ebc) in airway disease  and it has been postulated that this reflects increased nitric oxide (no) metabolism. however  the chemical and anatomical origin of nitrate and nitrite in the airways has not yet been sufficiently studied. methods the fraction of exhaled no at an exhalation flow rate of 50 ml/s (fe(no)) and nitrite and nitrate in ebc  nasal condensate  and saliva were measured in 17 tracheostomised and 15 non-tracheostomised subjects  all of whom were non-smokers without respiratory disease. tracheal and oral samples were taken from the tracheostomised subjects and nasal (during velum closure) and oral samples from the non-tracheostomised subjects. measurements were performed before and after sodium nitrate ingestion (10 mg/kg) and use of antibacterial mouthwash (chlorhexidine 0.2%). results in tracheostomised subjects oral fe(no) increased by 90% (p<0.01) while tracheal fe(no) was not affected 60 minutes after nitrate ingestion. oral ebc nitrite levels were increased 23-fold at 60 minutes (p<0.001) whereas the nitrite levels in tracheal ebc showed only a minor increase (fourfold  p<0.05). nitrate was increased the same amount in oral and tracheal ebc at 60 minutes (2.5-fold  p<0.05). in non-tracheostomised subjects oral fe(no) and ebc nitrite increased after nitrate ingestion and after chlorhexidine mouthwash they approached baseline levels again (p<0.001). nasal no  nitrate  and nitrite were not affected by nitrate intake or mouthwash. at baseline  mouthwash with deionised water did not affect nitrite in oral ebc or saliva  whereas significant reductions were seen after antibacterial mouthwash (p<0.05 and p<0.001  respectively). conclusions besides the salivary glands  plasma nitrate is taken up by the lower airways but not the nasal airways. nitrate levels in ebc are thus influenced by dietary intake. nitrate is reduced to nitrite by bacterial activity which takes place primarily in the oropharyngeal tract of healthy subjects. only oropharyngeal nitrite seems to contribute to exhaled no in non-inflamed airways  and there is also a substantial contribution of nitrite from the oropharyngeal tract during standard collection of ebc.
1798,evidence of a pluripotent human embryonic stem cell line derived from a cloned blastocyst.,somatic cell nuclear transfer (scnt) technology has recently been used to generate animals with a common genetic composition. in this study  we report the derivation of a pluripotent embryonic stem (es) cell line (scnt-hes-1) from a cloned human blastocyst. the scnt-hes-1 cells displayed typical es cell morphology and cell surface markers and were capable of differentiating into embryoid bodies in vitro and of forming teratomas in vivo containing cell derivatives from all three embryonic germ layers in severe combined immunodeficient mice. after continuous proliferation for more than 70 passages  scnt-hes-1 cells maintained normal karyotypes and were genetically identical to the somatic nuclear donor cells. although we cannot completely exclude the possibility that the cells had a parthenogenetic origin  imprinting analyses support a scnt origin of the derived human es cells.
1800,the actions of synaptically released zinc at hippocampal mossy fiber synapses,zn2+ is present at high concentrations in the synaptic vesicles of hippocampal mossy fibers. we have used zn2+ chelators and the mocha mutant mouse to address the physiological role of zn2+ in this pathway. zn2+ is not involved in the unique presynaptic plasticities observed at mossy fiber synapses but is coreleased with glutamate from these synapses  both spontaneously and with electrical stimulation  where it exerts a strong modulatory effect on the nmda receptors. zn2+ tonically occupies the high-affinity binding site of nmda receptors at mossy fiber synapses  whereas the lower affinity voltage-dependent zn2+ binding site is occupied during action potential driven-release. we conclude that zn2+ is a modulatory neurotransmitter released from mossy fiber synapses and plays an important role in shaping the nmda receptor response at these synapses.
1802,beta interferon controls west nile virus infection and pathogenesis in mice.,studies with mice lacking the common plasma membrane receptor for type i interferon (ifn-αβr(-)(/)(-)) have revealed that ifn signaling restricts tropism  dissemination  and lethality after infection with west nile virus (wnv) or several other pathogenic viruses. however  the specific functions of individual ifn subtypes remain uncertain. here  using ifn-β(-)(/)(-) mice  we defined the antiviral and immunomodulatory function of this ifn subtype in restricting viral infection. ifn-β(-)(/)(-) mice were more vulnerable to wnv infection than wild-type mice  succumbing more quickly and with greater overall mortality  although the phenotype was less severe than that of ifn-αβr(-)(/)(-) mice. the increased susceptibility of ifn-β(-)(/)(-) mice was accompanied by enhanced viral replication in different tissues. consistent with a direct role for ifn-β in control of wnv replication  viral titers in ex vivo cultures of macrophages  dendritic cells  fibroblasts  and cerebellar granule cell neurons  but not cortical neurons  from ifn-β(-)(/)(-) mice were greater than in wild-type cells. although detailed immunological analysis revealed no major deficits in the quality or quantity of wnv-specific antibodies or cd8(+) t cells  we observed an altered cd4(+) cd25(+) foxp3(+) regulatory t cell response  with greater numbers after infection. collectively  these results suggest that ifn-β controls wnv pathogenesis by restricting infection in key cell types and by modulating t cell regulatory networks.
1804,a missense lamb2 mutation causes congenital nephrotic syndrome by impairing laminin secretion.,laminin β2 is a component of laminin-521  which is an important constituent of the glomerular basement membrane (gbm). null mutations in laminin β2 (lamb2) cause pierson syndrome  a severe congenital nephrotic syndrome with ocular and neurologic defects. in contrast  patients with lamb2 missense mutations  such as r246q  can have less severe extrarenal defects but still exhibit congenital nephrotic syndrome. to investigate how such missense mutations in lamb2 cause proteinuria  we generated three transgenic lines of mice in which r246q-mutant rat laminin β2 replaced the wild-type mouse laminin β2 in the gbm. these transgenic mice developed much less severe proteinuria than their nontransgenic lamb2-deficient littermates; the level of proteinuria correlated inversely with r246q-lamb2 expression. at the onset of proteinuria  expression and localization of proteins associated with the slit diaphragm and foot processes were normal  and there were no obvious ultrastructural abnormalities. low transgene expressors developed heavy proteinuria  foot process effacement  gbm thickening  and renal failure by 3 months  but high expressors developed only mild proteinuria by 9 months. in vitro studies demonstrated that the r246q mutation results in impaired secretion of laminin. taken together  these results suggest that the r246q mutation causes nephrotic syndrome by impairing secretion of laminin-521 from podocytes into the gbm; however  increased expression of the mutant protein is able to overcome this secretion defect and improve glomerular permselectivity.
1806,the impact of open versus closed format icu admission practices on the outcome of high risk surgical patients: a cohort analysis,background in the year 2000  the organizational structure of the icu in the zaandam medical centre (zmc) changed from an open to a closed format icu. the objective of this study was to evaluate the effect of this organizational change on outcome in high risk surgical patients. methods the medical records of all consecutive high risk surgical patients admitted to the icu from 1996 to 1998 (open format) and from 2003 to 2005 (closed format)  were reviewed. high-risk patients were defined according to the identification of risk in surgical patients (iris) score. parameters studied were: mortality  morbidity  icu length of stay (los) and hospital los. results mortality of icu patients was 25.7% in the open format group and 15.8% in the closed format group (p = 0.01). morbidity decreased from 48.6% to 46.1% (p = 0.6). the average length of hospital stay was 17 days in the open format group  and 21 days in the closed format group (p = 0.03). conclusions high risk surgical patients in the icu are patients that have undergone complex and often extensive surgery. these patients are in need of specialized treatment and careful monitoring for maximum safety and optimal care. our results suggest that closed format is a more favourable setting than open format to minimize the effects of high risk surgery  and to warrant safe outcome in this patient group.
1808,cerebral cortex assembly: generating and reprogramming projection neuron diversity,the mammalian cerebral cortex is responsible for the highest levels of associative  cognitive and motor functions. in the central nervous system (cns) the cortex stands as a prime example of extreme neuronal diversity  broadly classified into excitatory projection neurons (pns) and inhibitory interneurons (ins). we review here recent progress made in understanding the strategies and mechanisms that shape pn diversity during embryogenesis  and discuss how pn classes may be maintained  postnatally  for the life of the organism. in addition  we consider the intriguing possibility that pns may be amenable to directed reprogramming of their class-specific features to allow enhanced cortical plasticity in the adult.
1810,high-performance neuroprosthetic control by an individual with tetraplegia.,background paralysis or amputation of an arm results in the loss of the ability to orient the hand and grasp  manipulate  and carry objects  functions that are essential for activities of daily living. brain-machine interfaces could provide a solution to restoring many of these lost functions. we therefore tested whether an individual with tetraplegia could rapidly achieve neurological control of a high-performance prosthetic limb using this type of an interface. methods we implanted two 96-channel intracortical microelectrodes in the motor cortex of a 52-year-old individual with tetraplegia. brain-machine-interface training was done for 13 weeks with the goal of controlling an anthropomorphic prosthetic limb with seven degrees of freedom (three-dimensional translation  three-dimensional orientation  one-dimensional grasping). the participant's ability to control the prosthetic limb was assessed with clinical measures of upper limb function. this study is registered with clinicaltrials.gov  nct01364480. findings the participant was able to move the prosthetic limb freely in the three-dimensional workspace on the second day of training. after 13 weeks  robust seven-dimensional movements were performed routinely. mean success rate on target-based reaching tasks was 91·6% (sd 4·4) versus median chance level 6·2% (95% ci 2·0-15·3). improvements were seen in completion time (decreased from a mean of 148 s [sd 60] to 112 s [6]) and path efficiency (increased from 0·30 [0·04] to 0·38 [0·02]). the participant was also able to use the prosthetic limb to do skilful and coordinated reach and grasp movements that resulted in clinically significant gains in tests of upper limb function. no adverse events were reported. interpretation with continued development of neuroprosthetic limbs  individuals with long-term paralysis could recover the natural and intuitive command signals for hand placement  orientation  and reaching  allowing them to perform activities of daily living. funding defense advanced research projects agency  national institutes of health  department of veterans affairs  and upmc rehabilitation institute.
1812,moderate effect of artemisinin-based combination therapy on transmission of plasmodium falciparum.,background. artemisinin-based combination therapy (act) reduces microscopically confirmed gametocytemia and mosquito infection. however  molecular techniques have recently revealed high prevalences of submicroscopic gametocytemia. our objective here was to determine the effect of sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (sp) monotherapy and treatment with sp plus amodiaquine (aq)  sp plus artesunate (as)  and artemether-lumefantrine (al; coartem) on submicroscopic gametocytemia and infectiousness. methods. kenyan children (n=528) 6 months-10 years of age were randomized to 4 treatment arms. gametocytemia was determined by both microscopy and pfs25 rna-based quantitative nucleic acid sequence-based amplification (pfs25 qt-nasba). transmission was determined by membrane-feeding assays. results. gametocyte prevalence  as determined by pfs25 qt-nasba  was 89.4% (219/245) at enrollment and decreased after treatment with sp plus as  sp plus aq  and al. membrane-feeding assays for a group of randomly selected children revealed that the proportion of infectious children was as much as 4-fold higher than expected when based on microscopy. act did not significantly reduce the proportion of infectious children but did reduce the proportion of infected mosquitoes. conclusions. submicroscopic gametocytemia is common after treatment and contributes considerably to mosquito infection. our findings should be interpreted in the context of transmission intensity  but the effect of act on malaria transmission appears to be moderate and restricted to the duration of gametocyte carriage and the proportion of mosquitoes that are infected by carriers.
1814,loss of dexd/h box rna helicase lgp2 manifests disparate antiviral responses.,the dexd/h box rna helicase retinoic acid-inducible gene i (rig-i) and the melanoma differentiation-associated gene 5 (mda5) are key intracellular receptors that recognize virus infection to produce type i ifn. a third helicase gene  lgp2  is homologous to rig-i and mda5 but lacks a caspase activation and recruitment domain. we generated lgp2-deficient mice and report that the loss of this gene greatly sensitizes cells to cytosolic polyinosinic/polycytidylic acid-mediated induction of type i ifn. however  negative feedback inhibition of ifn-beta transcription was found to be normal in the absence of lgp2  indicating that lgp2 is not the primary negative regulator of type i ifn production. our data further indicate that lgp2-/- mice exhibited resistance to lethal vesicular stomatitis virus infection  a virus whose replicative rna intermediates are recognized specifically by rig-i rather than by mda5 to trigger the production of type i ifn. however  mice lacking lgp2 were observed to exhibit a defect in type i ifn production in response to infection by the encephalomyocarditis virus  the replication of which activates mda5-dependent innate immune responses. collectively  our data indicate a disparate regulatory role for lgp2 in the triggering of innate immune signaling pathways following rna virus infection.
1816,a unique cell division machinery in the archaea.,in contrast to the cell division machineries of bacteria  euryarchaea  and eukaryotes  no division components have been identified in the second main archaeal phylum  crenarchaeota. here  we demonstrate that a three-gene operon  cdv  in the crenarchaeon sulfolobus acidocaldarius  forms part of a unique cell division machinery. the operon is induced at the onset of genome segregation and division  and the cdv proteins then polymerize between segregating nucleoids and persist throughout cell division  forming a successively smaller structure during constriction. the cdv operon is dramatically down-regulated after uv irradiation  indicating division inhibition in response to dna damage  reminiscent of eukaryotic checkpoint systems. the cdv genes exhibit a complementary phylogenetic range relative to ftsz-based archaeal division systems such that  in most archaeal lineages  either one or the other system is present. two of the cdv proteins  cdvb and cdvc  display homology to components of the eukaryotic escrt-iii sorting complex involved in budding of luminal vesicles and hiv-1 virion release  suggesting mechanistic similarities and a common evolutionary origin.
1818,programmed death-1–induced interleukin-10 production by monocytes impairs cd4+ t cell activation during hiv infection,viral replication and microbial translocation from the gut to the blood during hiv infection lead to hyperimmune activation  which contributes to the decline in cd4+ t cell numbers during hiv infection. programmed death-1 (pd-1) and interleukin-10 (il-10) are both upregulated during hiv infection. blocking interactions between pd-1 and programmed death ligand-1 (pd-l1) and between il-10 and il-10 receptor (il-10r) results in viral clearance and improves t cell function in animal models of chronic viral infections. here we show that high amounts of microbial products and inflammatory cytokines in the plasma of hiv-infected subjects lead to upregulation of pd-1 expression on monocytes that correlates with high plasma concentrations of il-10. triggering of pd-1 expressed on monocytes by pd-l1 expressed on various cell types induced il-10 production and led to reversible cd4+ t cell dysfunction. we describe a new function for pd-1 whereby microbial products inhibit t cell expansion and function by upregulating pd-1 levels and il-10 production by monocytes after binding of pd-1 by pd-l1.
1820,secdfyajc is not required for the maintenance of the proton motive force.,secdfyajc of escherichia coli is required for efficient export of proteins in vivo. however  the functional role of secdfyajc in protein translocation is unclear. we evaluated the postulated function of secdfyajc in the maintenance of the proton motive force. as previously reported  inner membrane vesicles (imvs) lacking secdfyajc are defective in the generation of a stable proton motive force when energized with succinate. this phenomenon is  however  not observed when nadh is used as an electron donor. moreover  the proton motive force generated in secdfyajc-depleted vesicles stimulated translocation to the same extent as seen with imvs containing secdfyajc. further analysis demonstrates that the reduced proton motive force with succinate in imvs lacking secdfyajc is due to a lower amount of the enzyme succinate dehydrogenase. the expression of this enzyme complex is repressed by growth on glucose media  the condition used to deplete secdfyajc. these results demonstrate that secdfyajc is not required for proton motive force-driven protein translocation.
1822,tissue transglutaminase is an integrin-binding adhesion coreceptor for fibronectin,the protein cross-linking enzyme tissue transglutaminase binds in vitro with high affinity to fibronectin via its 42-kd gelatin-binding domain. here we report that cell surface transglutaminase mediates adhesion and spreading of cells on the 42-kd fibronectin fragment  which lacks integrin-binding motifs. overexpression of tissue transglutaminase increases its amount on the cell surface  enhances adhesion and spreading on fibronectin and its 42-kd fragment  enlarges focal adhesions  and amplifies adhesion-dependent phosphorylation of focal adhesion kinase. these effects are specific for tissue transglutaminase and are not shared by its functional homologue  a catalytic subunit of factor xiii. adhesive function of tissue transglutaminase does not require its cross-linking activity but depends on its stable noncovalent association with integrins. transglutaminase interacts directly with multiple integrins of β1 and β3 subfamilies  but not with β2 integrins. complexes of transglutaminase with integrins are formed inside the cell during biosynthesis and accumulate on the surface and in focal adhesions. together our results demonstrate that tissue transglutaminase mediates the interaction of integrins with fibronectin  thereby acting as an integrin-associated coreceptor to promote cell adhesion and spreading.
1824,engulfment of apoptotic cells: signals for a good meal,the clearance of apoptotic cells by phagocytes is an integral component of normal life  and defects in this process can have significant implications for self tolerance and autoimmunity. recent studies have provided new insights into the engulfment process  including how phagocytes seek apoptotic cells  how they recognize and ingest these targets and how they maintain cellular homeostasis after the 'meal'. several new factors that regulate engulfment have been identified  whereas the roles of some of the older players require revision. this review focuses on these recent developments and attempts to highlight some of the important questions in this field.
1826,geovisual analytics to enhance spatial scan statistic interpretation: an analysis of u.s. cervical cancer mortality,background kulldorff's spatial scan statistic and its software implementation - satscan - are widely used for detecting and evaluating geographic clusters. however  two issues make using the method and interpreting its results non-trivial: (1) the method lacks cartographic support for understanding the clusters in geographic context and (2) results from the method are sensitive to parameter choices related to cluster scaling (abbreviated as scaling parameters)  but the system provides no direct support for making these choices. we employ both established and novel geovisual analytics methods to address these issues and to enhance the interpretation of satscan results. we demonstrate our geovisual analytics approach in a case study analysis of cervical cancer mortality in the u.s.   results we address the first issue by providing an interactive visual interface to support the interpretation of satscan results. our research to address the second issue prompted a broader discussion about the sensitivity of satscan results to parameter choices. sensitivity has two components: (1) the method can identify clusters that  while being statistically significant  have heterogeneous contents comprised of both high-risk and low-risk locations and (2) the method can identify clusters that are unstable in location and size as the spatial scan scaling parameter is varied. to investigate cluster result stability  we conducted multiple satscan runs with systematically selected parameters. the results  when scanning a large spatial dataset (e.g.  u.s. data aggregated by county)  demonstrate that no single spatial scan scaling value is known to be optimal to identify clusters that exist at different scales; instead  multiple scans that vary the parameters are necessary. we introduce a novel method of measuring and visualizing reliability that facilitates identification of homogeneous clusters that are stable across analysis scales. finally  we propose a logical approach to proceed through the analysis of satscan results. conclusion the geovisual analytics approach described in this manuscript facilitates the interpretation of spatial cluster detection methods by providing cartographic representation of satscan results and by providing visualization methods and tools that support selection of satscan parameters. our methods distinguish between heterogeneous and homogeneous clusters and assess the stability of clusters across analytic scales. method we analyzed the cervical cancer mortality data for the united states aggregated by county between 2000 and 2004. we ran satscan on the dataset fifty times with different parameter choices. our geovisual analytics approach couples satscan with our visual analytic platform  allowing users to interactively explore and compare satscan results produced by different parameter choices. the standardized mortality ratio and reliability scores are visualized for all the counties to identify stable  homogeneous clusters. we evaluated our analysis result by comparing it to that produced by other independent techniques including the empirical bayes smoothing and kafadar spatial smoother methods. the geovisual analytics approach introduced here is developed and implemented in our java-based visual inquiry toolkit.
1828,vasodilator responses of coronary resistance arteries of exercise-trained pigs.,background the purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that vasodilator responses of porcine coronary resistance arteries are increased by exercise training. methods and results yucatan miniature swine were randomly divided into groups of exercise-trained (et) and sedentary (sed) control pigs. et pigs were placed on a progressive treadmill training program lasting 16 to 20 weeks  and sed pigs remained inactive during the same time period. coronary resistance arteries 64 to 157 microns in diameter were isolated for in vitro evaluation of relaxation responses to the endothelium-independent dilators sodium nitroprusside (1 x 10(-10) to 1 x 10(-4) mol/l) and adenosine (1 x 10(-10) to 1 x 10(-5) mol/l) and to bradykinin (1 x 10(-13) to 3 x 10(-7) mol/l)  an endothelium-dependent agent. relaxation responses to adenosine and sodium nitroprusside were not altered by exercise training. endothelium-dependent relaxation to bradykinin was enhanced in coronary resistance arteries from et pigs (ic50: et  0.07 +/- 0.02 nmol/l; sed  1.59 +/- 0.09 nmol/l). to determine whether prostanoids and/or the nitric oxide synthase pathway were involved in the et-induced changes in bradykinin-induced vasodilation  responses to bradykinin were examined in coronary resistance arteries from both et and sed pigs in the presence of indomethacin and in the presence of nitro-monomethyl l-arginine (l-nmma). both indomethacin and l-nmma produced significant inhibition of the bradykinin-induced relaxation in vessels from both groups. despite decreased bradykinin-induced relaxation after indomethacin  bradykinin-induced vasodilation was still enhanced in vessels from the et group. l-nmma caused greater inhibition of the bradykinin-induced relaxation in coronary resistance arteries from et pigs relative to arteries from sed pigs and eliminated the training-induced enhancement of the bradykinin responses. conclusions these results suggest that exercise training enhances bradykinin-induced vasodilation through increased endothelium-derived relaxing factor/nitric oxide production by the l-arginine/nitric oxide synthase pathway.
1830,four prognostic groups predict long-term survival from prostate cancer following radiotherapy alone on radiation therapy oncology group clinical trials.,purpose gleason score (gs)  t stage  and pathologic lymph node status have been described as major independent predictors of death due to prostate cancer in men treated with external beam radiotherapy (xrt). in this analysis we combine these three factors to define prognostic subgroups that correlate with disease-specific survival (dss) death from prostate cancer. methods and materials men entered on one of four radiation therapy oncology group (rtog) phase iii randomized trials between 1975 and 1992  for clinically localized prostate cancer (cap) (n = 1557)  were selected for this analysis. patients were included if: 1) they were evaluable  and eligible for the trial; 2) they received no hormonal therapy with their initial treatment; and 3) follow-up was available. for this study a dss event was declared if: 1) death was certified as due to cap; 2) death was due to complications of treatment; or 3) death was from unknown causes with active malignancy. the median follow-up for patients treated on early and late rtog studies exceeded 11 and 6 years respectively. subgroups were identified based on their pretreatment gs  t-stage  and lymph node such that patients with similar risk of dying from prostate cancer were combined. results by combining patients with similar dss  four subgroups were identified. risk group 1 patients had a gs = 2-6  and t1-2nx; group 2: gs = 2-6  t3nx; or gs = 2-6  n+  or gs = 7  t1-2nx; group 3: t3nx  gs = 7; or n+  gs = 7  or t1-2nx  gs = 8-10; and group 4 patients were t3nx  gs = 8-10  or n+  gs = 8-10. the 5-  10-  and 15-year dss was 96%  86%  and 72%; 94%  75%  and 61%; 83%  62%  and 39%; and 64%  34%  and 27% for groups 1 through 4  respectively. conclusions recognition of these four risk groups provides a basis for estimating the long-term dss for men treated with xrt alone and should facilitate the design of future prospective randomized trials.
1832,the dna damage response during mitosis.,cells are equipped with a cell-intrinsic signaling network called the dna damage response (ddr). this signaling network recognizes dna lesions and initiates various downstream pathways to coordinate a cell cycle arrest with the repair of the damaged dna. alternatively  the ddr can mediate clearance of affected cells that are beyond repair through apoptosis or senescence. the ddr can be activated in response to dna damage throughout the cell cycle  although the extent of ddr signaling is different in each cell cycle phase. especially in response to dna double strand breaks  only a very marginal response was observed during mitosis. early on it was recognized that cells which are irradiated during mitosis continued division without repairing broken chromosomes. although these initial observations indicated diminished dna repair and lack of an acute dna damage-induced cell cycle arrest  insight into the mechanistic re-wiring of ddr signaling during mitosis was only recently provided. different mechanisms appear to be at play to inactivate specific signaling axes of the ddr network in mitosis. importantly  mitotic cells not simply inactivate the entire ddr  but appear to mark their dna damage for repair after mitotic exit. since the treatment of cancer frequently involves agents that induce dna damage as well as agents that block mitotic progression  it is clinically relevant to obtain a better understanding of how cancer cells deal with dna damage during interphase versus mitosis. in this review  the molecular details concerning ddr signaling during mitosis as well as the consequences of encountering dna damage during mitosis for cellular fate are discussed.
1834,placebo-controlled trials and active-control trials in the evaluation of new treatments. part 1: ethical and scientific issues,placebo-controlled trials are used extensively in the development of new pharmaceuticals. they are sometimes challenged as unethical in settings in which patients could be treated with an existing therapy (1-7). the issues of when placebo controls are ethically acceptable and when they are scientifically necessary are important and worthy of discussion. the ethics of placebo controls the declaration of helsinki the declaration of helsinki (8) is an international document that describes ethical principles for clinical investigation. those who contend that placebo controls are unethical whenever known effective therapy exists for a condition usually cite the following sentence in the declaration as support for that position: in any medical study  every patientincluding those of a control group  if anyshould be assured of the best proven diagnostic and therapeutic method. we believe that an interpretation of this sentence as barring placebo controls whenever an effective treatment exists is untenable. first  the requirement that all patients receive the best proven diagnostic and therapeutic method would bar not only placebo-controlled trials but also active-control and historically controlled trials. when effective treatment exists  the patient receiving the investigational treatment instead of the established therapy is clearly not getting the best proven treatment. second  it does not seem reasonable to consider as equivalent all failures to use known effective therapy. historically  concerns about placebo use have usually arisen in the context of serious illness. there is universal agreement that use of placebo or otherwise untreated controls is almost always unethical when therapy shown to improve survival or decrease serious morbidity is available. but in cases in which the treatment does not affect the patient's long-term health  an ethical imperative to use existing therapy is not plausible. can it be  for example  that because topical minoxidil or oral finasteride can grow hair  a placebo-controlled trial of a new remedy for baldness is unethical? is it really unethical to use placebos in short-term studies of drugs for allergic rhinitis  insomnia  anxiety  dermatoses  heartburn  or headaches in fully informed patients? we do not believe that there is a reasonable basis for arguing that such studies and many other placebo-controlled studies of symptom relief are unethical and that an informed patient cannot properly be asked to participate in them. third  there is good reason to doubt that the cited phrase was intended to discourage placebo-controlled trials. the phrase under discussion was not part of the original 1964 declaration but was added in 1975 to reinforce the idea that the physicianpatient relationship must be respected just as it would be in a purely therapeutic situation not involving research objectives (8). in the explanation accompanying the 1975 change  the issue of placebo-controlled trials was not even mentioned (9). the american medical association (10)  the world health organization (11)  and the council for international organizations of medical sciences (12) have rejected the position that the declaration uniformly bars placebo-controlled trials when proven therapy is available. informed consent in placebo-controlled trials patients asked to participate in a placebo-controlled trial must be informed of the existence of any effective therapy  must be able to explore the consequences of deferring such therapy with the investigator  and must provide fully informed consent. concern about whether consent to participate in trials is as informed as we would like to believe is valid  but these concerns apply as much to the patient's decision to forgo known effective treatment and risk exposure to a potentially ineffective or even harmful new agent in an active-control trial as to a decision to accept possible persistence of symptoms in a placebo-controlled trial. thus  this problem is not unique to placebo-controlled trials. for the above reasons  we conclude that placebo-controlled trials may be ethically conducted even when effective therapy exists  as long as patients will not be harmed by participation and are fully informed about their alternatives. although in many cases application of this standard will be fairly straightforward  in others it will not  and there may be debate about the consequences of deferring treatment (13). assessment of effectiveness with active-control trials clinical trials that  because of deficiencies in study design or conduct  are unlikely to provide scientifically valid and clinically meaningful results raise their own ethical concerns (12  14). the remainder of this paper will address the inability of commonly proposed alternatives to placebo-controlled trials to evaluate the effectiveness of new treatments in many medical settings. active-control equivalence trials (noninferiority trials) the ability to conduct a placebo-controlled trial ethically in a given situation does not necessarily mean that placebo-controlled trials should be carried out when effective therapy exists. patients and physicians might still prefer a trial in which every participant is given an active treatment. what remains to be examined is why placebo-controlled trials (or  more generally  trials intended to show an advantage of one treatment over another) are frequently needed to demonstrate the effectiveness of new treatments and often cannot be replaced by active-control trials showing that a new drug is equivalent or noninferior to a known effective agent. the limitations of active-control equivalence trials (acets) that are intended to show the effectiveness of a new drug have long been recognized and are well described (15-33) but are perhaps not as widely appreciated as they should be. a recent proposed international guideline on choice of control group addresses this issue in detail (33). the fundamental problem: need for assay sensitivity there are two distinct ways to show that a new therapy is effective. one can show that the new therapy is superior to a control treatment  or one can show that the new therapy is equivalent to or not worse by some defined amount than a known effective treatment. each method can be valid  but each requires entirely different inferential approaches. a well-designed study that shows superiority of a treatment to a control (placebo or active therapy) provides strong evidence of the effectiveness of the new treatment  limited only by the statistical uncertainty of the result. no information external to the trial is needed to support the conclusion of effectiveness. in contrast  a study that successfully shows equivalencethat is  little difference between a new drug and known active treatmentdoes not by itself demonstrate that the new treatment is effective. equivalence could mean that the treatments were both effective in the study  but it could also mean that both treatments were ineffective in the study. to conclude from an acet that a new treatment is effective on the basis of its similarity to the active control  one must make the critical (and untestable within the study) assumption that the active control had an effect in that particular study. in other words  one must assume that if a placebo group had been included  the placebo would have been inferior to the active control (15-33). support for this assumption must come from sources external to the trial. although it might appear reasonable to expect a known active agent to be superior to placebo in any given appropriately designed trial  experience has shown that this is not the case for many types of drugs. the ability of a study to distinguish between active and inactive treatments is termed assay sensitivity. if assay sensitivity cannot be assumed  then even if the new and standard treatments appear virtually identical and the confidence interval for their comparison is exquisitely narrow  the study cannot demonstrate effectiveness of the new drug. (note that in practice  acets are not designed simply to show lack of a statistically significant difference between treatments. rather  such trials are designed to show noninferioritythat the new treatment is not inferior to the control by more than a specified margin. this approach is described in the appendix.) the best evidence that an active drug would have an effect superior to that of placebo in a given study would be a series of trials of similar design in which the active drug has reliably outperformed placebo. the acet thus requires information external to the trial (the information about past placebo-controlled studies of the active control) to interpret the results. in this respect  an acet is similar to a historically controlled trial. in some settings  such as highly responsive cancers  most infectious diseases  and some cardiovascular conditions  such external information is available and acets can and do provide a valid and reliable basis for evaluating new treatments. in many cases  however  the historically based assumption of assay sensitivity cannot be made; for many types of effective drugs  studies of apparently adequate size and design do not regularly distinguish drugs from placebo (16-18  25  34). more than 20 years ago  lasagna (19) described this difficulty particularly well (reflecting long recognition of the problem among analgesiologists): a comparison between new drug and standard is convincing only when the new remedy is superior to standard treatment. if it is inferior  or even indistinguishable from a standard remedy  the results are not readily interpretable. in the absence of placebo controls  one does not know if the inferior new medicine has any efficacy at all  and equivalent performance may reflect simply a patient population that cannot distinguish between two active treatments that differ considerably from each other  or between active drug and placebo. certain clinical conditions  such as seri
1836,immune cells contribute to the maintenance of neurogenesis and spatial learning abilities in adulthood,neurogenesis is known to take place in the adult brain. this work identifies t lymphocytes and microglia as being important to the maintenance of hippocampal neurogenesis and spatial learning abilities in adulthood. hippocampal neurogenesis induced by an enriched environment was associated with the recruitment of t cells and the activation of microglia. in immune-deficient mice  hippocampal neurogenesis was markedly impaired and could not be enhanced by environmental enrichment  but was restored and boosted by t cells recognizing a specific cns antigen. cns-specific t cells were also found to be required for spatial learning and memory and for the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor in the dentate gyrus  implying that a common immune-associated mechanism underlies different aspects of hippocampal plasticity and cell renewal in the adult brain.
1838,an efficient nonviral method to generate integration-free human-induced pluripotent stem cells from cord blood and peripheral blood cells.,the generation of induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs) provides the opportunity to use patient-specific somatic cells  which are a valuable source for disease modeling and drug discovery. to promote research involving these cells  it is important to make ipscs from easily accessible and less invasive tissues  like blood. we have recently reported the efficient generation of human ipscs from adult fibroblasts using a combination of plasmids encoding oct3/4  sox2  klf4  l-myc  lin28  and shrna for tp53. we herein report a modified protocol enabling efficient ipsc induction from cd34+ cord blood cells and from peripheral blood isolated from healthy donors using these plasmid vectors. the original plasmid mixture could induce ipscs; however  the efficiency was low. the addition of ebna1  an essential factor for episomal amplification of the vectors  by an extra plasmid greatly increased the efficiency of ipsc induction  especially when the induction was performed from αβt cells. this improvement enabled the establishment of blood-derived ipscs from seven healthy donors ranging in age from their 20s to their 60s. this induction method will be useful for the derivation of patient-specific integration-free ipscs and would also be applicable to the generation of clinical-grade ipscs in the future.
1840,the faseb journal express article 10.1096/fj.00-0815fje. published online june 27  2001. essential role for cholesterol in synaptic plasticity and neuronal degeneration,specific aimsour previous studies implied the relation between lipid metabolism and amyloid beta protein (aβ) as ‘a missing link in alzheimer’s puzzle’ [faseb j.  vol. 12  p. 1097 (1998)]. in the present study  we evaluated the role of cholesterol in synaptic plasticity and neuronal degeneration by a combination of adult rat hippocampal slice technology  a well-established procedure for limited cholesterol efflux  lipid metabolic labeling  extracellular recording of ca1 field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fepsps)  and immunofluorescence. principal findings1. increased cholesterol efflux impairs short- and long-term synaptic plasticitysynaptic plasticity is a fundamental feature of the central nervous system (cns) that allows synapses to ‘remember’ previous activity and express plastic changes to fine-tune current synaptic action. in this study  we asked whether an increased cholesterol efflux induced ex vivo by normal human csf-hdl3 and methyl-β-cyclodextrin (mβcd) (a natural and model cholesterol ac...
1842,fibroblast heterogeneity in the cancer wound,fibroblasts regulate the structure and function of healthy tissues  participate transiently in tissue repair after acute inflammation  and assume an aberrant stimulatory role during chronic inflammatory states including cancer. such cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs) modulate the tumor microenvironment and influence the behavior of neoplastic cells in either a tumor-promoting or tumor-inhibiting manner. these pleiotropic functions highlight the inherent plasticity of fibroblasts and may provide new avenues to understand and therapeutically intervene in malignancies. we discuss the emerging themes of caf biology in the context of tumorigenesis and therapy.
1844,central role of th2/tc2 lymphocytes in pattern ii multiple sclerosis lesions,objective multiple sclerosis (ms) is a disease of the central nervous system with marked heterogeneity in several aspects including pathological processes. based on infiltrating immune cells  deposition of humoral factors and loss of oligodendrocytes and/or myelin proteins  four lesion patterns have been described. pattern ii is characterized by antibody and complement deposition in addition to t-cell infiltration. ms is considered a t-cell-mediated disease  but until now the study of pathogenic t cells has encountered major challenges  most importantly the limited access of brain-infiltrating t cells. our objective was to identify  isolate  and characterize brain-infiltrating clonally expanded t cells in pattern ii ms lesions. methods we used next-generation sequencing to identify clonally expanded t cells in demyelinating pattern ii brain autopsy lesions  subsequently isolated these as t-cell clones from autologous cerebrospinal fluid and functionally characterized them. results we identified clonally expanded cd8(+) but also cd4(+) t cells in demyelinating pattern ii lesions and for the first time were able to isolate these as live t-cell clones. the functional characterization shows that t cells releasing th2 cytokines and able to provide b cell help dominate the t-cell infiltrate in pattern ii brain lesions. interpretation our data provide the first functional evidence for a putative role of th2/tc2 cells in pattern ii ms supporting the existence of this pathogenic phenotype and questioning the protective role that is generally ascribed to th2 cells. our observations are important to consider for future treatments of pattern ii ms patients.
1846,wk175  a novel antitumor agent  decreases the intracellular nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide concentration and induces the apoptotic cascade in human leukemia cells.,we recently developed a class of novel antitumor agents that elicit a potent growth-inhibitory response in many tumor cells cultured in vitro. wk175  a member of this class  was chosen as a model compound that showed strong in vitro efficacy. wk175 interferes with the intracellular steady-state level of nad(+)  resulting in a decreased cellular nad(+) concentration. we found that wk175 induces apoptotic cell death without any dna-damaging effect. the apoptotic death signaling pathway initiated by wk175 was examined in detail: mitochondrial membrane potential  cytochrome c release  caspase 3 activation  caspase 3 and poly(adp-ribose) polymerase cleavage  and the appearance of a sub-g(1) cell cycle population were determined in time course studies in thp-1 (a human monocytic leukemia cell line) cells. we found activation of this cascade after 24 h of treatment with 10 nm wk175. induction of apoptosis was prevented by bongkrekic acid  z-asp-glu-val-asp-fluoromethylketone  and z-leu-glu-his-asp-fluoromethylketone  inhibitors of the mitochondrial permeability transition and of caspase 3 and 9  respectively  but not by ac-tyr-val-ala-asp-cho  a specific caspase 1 inhibitor  suggesting the involvement of the permeability transition pore  caspase 3  and caspase 9 in the wk175-induced apoptotic cascade. these results imply that decreased nad(+) concentration initiates the apoptotic cascade  resulting in the antitumor effect of wk175.
1848,mapping meiotic single-strand dna reveals a new landscape of dna double-strand breaks in saccharomyces cerevisiae,dna double-strand breaks (dsbs)  which are formed by the spo11 protein  initiate meiotic recombination. previous dsb-mapping studies have used rad50s or sae2δ mutants  which are defective in break processing  to accumulate spo11-linked dsbs  and report large (≥ 50 kb) “dsb-hot” regions that are separated by “dsb-cold” domains of similar size. substantial recombination occurs in some dsb-cold regions  suggesting that dsb patterns are not normal in rad50s or sae2δ mutants. we therefore developed a novel method to map genome-wide  single-strand dna (ssdna)–associated dsbs that accumulate in processing-capable  repair-defective dmc1δ and dmc1δ rad51δ mutants. dsbs were observed at known hot spots  but also in most previously identified “dsb-cold” regions  including near centromeres and telomeres. although approximately 40% of the genome is dsb-cold in rad50s mutants  analysis of meiotic ssdna from dmc1δ shows that most of these regions have substantial dsb activity. southern blot assays of dsbs in selected regions in dmc1δ  rad50s  and wild-type cells confirm these findings. thus  dsbs are distributed much more uniformly than was previously believed. comparisons of dsb signals in dmc1  dmc1 rad51  and dmc1 spo11 mutant strains identify dmc1 as a critical strand-exchange activity genome-wide  and confirm previous conclusions that spo11-induced lesions initiate all meiotic recombination.
1850,blockade of class ib phosphoinositide-3 kinase ameliorates obesity-induced inflammation and insulin resistance.,obesity and insulin resistance  the key features of metabolic syndrome  are closely associated with a state of chronic  low-grade inflammation characterized by abnormal macrophage infiltration into adipose tissues. although it has been reported that chemokines promote leukocyte migration by activating class ib phosphoinositide-3 kinase (pi3kγ) in inflammatory states  little is known about the role of pi3kγ in obesity-induced macrophage infiltration into tissues  systemic inflammation  and the development of insulin resistance. in the present study  we used murine models of both diet-induced and genetically induced obesity to examine the role of pi3kγ in the accumulation of tissue macrophages and the development of obesity-induced insulin resistance. mice lacking p110γ (pik3cg(-/-))  the catalytic subunit of pi3kγ  exhibited improved systemic insulin sensitivity with enhanced insulin signaling in the tissues of obese animals. in adipose tissues and livers of obese pik3cg(-/-) mice  the numbers of infiltrated proinflammatory macrophages were markedly reduced  leading to suppression of inflammatory reactions in these tissues. furthermore  bone marrow-specific deletion and pharmacological blockade of pi3kγ also ameliorated obesity-induced macrophage infiltration and insulin resistance. these data suggest that pi3kγ plays a crucial role in the development of both obesity-induced inflammation and systemic insulin resistance and that pi3kγ can be a therapeutic target for type 2 diabetes.
1852,the carboxyl terminus of human cytomegalovirus-encoded 7 transmembrane receptor us28 camouflages agonism by mediating constitutive endocytosis.,us28 is one of four 7 transmembrane (7tm) chemokine receptors encoded by human cytomegalovirus and has been shown to both signal and endocytose in a ligand-independent  constitutively active manner. here we show that the constitutive activity and constitutive endocytosis properties of us28 are separable entities in this viral chemokine receptor. we generated chimeric and mutant us28 proteins that were altered in either their constitutive endocytic (us28 delta 300  us28 delta 317  us28-nk1-ctail  and us28-orf74-ctail) or signaling properties (us28r129a). by using this series of mutants  we show that the cytoplasmic tail domain of us28 per se regulates receptor endocytosis  independent of the signaling ability of the core domain of us28. the constitutive endocytic property of the us28 c-tail was transposable to other 7tm receptors  the herpes virus 8-encoded orf74 and the tachykinin nk1 receptor (orf74-us28-ctail and nk1-us28-ctail). deletion of the us28 c terminus resulted in reduced constitutive endocytosis and consequently enhanced signaling capacity of all receptors tested as assessed by inositol phosphate turnover  nf-kappa b  and camp-responsive element-binding protein transcription assays. we further show that the constitutive endocytic property of us28 affects the action of its chemokine ligand fractalkine/cx3cl1 and show that in the absence of the us28 c terminus  fractalkine/cx3cl1 acts as an agonist on us28. this demonstrates for the first time that the endocytic properties of a 7tm receptor can camouflage the agonist properties of a ligand.
1854,table of contents,the morphogenesis of the c. elegans embryo is largely controlled by the development of the epidermis  also known as the hypodermis  a single epithelial layer that surrounds the animal. morphogenesis of the epidermis involves cell-cell interactions with internal tissues  such as the developing nervous system and musculature. genetic analysis of mutants with aberrant epidermal morphology has defined multiple steps in epidermal morphogenesis. in the wild type  epidermal cells are generated on the dorsal side of the embryo among the progeny of four early embryonic blastomeres. specification of epidermal fate is regulated by a hierarchy of transcription factors. after specification  dorsal epidermal cells rearrange  a process known as dorsal intercalation. most epidermal cells fuse to generate multinucleate syncytia. the dorsally located epidermal sheet undergoes epiboly to enclose the rest of the embryo in a process known as ventral enclosure; this movement requires both an intact epidermal layer and substrate neuroblasts. at least three distinct types of cellular behavior underlie the enclosure of different regions of the epidermis. following enclosure  the epidermis elongates  a process driven by coordinated cell shape changes. epidermal actin microfilaments  microtubules  and intermediate filaments all play roles in elongation  as do body wall muscles. the final shape of the epidermis is maintained by the collagenous exoskeleton  secreted by the apical surface of the epidermis.
1856,nationwide trends in incidence  treatment and survival of colorectal cancer patients with synchronous metastases,the aim of this study was to determine trends in incidence  treatment and survival of colorectal cancer (crc) patients with synchronous metastases (stage iv) in the netherlands. this nationwide population-based study included 160 278 patients diagnosed with crc between 1996 and 2011. we evaluated changes in stage distribution  location of synchronous metastases and treatment in four consecutive periods  using chi square tests for trend. median survival in months was determined  using kaplan–meier analysis. the proportion of stage iv crc patients (n = 33 421) increased from 19 % (1996–1999) to 23 % (2008–2011  p < 0.001). this was predominantly due to a major increase in the incidence of lung metastases (1.7–5.0 % of all crc patients). during the study period  the primary tumor was resected less often in stage iv patients (65–46 %) and the use of systemic treatment has increased (29–60 %). also an increase in metastasectomy was found in patients with one metastatic site  especially in patients with liver-only disease (5–18 %  p < 0.001). median survival of all stage iv crc patients increased from 7 to 12 months. especially in patients with metastases confined to the liver or lungs this improvement in survival was apparent (9–16 and 12–24 months respectively  both p < 0.001). in the last two decades  more lung metastases were detected and an increasing proportion of stage iv crc patients was treated with systemic therapy and/or metastasectomy. survival of patients has significantly improved. however  the prognosis of stage iv patients becomes increasingly diverse.
1858,nanotoxicology: an emerging discipline evolving from studies of ultrafine particles,although humans have been exposed to airborne nanosized particles (nsps; < 100 nm) throughout their evolutionary stages  such exposure has increased dramatically over the last century due to anthropogenic sources. the rapidly developing field of nanotechnology is likely to become yet another source through inhalation  ingestion  skin uptake  and injection of engineered nanomaterials. information about safety and potential hazards is urgently needed. results of older biokinetic studies with nsps and newer epidemiologic and toxicologic studies with airborne ultrafine particles can be viewed as the basis for the expanding field of nanotoxicology  which can be defined as safety evaluation of engineered nanostructures and nanodevices. collectively  some emerging concepts of nanotoxicology can be identified from the results of these studies. when inhaled  specific sizes of nsps are efficiently deposited by diffusional mechanisms in all regions of the respiratory tract. the small size facilitates uptake into cells and transcytosis across epithelial and endothelial cells into the blood and lymph circulation to reach potentially sensitive target sites such as bone marrow  lymph nodes  spleen  and heart. access to the central nervous system and ganglia via translocation along axons and dendrites of neurons has also been observed. nsps penetrating the skin distribute via uptake into lymphatic channels. endocytosis and biokinetics are largely dependent on nsp surface chemistry (coating) and in vivo surface modifications. the greater surface area per mass compared with larger-sized particles of the same chemistry renders nsps more active biologically. this activity includes a potential for inflammatory and pro-oxidant  but also antioxidant  activity  which can explain early findings showing mixed results in terms of toxicity of nsps to environmentally relevant species. evidence of mitochondrial distribution and oxidative stress response after nsp endocytosis points to a need for basic research on their interactions with subcellular structures. additional considerations for assessing safety of engineered nsps include careful selections of appropriate and relevant doses/concentrations  the likelihood of increased effects in a compromised organism  and also the benefits of possible desirable effects. an interdisciplinary team approach (e.g.  toxicology  materials science  medicine  molecular biology  and bioinformatics  to name a few) is mandatory for nanotoxicology research to arrive at an appropriate risk assessment.
1860,the rho gefs larg and gef-h1 regulate the mechanical response to force on integrins,how individual cells respond to mechanical forces is of considerable interest to biologists as force affects many aspects of cell behaviour. the application of force on integrins triggers cytoskeletal rearrangements and growth of the associated adhesion complex  resulting in increased cellular stiffness  also known as reinforcement. although rhoa has been shown to play a role during reinforcement  the molecular mechanisms that regulate its activity are unknown. by combining biochemical and biophysical approaches  we identified two guanine nucleotide exchange factors (gefs)  larg and gef-h1  as key molecules that regulate the cellular adaptation to force. we show that stimulation of integrins with tensional force triggers activation of these two gefs and their recruitment to adhesion complexes. surprisingly  activation of larg and gef-h1 involves distinct signalling pathways. our results reveal that larg is activated by the src family tyrosine kinase fyn  whereas gef-h1 catalytic activity is enhanced by erk downstream of a signalling cascade that includes fak and ras.
1862,pioneer transcription factors target partial dna motifs on nucleosomes to initiate reprogramming,pioneer transcription factors (tfs) access silent chromatin and initiate cell-fate changes  using diverse types of dna binding domains (dbds). foxa  the paradigm pioneer tf  has a winged helix dbd that resembles linker histone and thereby binds its target sites on nucleosomes and in compacted chromatin. herein  we compare the nucleosome and chromatin targeting activities of oct4 (pou dbd)  sox2 (hmg box dbd)  klf4 (zinc finger dbd)  and c-myc (bhlh dbd)  which together reprogram somatic cells to pluripotency. purified oct4  sox2  and klf4 proteins can bind nucleosomes in vitro  and in vivo they preferentially target silent sites enriched for nucleosomes. pioneer activity relates simply to the ability of a given dbd to target partial motifs displayed on the nucleosome surface. such partial motif recognition can occur by coordinate binding between factors. our findings provide insight into how pioneer factors can target naive chromatin sites.
1864,sascif: an extension of core crystallographic information file for sas,data acquisition packages developed at different small angle scattering facilities use different formats both for raw and processed data storage. to facilitate the data exchange between laboratories  a consensus in the small angle scattering community has been reached on an ascii format for one-dimensional data which includes a self-describing header containing relevant information about the sample and instrumental conditions followed by raw or reduced data in a tabular form. this format called sascif was implemented as an extension of core cif (crystallographic information file) dictionary.
1866,thrombopoietin-induced polyploidization of bone marrow megakaryocytes is due to a unique regulatory mechanism in late mitosis ,megakaryocytes undergo a unique differentiation program  becoming polyploid through repeated cycles of dna synthesis without concomitant cell division. however  the mechanism underlying this polyploidization remains totally unknown. it has been postulated that polyploidization is due to a skipping of mitosis after each round of dna replication. we carried out immunohistochemical studies on mouse bone marrow megakaryocytes during thrombopoietin- induced polyploidization and found that during this process megakaryocytes indeed enter mitosis and progress through normal prophase  prometaphase  metaphase  and up to anaphase a  but not to anaphase b  telophase  or cytokinesis. it was clearly observed that multiple spindle poles were formed as the polyploid megakaryocytes entered mitosis; the nuclear membrane broke down during prophase; the sister chromatids were aligned on a multifaced plate  and the centrosomes were symmetrically located on either side of each face of the plate at metaphase; and a set of sister chromatids moved into the multiple centrosomes during anaphase a. we further noted that the pair of spindle poles in anaphase were located in close proximity to each other  probably because of the lack of outward movement of spindle poles during anaphase b. thus  the reassembling nuclear envelope may enclose all the sister chromatids in a single nucleus at anaphase and then skip telophase and cytokinesis. these observations clearly indicate that polyploidization of megakaryocytes is not simply due to a skipping of mitosis  and that the megakaryocytes must have a unique regulatory mechanism in anaphase  e.g.  factors regulating anaphase such as microtubule motor proteins might be involved in this polyploidization process.
1868,microtubule sliding activity of a kinesin-8 promotes spindle assembly and spindle length control,molecular motors play critical roles in the formation of mitotic spindles  either through controlling the stability of individual microtubules  or by crosslinking and sliding microtubule arrays. kinesin-8 motors are best known for their regulatory roles in controlling microtubule dynamics. they contain microtubule-destabilizing activities  and restrict spindle length in a wide variety of cell types and organisms. here  we report an antiparallel microtubule-sliding activity of the budding yeast kinesin-8  kip3. the in vivo importance of this sliding activity was established through the identification of complementary kip3 mutants that separate the sliding activity and microtubule-destabilizing activity. in conjunction with cin8  a kinesin-5 family member  the sliding activity of kip3 promotes bipolar spindle assembly and the maintenance of genome stability. we propose a slide-disassemble model where the sliding and destabilizing activity of kip3 balance during pre-anaphase. this facilitates normal spindle assembly. however  the destabilizing activity of kip3 dominates in late anaphase  inhibiting spindle elongation and ultimately promoting spindle disassembly.
1870,identification of epstein-barr virus nuclear antigen 1 protein domains that direct interactions at a distance between dna-bound proteins.,the ebna1 protein of epstein-barr virus (ebv) binds to and activates dna replication from the ebv latent origin of replication  orip  via a direct interaction with the two noncontiguous subelements of orip. the ebna1 molecules bound to the orip subelements interact efficiently with each other by a dna looping mechanism. we have previously mapped a region of ebna1 (termed the looping region) that is required to mediate the interaction of the ebna1 molecules bound to the orip subelements. we now demonstrate that two fragments of this region of ebna1  which consist largely of an eight amino acid repeat  can mediate homotypic interactions when transferred to another dna-binding protein. protein interactions mediated by the ebna1 looping region appear to be dependent on dna binding since these interactions were detected between dna-bound forms of the proteins only.
1872,formins: intermediates in signal-transduction cascades that affect cytoskeletal reorganization.,the control of cell growth and polarity depends on a dynamic actin cytoskeleton that has the ability to reorganize in response to developmental and environmental stimuli. in animals and fungi  formins are just one of the four major classes of poly-l-proline-containing (plp) proteins that form part of the signal-transduction cascade that leads to rearrangement of the actin cytoskeleton. analysis of the arabidopsis genome sequence indicates that  unlike animals and fungi  formins are the only class of conserved profilin-binding plp proteins in plants. moreover  plant formins show significant structural differences compared with their animal and fungal counterparts  raising the possibility that plant formins are subject to novel mechanisms of control or perform unique roles in plants.
1874,cost-effectiveness of aromatase inhibitor co-treatment for controlled ovarian stimulation.,background to compare the clinical results and the cost-effectiveness of using the aromatase inhibitor  letrozole  in conjunction with fsh and fsh alone for controlled ovarian stimulation (cos) in patients undergoing intrauterine insemination (iui) for a variety of indications. methods four hundred and thirty-two consecutive patients who underwent 872 iui cycles were included. the study population was composed of two groups. group i included 308 patients who underwent 589 iui cycles with letrozole and fsh for the following indications: anovulation (143 cycles)  male factor infertility (147 cycles)  unexplained infertility (250 cycles)  endometriosis (18 cycles) and combined indications (31 cycles). group ii included 124 patients who underwent 283 iui cycles who received fsh only for the following indications: ovarian factor infertility (82 cycles)  male factor infertility (66 cycles)  unexplained infertility (114 cycles)  endometriosis (13 cycles) and other indications (8 cycles). main outcome measures included number of mature follicles >16 mm in diameter  dose of fsh used per cycle  clinical pregnancy rate and cost-effectiveness ratio per pregnancy. results fsh dose required for ovarian stimulation was significantly lower when letrozole was used (p < 0.0001). although a significantly higher number of follicles >16 mm and endometrial thickness at the day of hcg administration (p < 0.0001) were observed in group ii  pregnancy rate per started (14.4 versus 15.9%) and per completed cycles (15.77 versus 18.07%) was the same in group i and group ii  respectively. iui cancellation rate was significantly lower with letrozole treatment (p = 0.05%). the cost per cycle was significantly lower in group i versus group ii (468.93 can dollars +/- 418.18 versus 1067.28 +/- 921.43; p < 0.0001). the cost-effectiveness ratio was 3249.42 dollars in the letrozole group and 6712.00 dollars in the fsh-only group. conclusion a letrozole-fsh combination could be an effective ovarian stimulation protocol in iui cycles. such a protocol may be more cost-effective than fsh alone because of the difference of fsh dose and cost. a randomized controlled trial is needed to further substantiate this finding.
1876,trans-ancestry mutational landscape of hepatocellular carcinoma genomes,diverse epidemiological factors are associated with hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) prevalence in different populations. however  the global landscape of the genetic changes in hcc genomes underpinning different epidemiological and ancestral backgrounds still remains uncharted. here a collection of data from 503 liver cancer genomes from different populations uncovered 30 candidate driver genes and 11 core pathway modules. furthermore  a collaboration of two large-scale cancer genome projects comparatively analyzed the trans-ancestry substitution signatures in 608 liver cancer cases and identified unique mutational signatures that predominantly contribute to asian cases. this work elucidates previously unexplored ancestry-associated mutational processes in hcc development. a combination of hotspot tert promoter mutation  tert focal amplification and viral genome integration occurs in more than 68% of cases  implicating tert as a central and ancestry-independent node of hepatocarcinogenesis. newly identified alterations in genes encoding metabolic enzymes  chromatin remodelers and a high proportion of mtor pathway activations offer potential therapeutic and diagnostic opportunities.
1878,compensatory anti-inflammatory response syndrome.,the concept of 'compensatory anti-inflammatory response syndrome' (cars) was proposed in 1997 by roger bone (1941-1997) to qualify the consequences of the counter-regulatory mechanisms initiated to limit the overzealous inflammatory process in patients with infectious (sepsis) or non-infectious systemic inflammatory response syndrome (sirs). one major consequence of cars is the modification of the immune status that could favour the enhanced susceptibility of intensive care patients to nosocomial infections. indeed  most animal 'two-hit' models illustrate an enhanced sensitivity to infection after a first insult. however  this observation is highly dependent on the experimental procedure. numerous functions of circulating leukocytes are altered in sepsis and sirs patients  as well as in animal models of sepsis or sirs. however  this is rather a reprogramming of circulating leukocytes  since there is not a global defect of the immune cells functions. furthermore  within tissues  leukocytes are rather primed or activated than immunosuppressed. thus  cars may be considered as an adapted compartmentalized response with the aim to silence some acute proinflammatory genes  and to maintain the possible expression of certain genes involved in the anti-infectious process.
1880,arginase i: a limiting factor for nitric oxide and polyamine synthesis by activated macrophages?,because arginase hydrolyzes arginine to produce ornithine and urea  it has the potential to regulate nitric oxide (no) and polyamine synthesis. we tested whether expression of the cytosolic isoform of arginase (arginase i) was limiting for no or polyamine production by activated raw 264.7 macrophage cells. raw 264.7 cells  stably transfected to overexpress arginase i or beta-galactosidase  were treated with interferon-gamma to induce type 2 no synthase or with lipopolysaccharide or 8-bromo-camp (8-brcamp) to induce ornithine decarboxylase. overexpression of arginase i had no effect on no synthesis. in contrast  cells overexpressing arginase i produced twice as much putrescine after activation than did cells expressing beta-galactosidase. cells overexpressing arginase i also produced more spermidine after treatment with 8-brcamp than did cells expressing beta-galactosidase. thus endogenous levels of arginase i are limiting for polyamine synthesis  but not for no synthesis  by activated macrophage cells. this study also demonstrates that it is possible to alter arginase i levels sufficiently to affect polyamine synthesis without affecting induced no synthesis.
1882,integrins regulate microtubule nucleating activity of centrosome through mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (mek/erk) signaling.,microtubule nucleation is an essential step in the formation of the microtubule cytoskeleton. we recently showed that androgen and src promote microtubule nucleation and γ-tubulin accumulation at the centrosome. here  we explore the mechanisms by which androgen and src regulate these processes and ask whether integrins play a role. we perturb integrin function by a tyrosine-to-alanine substitution in membrane-proximal npiy motif in the integrin β1 tail and show that this mutant substantially decreases microtubule nucleation and γ-tubulin accumulation at the centrosome. because androgen stimulation promotes the interaction of the androgen receptor with src  resulting in pi3k/akt and mek/erk signaling  we asked whether these pathways are inhibited by the mutant integrin and whether they regulate microtubule nucleation. our results indicate that the formation of the androgen receptor-src complex and the activation of downstream pathways are significantly suppressed when cells are adhered by the mutant integrin. inhibitor studies indicate that microtubule nucleation requires mek/erk but not pi3k/akt signaling. importantly  the expression of activated raf-1 is sufficient to rescue microtubule nucleation inhibited by the mutant integrin by promoting the centrosomal accumulation of γ-tubulin. our data define a novel paradigm of integrin signaling  where integrins regulate microtubule nucleation by promoting the formation of androgen receptor-src signaling complexes to activate the mek/erk signaling pathway.
1884,towards an improved investment approach for an effective response to hiv/aids.,substantial changes are needed to achieve a more targeted and strategic approach to investment in the response to the hiv/aids epidemic that will yield long-term dividends. until now  advocacy for resources has been done on the basis of a commodity approach that encouraged scaling up of numerous strategies in parallel  irrespective of their relative effects. we propose a strategic investment framework that is intended to support better management of national and international hiv/aids responses than exists with the present system. our framework incorporates major efficiency gains through community mobilisation  synergies between programme elements  and benefits of the extension of antiretroviral therapy for prevention of hiv transmission. it proposes three categories of investment  consisting of six basic programmatic activities  interventions that create an enabling environment to achieve maximum effectiveness  and programmatic efforts in other health and development sectors related to hiv/aids. the yearly cost of achievement of universal access to hiv prevention  treatment  care  and support by 2015 is estimated at no less than us$22 billion. implementation of the new investment framework would avert 12·2 million new hiv infections and 7·4 million deaths from aids between 2011 and 2020 compared with continuation of present approaches  and result in 29·4 million life-years gained. the framework is cost effective at $1060 per life-year gained  and the additional investment proposed would be largely offset from savings in treatment costs alone.
1886,lxrs and fxr: the yin and yang of cholesterol and fat metabolism.,liver x receptors (lxrs) and farnesoid x receptor (fxr) are nuclear receptors that function as intracellular sensors for sterols and bile acids  respectively. in response to their ligands  these receptors induce transcriptional responses that maintain a balanced  finely tuned regulation of cholesterol and bile acid metabolism. lxrs also permit the efficient storage of carbohydrate- and fat-derived energy  whereas fxr activation results in an overall decrease in triglyceride levels and modulation of glucose metabolism. the elegant  dual interplay between these two receptor systems suggests that they coevolved to constitute a highly sensitive and efficient system for the maintenance of total body fat and cholesterol homeostasis. emerging evidence suggests that the tissue-specific action of these receptors is also crucial for the proper function of the cardiovascular  immune  reproductive  endocrine pancreas  renal  and central nervous systems. together  lxrs and fxr represent potential therapeutic targets for the treatment and prevention of numerous metabolic and lipid-related diseases.
1888,star: ultrafast universal rna-seq aligner.,motivation accurate alignment of high-throughput rna-seq data is a challenging and yet unsolved problem because of the non-contiguous transcript structure  relatively short read lengths and constantly increasing throughput of the sequencing technologies. currently available rna-seq aligners suffer from high mapping error rates  low mapping speed  read length limitation and mapping biases. results to align our large (>80 billon reads) encode transcriptome rna-seq dataset  we developed the spliced transcripts alignment to a reference (star) software based on a previously undescribed rna-seq alignment algorithm that uses sequential maximum mappable seed search in uncompressed suffix arrays followed by seed clustering and stitching procedure. star outperforms other aligners by a factor of >50 in mapping speed  aligning to the human genome 550 million 2 × 76 bp paired-end reads per hour on a modest 12-core server  while at the same time improving alignment sensitivity and precision. in addition to unbiased de novo detection of canonical junctions  star can discover non-canonical splices and chimeric (fusion) transcripts  and is also capable of mapping full-length rna sequences. using roche 454 sequencing of reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction amplicons  we experimentally validated 1960 novel intergenic splice junctions with an 80-90% success rate  corroborating the high precision of the star mapping strategy. availability and implementation star is implemented as a standalone c++ code. star is free open source software distributed under gplv3 license and can be downloaded from http://code.google.com/p/rna-star/.
1890,ap-1/sigma1b-adaptin mediates endosomal synaptic vesicle recycling  learning and memory.,synaptic vesicle recycling involves ap-2/clathrin-mediated endocytosis  but it is not known whether the endosomal pathway is also required. mice deficient in the tissue-specific ap-1-sigma1b complex have impaired synaptic vesicle recycling in hippocampal synapses. the ubiquitously expressed ap-1-sigma1a complex mediates protein sorting between the trans-golgi network and early endosomes. vertebrates express three sigma1 subunit isoforms: a  b and c. the expressions of sigma1a and sigma1b are highest in the brain. synaptic vesicle reformation in cultured neurons from sigma1b-deficient mice is reduced upon stimulation  and large endosomal intermediates accumulate. the sigma1b-deficient mice have reduced motor coordination and severely impaired long-term spatial memory. these data reveal a molecular mechanism for a severe human x-chromosome-linked mental retardation.
1892,adverse events associated with the treatment of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis: a systematic review and meta-analysis.,multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (mdr-tb) is a growing public health problem. due to long duration of therapy and concurrent use of multiple second-line drugs  adverse drug events (ades) are regarded as the most important clinical consideration in patients undergoing anti-mdr-tb treatment. to evaluate the frequency and type of treatment-related ades owing to mdr-tb therapy. the cochrane library  medline  and embase were searched from inception through october 1  2012  with additional manual search of international journal of tuberculosis and lung disease. studies with available ades were selected if mdr-tb patients were treated with regimen including second-line drugs. pooled estimations of incidence for each specific type of ades were calculated with 95% confidence intervals using random-effects model. of the 5346 patients included  2602 (57.3%) experienced at least 1 kind of ade. the 3 most common side effects were gastrointestinal disorders (32.1%)  ototoxicity (14.6%)  and psychiatric disorders (13.2%). subgroup analyses based on each characteristic (study population  previous tuberculosis treated  human immunodeficiency virus prevalence  and length of treatment) did not show any significant difference between groups. additionally  among 1519 patients who developed ades with available data of impact on mdr-tb therapy  70.4% required change of mdr-tb treatment. adverse events were common among mdr-tb cases  occurring in more than half of the cases  with over two-thirds requiring change of anti-mdr-tb treatment. mdr-tb patients should be monitored closely and managed aggressively for side effects during therapy  especially for ototoxicity and psychiatric disorders.
1894,a sleeping beauty mutagenesis screen reveals a tumor suppressor role for ncoa2/src-2 in liver cancer.,the sleeping beauty (sb) transposon mutagenesis system is a powerful tool that facilitates the discovery of mutations that accelerate tumorigenesis. in this study  we sought to identify mutations that cooperate with myc  one of the most commonly dysregulated genes in human malignancy. we performed a forward genetic screen with a mouse model of myc-induced liver cancer using sb-mediated mutagenesis. we sequenced insertions in 63 liver tumor nodules and identified at least 16 genes/loci that contribute to accelerated tumor development. rnai-mediated knockdown in a liver progenitor cell line further validate three of these genes  ncoa2/src-2  zfx  and dtnb  as tumor suppressors in liver cancer. moreover  deletion of ncoa2/src-2 in mice predisposes to diethylnitrosamine-induced liver tumorigenesis. these findings reveal genes and pathways that functionally restrain myc-mediated liver tumorigenesis and therefore may provide targets for cancer therapy.
1896,molecular characterization of endometrial cancer: a correlative study assessing microsatellite instability  mlh1 hypermethylation  dna mismatch repair protein expression  and pten  pik3ca  kras  and braf mutation analysis.,endometrial cancer is associated with numeric and structural chromosomal abnormalities  microsatellite instability (msi)  and alterations that activate oncogenes and inactivate tumor suppressor genes. the aim of this study was to characterize a set of endometrial cancers using multiple molecular genetic and immunohistochemical techniques. ninety-six cases were examined for genomic alterations by msi  mlh1 promoter hypermethylation  p53 and mismatch repair protein expression (mlh1  msh2  msh6  pms2)  and pten  pik3ca  kras  and braf mutation analysis. at least 1 alteration was identified in 48 of 87 (55%) specimens tested for pten  making it the most common abnormality in this study. a pik3ca alteration was observed in 16 (17%) specimens. twenty-nine of 94 (31%) msi tested tumors exhibited an msi-h phenotype. of the 29 msi-h cases  24 (83%) were positive for methylation of the mlh1 promoter region. twenty-three (82%) of the 28 msi-h cases with immunohistochemistry results showed loss of expression of mlh1/pms2 (n=19)  msh2/msh6 (n=2)  or msh6 only (n=2). of the 19 msi-h cases with loss of mlh1/pms2 on immunohistochemistry  18 were positive  and 1 was equivocal for mlh1 promoter hypermethylation. twelve of 94 cases (13%) analyzed for kras mutations were found to have a mutation. no braf v600e mutations were indentified. this study provides a comprehensive molecular genetic analysis of commonly analyzed targets in a large cohort of endometrial cancers.
1898,evaluation of networks of randomized trials.,randomized trials may be designed and interpreted as single experiments or they may be seen in the context of other similar or relevant evidence. the amount and complexity of available randomized evidence vary for different topics. systematic reviews may be useful in identifying gaps in the existing randomized evidence  pointing to discrepancies between trials  and planning future trials. a new  promising  but also very much debated extension of systematic reviews  mixed treatment comparison (mtc) meta-analysis  has become increasingly popular recently. mtc meta-analysis may have value in interpreting the available randomized evidence from networks of trials and can rank many different treatments  going beyond focusing on simple pairwise-comparisons. nevertheless  the evaluation of networks also presents special challenges and caveats. in this article  we review the statistical methodology for mtc meta-analysis. we discuss the concept of inconsistency and methods that have been proposed to evaluate it as well as the methodological gaps that remain. we introduce the concepts of network geometry and asymmetry  and propose metrics for the evaluation of the asymmetry. finally  we discuss the implications of inconsistency  network geometry and asymmetry in informing the planning of future trials.
1900,gsk-3-mediated phosphorylation enhances maf-transforming activity.,the maf oncoproteins are b-zip transcription factors of the ap-1 superfamily. they are involved in developmental  metabolic  and tumorigenic processes. maf proteins are overexpressed in about 50% of human multiple myelomas. here  we show that maf-transforming activity is controlled by gsk-3-dependent phosphorylation and that phosphorylation by gsk-3 can increase the oncogenic activity of a protein. using microarray analysis  we identify a gene-expression subprogram regulated by gsk-3-mediated maf phosphorylation involved in extracellular matrix remodeling and relevant to cancer progression. we also demonstrate that gsk-3 triggers mafa sequential phosphorylation on residues s61  t57  t53  and s49  inducing its ubiquitination and degradation. paradoxically  this phosphorylation increases mafa-transcriptional activity through the recruitment of the coactivator p/caf. we further demonstrate that p/caf protects mafa from ubiquitination and degradation  suggesting that  upon the release of the coactivator complex  mafa becomes polyubiquitinated and degraded to allow the response to terminate.
1902,is autoimmunity the achilles' heel of cancer immunotherapy?,the emergence of immuno-oncology as the first broadly successful strategy for metastatic cancer will require clinicians to integrate this new pillar of medicine with chemotherapy  radiation  and targeted small-molecule compounds. of equal importance is gaining an understanding of the limitations and toxicities of immunotherapy. immunotherapy was initially perceived to be a relatively less toxic approach to cancer treatment than other available therapies—and surely it is  when compared to those. however  as the use of immunotherapy becomes more common  especially as first- and second-line treatments  immunotoxicity and autoimmunity are emerging as the achilles' heel of immunotherapy. in this perspective  we discuss evidence that the occurrence of immunotoxicity bodes well for the patient  and describe mechanisms that might be related to the induction of autoimmunity. we then explore approaches to limit immunotoxicity  and discuss the future directions of research and reporting that are needed to diminish it.
1904,crispr interference limits horizontal gene transfer in staphylococci by targeting dna,horizontal gene transfer (hgt) in bacteria and archaea occurs through phage transduction  transformation  or conjugation  and the latter is particularly important for the spread of antibiotic resistance. clustered  regularly interspaced  short palindromic repeat (crispr) loci confer sequence-directed immunity against phages. a clinical isolate of staphylococcus epidermidis harbors a crispr spacer that matches the nickase gene present in nearly all staphylococcal conjugative plasmids. here we show that crispr interference prevents conjugation and plasmid transformation in s. epidermidis. insertion of a self-splicing intron into nickase blocks interference despite the reconstitution of the target sequence in the spliced mrna  which indicates that the interference machinery targets dna directly. we conclude that crispr loci counteract multiple routes of hgt and can limit the spread of antibiotic resistance in pathogenic bacteria.
1906,lack of evidence of transfusion transmission of creutzfeldt-jakob disease in a us surveillance study.,background since 2004  several reported transfusion transmissions of variant creutzfeldt-jakob disease (vcjd) in the united kingdom have reawakened concerns about the possible risk of similar transmissions of nonvariant or classic forms of cjd. study design and methods patients with a cjd diagnosis and a history of donating blood were reported to the study coordinator. through review of blood distribution and hospital records  the recipients of blood components from these donors were identified. we then determined each recipient's vital status and  if deceased  the cause(s) of death identified by matching the recipient's personal identifiers with the centers for disease control and prevention's national death index database. we conducted such searches after recipients were enrolled in this study and annually thereafter for those who remained alive. results the study included a total of 36 blood donors who subsequently developed cjd and 436 recipients. through 2006  91 of these recipients were still alive  329 were deceased  and 16 were lost to follow-up. after transfusion  these three groups had survived a total of 2096.0 person-years. a total of 144 recipients survived 5 years or longer after transfusion and 68 of them had received blood donated 60 or fewer months before the onset of cjd in the donor. we identified no recipient with cjd. conclusions the current results of this large  ongoing lookback study show no evidence of transfusion transmission of cjd. they reinforce the conclusion that the risk  if any  of transfusion transmission of prion disease by cjd donors is significantly lower than the comparable risk of such transmission by vcjd donors.
1908,stem cell self-renewal specified by jak-stat activation in response to a support cell cue.,stem cells generate many differentiated  short-lived cell types  such as blood  skin  and sperm  throughout adult life. stem cells maintain a long-term capacity to divide  producing daughter cells that either self-renew or initiate differentiation. although the surrounding microenvironment or "niche" influences stem cell fate decisions  few signals that emanate from the niche to specify stem cell self-renewal have been identified. here we demonstrate that the apical hub cells in the drosophila testis act as a cellular niche that supports stem cell self-renewal. hub cells express the ligand unpaired (upd)  which activates the janus kinase-signal transducer and activator of transcription (jak-stat) pathway in adjacent germ cells to specify self-renewal and continual maintenance of the germ line stem cell population.
1910,tetraspanin 3 is required for the development and propagation of acute myelogenous leukemia.,acute myelogenous leukemia (aml) is an aggressive cancer that strikes both adults and children and is frequently resistant to therapy. thus  identifying signals needed for aml propagation is a critical step toward developing new approaches for treating this disease. here  we show that tetraspanin 3 is a target of the rna binding protein musashi 2  which plays a key role in aml. we generated tspan3 knockout mice that were born without overt defects. however  tspan3 deletion impaired leukemia stem cell self-renewal and disease propagation and markedly improved survival in mouse models of aml. additionally  tspan3 inhibition blocked growth of aml patient samples  suggesting that tspan3 is also important in human disease. as part of the mechanism  we show that tspan3 deficiency disabled responses to cxcl12/sdf-1 and led to defects in aml localization within the niche. these identify tspan3 as an important regulator of aggressive leukemias and highlight a role for tspan3 in oncogenesis.
1912,topoisomerase ii plays an essential role as a swivelase in the late stage of sv40 chromosome replication in vitro.,the effects of topoisomerases i and ii on the replication of sv40 dna were examined using an in vitro replication system of purified proteins that constitutes the monopolymerase system. in the presence of the two topoisomerases  two distinct nascent dnas were formed. one product arising from the replication of the leading template strand was approximately half the size of the template dna  whereas the other product derived from the lagging template strand consisted of short dnas. these products were synthesized from both sv40 naked dna and sv40 chromosomes. for the replication of sv40 naked dna  either topoisomerase i or ii maintained replication fork movement and supported complete leading strand synthesis. when sv40 chromosomes were replicated with the same proteins  reactions containing only topoisomerase i produced shorter leading strands. however  mature size dna products accumulated in reactions supplemented with topoisomerase ii  as well as in reactions containing only topoisomerase ii. in the presence of crude extracts of hela cells  vp-16  a specific inhibitor of topoisomerase ii  blocked elongation of the nascent dna during the replication of sv40 chromosomes. these results indicate that topoisomerase ii plays a crucial role as a swivelase in the late stage of sv40 chromosome replication in vitro.
1914,timing requirements for insulin/igf-1 signaling in c. elegans.,the insulin/igf-1 (where igf-1 is insulin-like growth factor-1) signaling pathway influences longevity  reproduction  and diapause in many organisms. because of the fundamental importance of this system in animal physiology  we asked when during the animal's life it is required to regulate these different processes. we find that in caenorhabditis elegans  the pathway acts during adulthood  to relatively advanced ages  to influence aging. in contrast  it regulates diapause during development. in addition  the pathway controls longevity and reproduction independently of one another. together our findings show that life-span regulation can be dissociated temporally from phenotypes that might seem to decrease the quality of life.
1916,folding and self-assembly of the tata translocation pore based on a charge zipper mechanism,we propose a concept for the folding and self-assembly of the pore-forming tata complex from the twin-arginine translocase and of other membrane proteins based on electrostatic "charge zippers. " each subunit of tata consists of a transmembrane segment  an amphiphilic helix (aph)  and a c-terminal densely charged region (dcr). the sequence of charges in the dcr is complementary to the charge pattern on the aph  suggesting that the protein can be "zipped up" by a ladder of seven salt bridges. the length of the resulting hairpin matches the lipid bilayer thickness  hence a transmembrane pore could self-assemble via intra- and intermolecular salt bridges. the steric feasibility was rationalized by molecular dynamics simulations  and experimental evidence was obtained by monitoring the monomer-oligomer equilibrium of specific charge mutants. similar "charge zippers" are proposed for other membrane-associated proteins  e.g.  the biofilm-inducing peptide tisb  the human antimicrobial peptide dermcidin  and the pestiviral e(rns) protein.
1918,lipoatrophy and severe metabolic disturbance in mice with fat-specific deletion of pparγ.,adipose tissue is an important metabolic organ  the dysfunction of which is associated with the development of obesity  diabetes mellitus  and cardiovascular disease. the nuclear receptor peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (pparγ) is considered the master regulator of adipocyte differentiation and function. although its cell-autonomous role in adipogenesis has been clearly demonstrated in cell culture  previous fat-specific knockouts of the murine pparγ gene did not demonstrate a dramatic phenotype in vivo. here  using adipoq-cre mice to drive adipose-specific recombination  we report a unique fat-specific pparγ knockout (pparγ fko) mouse model with almost no visible brown and white adipose tissue at age 3 mo. as a consequence  pparγ fko mice had hugely enlarged pancreatic islets  massive fatty livers  and dramatically elevated levels of blood glucose and serum insulin accompanied by extreme insulin resistance. pparγ fko mice also exhibited delayed hair coat formation associated with absence of dermal fat  disrupted mammary gland development with loss of mammary fat pads  and high bone mass with loss of bone marrow fat  indicating the critical roles of adipose pparγ in these tissues. together  our data reveal the necessity of fat pparγ in adipose formation  whole-body metabolic homeostasis  and normal development of fat-containing tissues.
1920,fumarase deficiency in dichorionic diamniotic twins.,fumarase deficiency is a rare autosomal recessive inborn error of metabolism of the krebs tricarboxylic acid cycle. a heavy neurological disease burden is imparted by fumarase deficiency  commonly manifesting as microcephaly  dystonia  global developmental delay  seizures  and lethality in the infantile period. heterozygous carriers also carry an increased risk of developing hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell carcinoma. we describe a non-consanguineous family in whom a dichorionic diamniotic twin pregnancy resulted in twin boys with fumarase deficiency proven at the biochemical  enzymatic  and molecular levels. their clinical phenotype included hepatic involvement. a novel mutation in the fumarate hydratase gene was identified in this family.
1922,ecologic versus individual-level sources of bias in ecologic estimates of contextual health effects.,a number of authors have attempted to defend ecologic (aggregate) studies by claiming that the goal of those studies is estimation of ecologic (contextual or group-level) effects rather than individual-level effects. critics of these attempts point out that ecologic effect estimates are inevitably used as estimates of individual effects  despite disclaimers. a more subtle problem is that ecologic variation in the distribution of individual effects can bias ecologic estimates of contextual effects. the conditions leading to this bias are plausible and perhaps even common in studies of ecosocial factors and health outcomes because social context is not randomized across typical analysis units (administrative regions). by definition  ecologic data contain only marginal observations on the joint distribution of individually defined confounders and outcomes  and so identify neither contextual nor individual-level effects. while ecologic studies can still be useful given appropriate caveats  their problems are better addressed by multilevel study designs  which obtain and use individual as well as group-level data. nonetheless  such studies often share certain special problems with ecologic studies  including problems due to inappropriate aggregation and problems due to temporal changes in covariate distributions.
1924,obesity  type 2 diabetes  and cancer: the insulin and igf connection.,epidemiological studies suggest a positive association between obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus (t2d) with the risk of cancer and cancer-related mortality. insulin resistance  hyperinsulinemia  increased levels of igf  elevated levels of steroid and peptide hormones  and inflammatory markers appear to play a role in the connection between these different diseases. medications  such as metformin and exogenous insulin  used to treat t2d may affect the risk of cancer and cancer-related mortality. newer therapies targeting the insulin and igf1 systems are being developed for use in cancer therapy.
1926,nmr structural and kinetic characterization of a homeodomain diffusing and hopping on nonspecific dna.,nonspecific protein-dna interactions are inherently dynamic and involve both diffusion of the protein along the dna and hopping of the protein from one dna molecule or segment to another. understanding how gene regulatory proteins interact nonspecifically with dna in terms of both structure and dynamics is challenging because the experimental observables are an ensemble average of many rapidly exchanging states. by using a variety of nmr spectroscopic techniques  including relaxation analysis  paramagnetic relaxation enhancement  and residual dipolar couplings  we have characterized structural and kinetic aspects of the interaction of the hoxd9 homeodomain with a nonspecific  24-bp dna duplex in a system in which the protein is not constrained to any particular site. the data reveal that hoxd9 binds to nonspecific dna with the same binding mode and orientation as that observed in the specific complex. the mobility  however  of arg side-chains contacting the dna is increased in the nonspecific complex relative to the specific one. the kinetics of intermolecular translocation between two different nonspecific dna molecules have also been analyzed and reveal that at high dna concentrations (such as those present in vivo) direct transfer from one nonspecific complex to another nonspecific dna molecule occurs without going through the intermediary of free protein. this finding provides a simple mechanism for accelerating the target search in vivo for the specific site in a sea of nonspecific sites by permitting more effective sampling of available dna sites as the protein jumps from one segment to another.
1928,the sir2/3/4 complex and sir2 alone promote longevity in saccharomyces cerevisiae by two different mechanisms. genes dev 13,the sir genes are determinants of life span in yeast mother cells. here we show that life span regulation by the sir proteins is independent of their role in nonhomologous end joining. the short life span of a sir3 or sir4 mutant is due to the simultaneous expression of a and alpha mating-type information  which indirectly causes an increase in rdna recombination and likely increases the production of extrachromosomal rdna circles. the short life span of a sir2 mutant also reveals a direct failure to repress recombination generated by the fob1p-mediated replication block in the rdna. sir2p is a limiting component in promoting yeast longevity  and increasing the gene dosage extends the life span in wild-type cells. a possible role of the conserved sir2 in mammalian aging is discussed.
1930,phosphorylation of histone h3(t118) alters nucleosome dynamics and remodeling,nucleosomes  the fundamental units of chromatin structure  are regulators and barriers to transcription  replication and repair. post-translational modifications (ptms) of the histone proteins within nucleosomes regulate these dna processes. histone h3(t118) is a site of phosphorylation [h3(t118ph)] and is implicated in regulation of transcription and dna repair. we prepared h3(t118ph) by expressed protein ligation and determined its influence on nucleosome dynamics. we find h3(t118ph) reduces dna-histone binding by 2  kcal/mol  increases nucleosome mobility by 28-fold and increases dna accessibility near the dyad region by 6-fold. moreover  h3(t118ph) increases the rate of hmsh2-hmsh6 nucleosome disassembly and enables nucleosome disassembly by the swi/snf chromatin remodeler. these studies suggest that h3(t118ph) directly enhances and may reprogram chromatin remodeling reactions.
1932,control of cellular cholesterol efflux by the nuclear oxysterol receptor lxr alpha.,lxr alpha is a nuclear receptor that has previously been shown to regulate the metabolic conversion of cholesterol to bile acids. here we define a role for this transcription factor in the control of cellular cholesterol efflux. we demonstrate that retroviral expression of lxr alpha in nih 3t3 fibroblasts or raw264.7 macrophages and/or treatment of these cells with oxysterol ligands of lxr results in 7- to 30-fold induction of the mrna encoding the putative cholesterol/phospholipid transporter atp-binding cassette (abc)a1. in contrast  induction of abca1 mrna in response to oxysterols is attenuated in cells that constitutively express dominant-negative forms of lxr alpha or lxr beta that lack the af2 transcriptional activation domain. we further demonstrate that expression of lxr alpha in nih 3t3 fibroblasts and/or treatment of these cells with oxysterols is sufficient to stimulate cholesterol efflux to extracellular apolipoprotein ai. the ability of oxysterol ligands of lxr to stimulate efflux is dramatically reduced in tangier fibroblasts  which carry a loss of function mutation in the abca1 gene. taken together  these results indicate that cellular cholesterol efflux is controlled  at least in part  at the level of transcription by a nuclear receptor-signaling pathway. they suggest a model in which activation of lxrs by oxysterols in response to cellular sterol loading leads to induction of the abca1 transporter and the stimulation of lipid efflux to extracellular acceptors. these findings have important implications for our understanding of mammalian cholesterol homeostasis and suggest new opportunities for pharmacological regulation of cellular lipid metabolism.
1934,mdc1 collaborates with topbp1 in dna replication checkpoint control,human topbp1 is a major player in the control of the dna replication checkpoint. in this study  we identified mdc1  a key checkpoint protein involved in the cellular response to dna double-strand breaks  as a topbp1-associated protein. the specific topbp1-mdc1 interaction is mediated by the fifth brct domain of topbp1 and the ser-asp-thr (sdt) repeats of mdc1. in addition  we demonstrated that topbp1 accumulation at stalled replication forks is promoted by the h2ax/mdc1 signaling cascade. moreover  mdc1 is important for atr-dependent chk1 activation in response to replication stress. collectively  our data suggest that mdc1 facilitates several important steps in both cellular dna damage response and the dna replication checkpoint.
1936,chromosome 7 gain and dna hypermethylation at the hoxa10 locus are associated with expression of a stem cell related hox-signature in glioblastoma,background hox genes are a family of developmental genes that are expressed neither in the developing forebrain nor in the normal brain. aberrant expression of a hox-gene dominated stem-cell signature in glioblastoma has been linked with increased resistance to chemo-radiotherapy and sustained proliferation of glioma initiating cells. here we describe the epigenetic and genetic alterations and their interactions associated with the expression of this signature in glioblastoma. results we observe prominent hypermethylation of the hoxa locus 7p15.2 in glioblastoma in contrast to non-tumoral brain. hypermethylation is associated with a gain of chromosome 7  a hallmark of glioblastoma  and may compensate for tumor-driven enhanced gene dosage as a rescue mechanism by preventing undue gene expression. we identify the cpg island of the hoxa10 alternative promoter that appears to escape hypermethylation in the hox-high glioblastoma. an additive effect of gene copy gain at 7p15.2 and dna methylation at key regulatory cpgs in hoxa10 is significantly associated with hox-signature expression. additionally  we show concordance between methylation status and presence of active or inactive chromatin marks in glioblastoma-derived spheres that are hox-high or hox-low  respectively. conclusions based on these findings  we propose co-evolution and interaction between gene copy gain  associated with a gain of chromosome 7  and additional epigenetic alterations as key mechanisms triggering a coordinated  but inappropriate  hox transcriptional program in glioblastoma.
1938,using structural information to change the phosphotransfer specificity of a two-component chemotaxis signalling complex,two-component signal transduction pathways comprising histidine protein kinases (hpks) and their response regulators (rrs) are widely used to control bacterial responses to environmental challenges. some bacteria have over 150 different two-component pathways  and the specificity of the phosphotransfer reactions within these systems is tightly controlled to prevent unwanted crosstalk. one of the best understood two-component signalling pathways is the chemotaxis pathway. here  we present the 1.40 a crystal structure of the histidine-containing phosphotransfer domain of the chemotaxis hpk  chea(3)  in complex with its cognate rr  chey(6). a methionine finger on chey(6) that nestles in a hydrophobic pocket in chea(3) was shown to be important for the interaction and was found to only occur in the cognate rrs of chea(3)  chey(6)  and cheb(2). site-directed mutagenesis of this methionine in combination with two adjacent residues abolished binding  as shown by surface plasmon resonance studies  and phosphotransfer from chea(3)-p to chey(6). introduction of this methionine and an adjacent alanine residue into a range of noncognate cheys  dramatically changed their specificity  allowing protein interaction and rapid phosphotransfer from chea(3)-p. the structure presented here has allowed us to identify specificity determinants for the chea-chey interaction and subsequently to successfully reengineer phosphotransfer signalling. in summary  our results provide valuable insight into how cells mediate specificity in one of the most abundant signalling pathways in biology  two-component signal transduction.
1940,effect of a c/ebp gene replacement on mitochondrial biogenesis in fat cells.,ccaat/enhancer-binding proteins  c/ebpalpha and c/ebpbeta  are required for fat cell differentiation and maturation. previous studies showed that replacement of c/ebpalpha with c/ebpbeta  generating the beta/beta alleles in the mouse genome  prevents lipid accumulation in white adipose tissue (wat). in this study  beta/beta mice lived longer and had higher energy expenditure than their control littermates due to increased wat energy oxidation. the wat of beta/beta mice was enriched with metabolically active  thermogenic mitochondria known for energy burning. the beta/beta allele exerted its effect through the elevated expression of the g protein alpha stimulatory subunit (galphas) in wat. galphas  when overexpressed in fat-laden 3t3-l1 cells  stimulated mitochondrial biogenesis similar to that seen in the wat of beta/beta mice  and effectively diminished the stored lipid pool.
1942,copyright � 1996  american society for microbiology endotoxin-induced enhancement of glucose influx into,hypoglycemia is among the most injurious metabolic disorders caused by endotoxemia. in experimental endotoxemia with lipopolysaccharide (lps) in animals  a marked glucose consumption is observed in macrophage-rich organs. however  the direct effect of lps on the uptake of glucose by macrophages has not been fully understood  and the present study was undertaken to shed light on this point. the consumption and uptake of glucose  as measured with 2-deoxy-d-[3h]glucose  by murine peritoneal exudate macrophages in culture were accelerated two- to threefold by stimulation with 3 ng of lps per ml. the rate of glucose uptake reached a plateau after 20 min of stimulation and remained at the maximum as long as lps was present. northern (rna) blot analysis with cdna probes for five known isoforms of glucose transporter (glut) revealed that the expression of glut by macrophages was restricted to the glut1 isoform during lps stimulation and the amount of glut1 mrna was increased by the stimulation. these results suggest that macrophage responses to lps are supported by a rapid and sustained glucose influx via glut1 and that this is a participating factor in the development of systemic hypoglycemia when endotoxemia is prolonged.
1944,body-mass index and mortality in korean men and women.,background obesity is associated with diverse health risks  but the role of body weight as a risk factor for death remains controversial. methods we examined the association between body weight and the risk of death in a 12-year prospective cohort study of 1 213 829 koreans between the ages of 30 and 95 years. we examined 82 372 deaths from any cause and 48 731 deaths from specific diseases (including 29 123 from cancer  16 426 from atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease  and 3362 from respiratory disease) in relation to the body-mass index (bmi) (the weight in kilograms divided by the square of the height in meters). results in both sexes  the average baseline bmi was 23.2  and the rate of death from any cause had a j-shaped association with the bmi  regardless of cigarette-smoking history. the risk of death from any cause was lowest among patients with a bmi of 23.0 to 24.9. in all groups  the risk of death from respiratory causes was higher among subjects with a lower bmi  and the risk of death from atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease or cancer was higher among subjects with a higher bmi. the relative risk of death associated with bmi declined with increasing age. conclusions underweight  overweight  and obese men and women had higher rates of death than men and women of normal weight. the association of bmi with death varied according to the cause of death and was modified by age  sex  and smoking history.
1946,snares — engines for membrane fusion,since the discovery of snare proteins in the late 1980s  snares have been recognized as key components of protein complexes that drive membrane fusion. despite considerable sequence divergence among snare proteins  their mechanism seems to be conserved and is adaptable for fusion reactions as diverse as those involved in cell growth  membrane repair  cytokinesis and synaptic transmission. a fascinating picture of these robust nanomachines is emerging.
1948,cell type of origin influences the molecular and functional properties of mouse induced pluripotent stem cells,induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs) have been derived from various somatic cell populations through ectopic expression of defined factors. it remains unclear whether ipscs generated from different cell types are molecularly and functionally similar. here we show that ipscs obtained from mouse fibroblasts  hematopoietic and myogenic cells exhibit distinct transcriptional and epigenetic patterns. moreover  we demonstrate that cellular origin influences the in vitro differentiation potentials of ipscs into embryoid bodies and different hematopoietic cell types. notably  continuous passaging of ipscs largely attenuates these differences. our results suggest that early-passage ipscs retain a transient epigenetic memory of their somatic cells of origin  which manifests as differential gene expression and altered differentiation capacity. these observations may influence ongoing attempts to use ipscs for disease modeling and could also be exploited in potential therapeutic applications to enhance differentiation into desired cell lineages.
1950,randomized trial of folic acid supplementation and serum homocysteine levels.,background lowering serum homocysteine levels with folic acid is expected to reduce mortality from ischemic heart disease. homocysteine reduction is known to be maximal at a folic acid dosage of 1 mg/d  but the effect of lower doses (relevant to food fortification) is unclear. methods we randomized 151 patients with ischemic heart disease to 1 of 5 dosages of folic acid (0.2  0.4  0.6  0.8  and 1.0 mg/d) or placebo. fasting blood samples for serum homocysteine and serum folate analysis were taken initially  after 3 months of supplementation  and 3 months after folic acid use was discontinued. results median serum homocysteine level decreased with increasing folic acid dosage  to a maximum at 0.8 mg of folic acid per day  when the homocysteine reduction (placebo adjusted) was 2.7 micromol/l (23%)  similar to the known effect of folic acid dosages of 1 mg/d and above. the higher a person's initial serum homocysteine level  the greater was the response to folic acid  but there were statistically significant reductions regardless of the initial level. serum folate level increased approximately linearly (5.5 nmol/l for every 0.1 mg of folic acid). within-person fluctuations over time in serum homocysteine levels  measured in the placebo group  were large compared with the effect of folic acid  indicating that monitoring of the reduction in an individual is impractical. conclusions a dosage of folic acid of 0.8 mg/d appears necessary to achieve the maximum reduction in serum homocysteine level across the range of homocysteine levels in the population. current us food fortification levels will achieve only a small proportion of the achievable homocysteine reduction.
1952,multiple roles of vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) in skeletal development  growth  and repair.,publisher summary this chapter discusses the developmental roles of vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) in skeletal morphogenesis  speculates on the future directions of research in this area  and describes some of the challenges in the field. vegf regulates osteoclastic differentiation  migration  and activity. vegf is  therefore  a key coordinator of the entire process. vegf is necessary for osteoclastic activity both at the stage when the primary ossification center is established and later during bone growth. a number of studies have led to the identification of vegf as a critical factor for the survival of chondrocytes. several factors with important roles in regulating bone formation also induce the expression of vegf by osteoblasts. prostaglandins e1 and e2  bmp-4  bmp-6  bmp-7  fgf-2  tgf-β  endothelin-1  igf-1  and vitamin d3 can all induce vegf expression in osteoblasts by activating a variety of signaling pathways. bone fractures can heal in two divergent ways  similar to the two ways of forming bone during embryonic development. stabilized fractures heal by intramembranous ossification  and unstable fractures undergo endochondral ossification. the similarity between the embryonic bone development and repair of fractured bones  coupled with the finding that vegf is expressed at sites of bone fracture  suggests that vegf is involved in bone repair as it is in bone development.
1954,streptococcus pneumoniae early response genes to human lung epithelial cells,background streptococcus pneumoniae infection starts from colonization of the host respiratory tract where interaction with host respiratory tract epithelial cells occurs. to investigate pneumococcal genes that are involved in the early stage of interaction with host epithelial cells  transcriptional responses of an encapsulated pathogenic pneumococcal strain tigr4 upon exposure to human lung epithelial cells a549 for 0.5 h and 1 h time periods were investigated by using tigr (jcvi) microarray technology. gene expression changes were validated by quantitative real-time pcr (qrt-pcr) analysis. findings we observed different transcriptional profiles at two incubation time periods in which most gene expressions were down-regulated at 0.5 h but up-regulated at 1 h. many genes associated with ribonucleotide biosynthesis were down-regulated at both time points  whereas the genes associated with cell envelope  energy metabolism  transport and protein synthesis were mostly up-regulated at 1 h. furthermore  these profiles were compared to the transcriptomes of a tigr4-derived strain in response to human macrophages for the same time periods. we found one set of genes that exhibited similar expression changes upon exposure to both types of host cells  including cell envelope-associated bgaa (sp0648) and nana (sp1693)  and uncharacterized gene clusters such as sp1677-sp1680 and sp1688-sp1690. conclusion these data indicate that at the early stage of interaction with host epithelial cells  a complex gene regulation and expression change occur in bacteria. some of them might play an essential role during pathogen-host interactions and for the establishment of infection.
1956,empirical statistical estimates for sequence similarity searches,the fasta package of sequence comparison programs has been modified to provide accurate statistical estimates for local sequence similarity scores with gaps. these estimates are derived using the extreme value distribution from the mean and variance of the local similarity scores of unrelated sequences after the scores have been corrected for the expected effect of library sequence length. this approach allows accurate estimates to be calculated for both fasta and smith-waterman similarity scores for protein/protein  dna/dna  and protein/translated-dna comparisons. the accuracy of the statistical estimates is summarized for 54 protein families using fasta and smith-waterman scores. probability estimates calculated from the distribution of similarity scores are generally conservative  as are probabilities calculated using the altschul-gish lambda  kappa  and eta parameters. the performance of several alternative methods for correcting similarity scores for library-sequence length was evaluated using 54 protein superfamilies from the pir39 database and 110 protein families from the prosite/swissprot rel. 34 database. both regression-scaled and altschul-gish scaled scores perform significantly better than unscaled smith-waterman or fasta similarity scores. when the prosite/ swissprot test set is used  regression-scaled scores perform slightly better; when the pir database is used  altschul-gish scaled scores perform best. thus  length-corrected similarity scores improve the sensitivity of database searches. statistical parameters that are derived from the distribution of similarity scores from the thousands of unrelated sequences typically encountered in a database search provide accurate estimates of statistical significance that can be used to infer sequence homology.
1958,regulation and effects of hypothalamic galanin: relation to dietary fat  alcohol ingestion  circulating lipids and energy homeostasis.,galanin (gal) is known to stimulate feeding behavior. this peptide has different properties and functions from other feeding stimulants  e.g.  neuropeptide y and agouti-related protein. hypothalamic gal is relatively unresponsive to food deprivation and to changes in corticosterone  glucose utilization  dietary carbohydrate and leptin. this indicates that this peptide is not essential under conditions when food is scarce or low-energy  high-carbohydrate diets are being consumed. in contrast  recent evidence suggests that gal in the paraventricular nucleus (pvn) functions in close relation to dietary fat and alcohol. in particular  it mediates functions that allow animals to adapt to conditions of positive energy balance involving excess consumption of these nutrients. this peptide in the pvn is stimulated by a high-fat diet and also by alcohol. it is stimulated by an increase in circulating lipids caused by a fat-rich meal or alcohol consumption  and it rises during the middle of the active feeding cycle  when fat consumption and triglycerides naturally rise. when centrally injected  gal in the pvn increases the consumption of food and alcohol. moreover  it produces a significantly stronger feeding response in rats maintained on a fat-rich diet  which also promotes alcohol intake. this evidence supports the existence of non-homeostatic  positive feedback circuits between gal and both dietary fat and alcohol. these circuits are believed to contribute to the large meal size  over-consumption of alcohol  and obesity which are generally associated with fat-rich foods.
1960,fgf regulates tgf-β signaling and endothelial-to-mesenchymal transition via control of let-7 mirna expression.,maintenance of normal endothelial function is critical to various aspects of blood vessel function  but its regulation is poorly understood. in this study  we show that disruption of baseline fibroblast growth factor (fgf) signaling to the endothelium leads to a dramatic reduction in let-7 mirna levels that  in turn  increases expression of transforming growth factor (tgf)-β ligands and receptors and activation of tgf-β signaling  leading to endothelial-to-mesenchymal transition (endo-mt). we also find that endo-mt is an important driver of neointima formation in a murine transplant arteriopathy model and in rejection of human transplant lesions. the decline in endothelial fgf signaling input is due to the appearance of an fgf resistance state that is characterized by inflammation-dependent reduction in expression and activation of key components of the fgf signaling cascade. these results establish fgf signaling as a critical factor in maintenance of endothelial homeostasis and point to an unexpected role of endo-mt in vascular pathology.
1962,a genome-wide short hairpin rna screening of jurkat t-cells for human proteins contributing to productive hiv-1 replication.,short interfering rnas (sirnas) have been used to inhibit hiv-1 replication. the durable inhibition of hiv-1 replication by rna interference has been impeded  however  by a high mutation rate when viral sequences are targeted and by cytotoxicity when cellular genes are knocked down. to identify cellular proteins that contribute to hiv-1 replication that can be chronically silenced without significant cytotoxicity  we employed a shrna library that targets 54 509 human transcripts. we used this library to select a comprehensive population of jurkat t-cell clones  each expressing a single discrete shrna. the jurkat clones were then infected with hiv-1. clones that survived viral infection represent moieties silenced for a human mrna needed for virus replication  but whose chronic knockdown did not cause cytotoxicity. overall  252 individual jurkat mrnas were identified. twenty-two of these mrnas were secondarily verified for their contributions to hiv-1 replication. five mrnas  nrf1  stxbp2  ncoa3  prdm2  and exosc5  were studied for their effect on steps of the hiv-1 life cycle. we discuss the similarities and differences between our shrna findings for hiv-1 using a spreading infection assay in human jurkat t-cells and results from other investigators who used sirna-based screenings in hela or 293t cells.
1964,bmp/smad1 signaling sets a threshold for the left/right pathway in lateral plate mesoderm and limits availability of smad4.,bistability in developmental pathways refers to the generation of binary outputs from graded or noisy inputs. signaling thresholds are critical for bistability. specification of the left/right (lr) axis in vertebrate embryos involves bistable expression of transforming growth factor beta (tgfbeta) member nodal in the left lateral plate mesoderm (lpm) controlled by feed-forward and feedback loops. here we provide evidence that bone morphogenetic protein (bmp)/smad1 signaling sets a repressive threshold in the lpm essential for the integrity of lr signaling. conditional deletion of smad1 in the lpm led to precocious and bilateral pathway activation. nodal expression from both the left and right sides of the node contributed to bilateral activation  indicating sensitivity of mutant lpm to noisy input from the lr system. in vitro  bmp signaling inhibited nodal pathway activation and formation of its downstream smad2/4-foxh1 transcriptional complex. activity was restored by overexpression of smad4 and in embryos  elevated smad4 in the right lpm robustly activated lr gene expression  an effect reversed by superactivated bmp signaling. we conclude that bmp/smad1 signaling sets a bilateral  repressive threshold for nodal-dependent nodal activation in lpm  limiting availability of smad4. this repressive threshold is essential for bistable output of the lr system.
1966,differentiation of human induced-pluripotent stem cells into smooth-muscle cells: two novel protocols,conventional protocols for differentiating human induced-pluripotent stem cells (hipscs) into smooth-muscle cells (smcs) can be inefficient and generally fail to yield cells with a specific smc phenotype (i.e.  contractile or synthetic smcs). here  we present two novel hipsc-smc differentiation protocols that yield smcs with predominantly contractile or synthetic phenotypes. flow cytometry analyses of smooth-muscle actin (sma) expression indicated that ~45% of the cells obtained with each protocol assumed an smc phenotype  and that the populations could be purified to ~95% via metabolic selection. assessments of cellular mrna and/or protein levels indicated that sma  myosin heavy chain ii  collagen 1  calponin  transgelin  connexin 43  and vimentin expression in the smcs obtained via the contractile smc protocol and in smcs differentiated via a traditional protocol were similar  while smcs produced via the sythetic smc protocol expressed less calponin  more collagen 1  and more connexin 43. differences were also observed in functional assessments of the two smc populations: the two-dimensional surface area of contractile smcs declined more extensively (to 12% versus 44% of original size) in response to carbachol treatment  while quantification of cell migration and proliferation were greater in synthetic smcs. collectively  these data demonstrate that our novel differentiation protocols can efficiently generate smcs from hipscs.
1968,commd proteins  a novel family of structural and functional homologs of murr1.,murr1 is a multifunctional protein that inhibits nuclear factor kappab (nf-kappab)  a transcription factor with pleiotropic functions affecting innate and adaptive immunity  apoptosis  cell cycle regulation  and oncogenesis. here we report the discovery of a new family of proteins with homology to murr1. these proteins form multimeric complexes and were identified in a biochemical screen for murr1-associated factors. the family is defined by the presence of a conserved and unique motif termed the comm (copper metabolism gene murr1) domain  which functions as an interface for protein-protein interactions. like murr1  several of these factors also associate with and inhibit nf-kappab. the proteins designated as commd or comm domain containing 1-10 are extensively conserved in multicellular eukaryotic organisms and define a novel family of structural and functional homologs of murr1. the prototype of this family  murr1/commd1  suppresses nf-kappab not by affecting nuclear translocation or binding of nf-kappab to cognate motifs; rather  it functions in the nucleus by affecting the association of nf-kappab with chromatin.
1970,fresh meat and further processing characteristics of ham muscles from finishing pigs fed ractopamine hydrochloride.,ractopamine hydrochloride (rac) has consistently led to an advantage in carcass cutting yields of finishing pigs and remains a common feed additive in us finishing pig diets. less is known about the effect of rac on further processing characteristics. some researchers have reported advantages in ultimate ph of the lm in pigs fed rac. if a greater ultimate ph was also observed in hams  the increased ph could affect further processing characteristics and lead to better protein interaction and improved textural properties. the objective of this experiment was to determine if rac-fed pigs yielded hams with a greater ultimate ph  and if so  whether or not that advantage improves textural properties and water retention of further processed hams. two hundred hams from barrows and gilts fed rac or control diets were selected based on hcw. hams were fabricated into 5 separate pieces to determine cutting yields  and 6 muscles were evaluated for ultimate ph. hams were processed to make cured and smoked hams. ractopamine increased cutting yields of the whole ham (p < 0.0001)  inside (p < 0.01)  outside (p < 0.01)  and knuckle (p < 0.01) when expressed as a percentage of chilled side weight. ultimate ph of the rectus femoris  vastus lateralis  and semitendinosus were all 0.06 ph units greater (p < 0.05)  the biceps femoris was 0.04 ph units greater (p = 0.02)  and the semimembranosus and adductor muscles were 0.03 ph units greater in pigs fed 7.4 mg/kg of rac when compared with control pigs. cured hams from rac-fed pigs were heavier at all stages of production. no differences were detected in binding strengths (p = 0.88) or protein fat-free values (p = 0.13) between rac (9.06 kg and 20.37) and control hams (9.01 kg and 20.13). ractopamine increased cutting yields  total weight of cured hams  and ultimate muscle ph. ractopamine can be fed to pigs to achieve the desired growth characteristic advantages and cutting yields without affecting further processed ham characteristics.
1972,effect of mammographic screening from age 40 years on breast cancer mortality in the uk age trial at 17 years' follow-up: a randomised controlled trial.,background age-specific effects of mammographic screening  and the timing of such effects  are a matter of debate. the results of the uk age trial  which compared the effect of invitation to annual mammographic screening from age 40 years with commencement of screening at age 50 years on breast cancer mortality  have been reported at 10 years of follow-up and showed no significant difference in mortality between the trial groups. here  we report the results of the uk age trial after 17 years of follow-up. methods women aged 39-41 from 23 uk nhs breast screening programme units years were randomly assigned by individual randomisation (1:2) to either an intervention group offered annual screening by mammography up to and including the calendar year of their 48th birthday or to a control group receiving usual medical care (invited for screening at age 50 years and every 3 years thereafter). both groups were stratified by general practice. we compared breast cancer incidence and mortality by time since randomisation. analyses included all women randomly assigned who could be traced with the national health service central register and who had not died or emigrated before entry. the primary outcome measures were mortality from breast cancer (defined as deaths with breast cancer coded as the underlying cause of death) and breast cancer incidence  including in-situ  invasive  and total incidence. because there is an interest in the timing of the mortality effect  we analysed the results in different follow-up periods. this trial is registered  number isrctn24647151. findings between oct 14  1990  and sept 25  1997  160 921 participants were randomly assigned; 53 883 women in the intervention group and 106 953 assigned to usual medical care were included in this analysis. after a median follow-up of 17 years (iqr 16·8-18·8)  the rate ratio (rr) for breast cancer mortality was 0·88 (95% ci 0·74-1·04) from tumours diagnosed during the intervention phase. a significant reduction in breast cancer mortality was noted in the intervention group compared with the control group in the first 10 years after diagnosis (rr 0·75  0·58-0·97) but not thereafter (rr 1·02  0·80-1·30) from tumours diagnosed during the intervention phase. the overall breast cancer incidence during 17 year follow-up was similar between the intervention group and the control group (rr 0·98  0·93-1·04). interpretation our results support an early reduction in mortality from breast cancer with annual mammography screening in women aged 40-49 years. further data are needed to fully understand long-term effects. cumulative incidence figures suggest at worst a small amount of overdiagnosis. funding national institute for health research health technology assessment programme and the american cancer society. past funding was received from the medical research council  cancer research uk  the uk department of health  and the us national cancer institute.
1974,a literature review of the safety of medical body area network devices in magnetic resonance imaging,electro-magnetic fields and wireless technology are part of modern life. the use of magnetic resonance imaging (mri) machines for clarification of internal human structures and function in healthcare is increasing. the rapid development of wireless devices  their miniaturization and their application as clinical tools creates an expanding intersection zone. although safety standards for devices in mri machines have been previously published  it is not clear that newer wireless technologies  including devices used in medical body area networks (mban) have been rigorously tested or disclosed. we undertook a review of the clinical scientific literature and the united states food and drug administration adverse events database to discover whether this is a significant issue. there are currently no published studies specifically addressing the safety of wireless devices potentially used in mban in mri machines. we suggest the addition of a research track to clarify the safety of mban devices in mri machines. informed design of current and future mban components  devices and systems can avoid potential patient adverse events due to the un-intended consequences of the concurrent use of these technologies in mri machines.
1976,c-src and cooperating partners in human cancer.,the proto-oncogene c-src is rarely mutated in human cancers  and when overexpressed in normal cells is non- or weakly oncogenic. these observations have raised doubts about the involvement of c-src in the etiology of human tumors. however  recent studies have shown that c-src  a non-receptor tyrosine kinase  exhibits elevated protein levels and activity in numerous types of human cancers. furthermore  it has been found to be a critical component of multiple signaling pathways that regulate proliferation  survival  metastasis  and angiogenesis. because of its important role in these oncogenic processes  it represents a therapeutic target ripe for exploitation.
1978,hematopoietic stem cells and other hematopoietic cells show broad resistance to chemotherapeutic agents in vivo when overexpressing bcl-2.,objective. chemotherapeutic agents function by inducing apoptosis and their effectiveness depends on the balance of pro- and anti-apoptotic proteins in cells. due to the complicated interactions of the many proteins involved  it has been difficult to determine in tumors whether overexpression of single genes is prognostic for increased resistance. therefore  we studied the influence of bcl-2 overexpression on resistance to chemotherapeutics in a transgenic mouse system. this allowed us to study a wide variety of cells  including important but rare populations such as hematopoietic stem cells (hsc).methods. h2k-bcl-2 transgenic and wild-type (wt) mice were treated with several agents(5-fluoruracil  cyclophosphamide  and busulfan) to determine the contribution of increased amounts of bcl-2 to the response to these chemotherapeutics in vivo. populations were enumerated using flow cytometry. hsc were studied by facs purification and long-term reconstitution assays in vivo and resistance was confirmed by short-term proliferation assays with different amounts of chemotherapeutics in vitro. results. bcl-2 overexpression alone protects many cell types  though protection levels differ between populations and agents. however  even sensitive populations return to pretreatment levels faster in transgenic mice. bcl-2 overexpression also prevents the dramatic changes in hsc following 5-fu treatment (downregulation of c-kit  upregulation of lin  less efficient long-term reconstitution). in vitro studies directly demonstrate increased resistance of bcl-2 overexpressing hsc to chemotherapeutic agents. conclusions. increased expression of bcl-2 in hsc and their progeny endows these cells with broad resistance to chemotherapeutic agents. the ability to (differentially) regulate sensitivity to apoptosis of bystander and tumor cells is clinically important.
1980,regulation of autophagy by cytoplasmic p53,multiple cellular stressors  including activation of the tumour suppressor p53  can stimulate autophagy. here we show that deletion  depletion or inhibition of p53 can induce autophagy in human  mouse and nematode cells subjected to knockout  knockdown or pharmacological inhibition of p53. enhanced autophagy improved the survival of p53-deficient cancer cells under conditions of hypoxia and nutrient depletion  allowing them to maintain high atp levels. inhibition of p53 led to autophagy in enucleated cells  and cytoplasmic  not nuclear  p53 was able to repress the enhanced autophagy of p53−/− cells. many different inducers of autophagy (for example  starvation  rapamycin and toxins affecting the endoplasmic reticulum) stimulated proteasome-mediated degradation of p53 through a pathway relying on the e3 ubiquitin ligase hdm2. inhibition of p53 degradation prevented the activation of autophagy in several cell lines  in response to several distinct stimuli. these results provide evidence of a key signalling pathway that links autophagy to the cancer-associated dysregulation of p53.
1982,suppression of intestinal neoplasia by deletion of dnmt3b,aberrant gene silencing accompanied by dna methylation is associated with neoplastic progression in many tumors that also show global loss of dna methylation. using conditional inactivation of de novo methyltransferase dnmt3b in apc(min/+) mice  we demonstrate that the loss of dnmt3b has no impact on microadenoma formation  which is considered the earliest stage of intestinal tumor formation. nevertheless  we observed a significant decrease in the formation of macroscopic colonic adenomas. interestingly  many large adenomas showed regions with dnmt3b inactivation  indicating that dnmt3b is required for initial outgrowth of macroscopic adenomas but is not required for their maintenance. these results support a role for dnmt3b in the transition stage between microadenoma formation and macroscopic colonic tumor growth and further suggest that dnmt3b  and by extension de novo methylation  is not required for maintaining tumor growth after this transition stage has occurred.
1984,gemc1 is a topbp1 interacting protein required for chromosomal dna replication,many of the factors required for chromosomal dna replication have been identified in unicellular eukaryotes. however  dna replication is poorly understood in multicellular organisms. here  we report the identification of gemc1 (geminin coiled-coil containing protein 1)  a novel vertebrate protein required for chromosomal dna replication. gemc1 is highly conserved in vertebrates and is preferentially expressed in proliferating cells. using xenopus laevis egg extract we show that xenopus gemc1 (xgemc1) binds to the checkpoint and replication factor topbp1  which promotes binding of xgemc1 to chromatin during pre-replication complex (pre-rc) formation. we demonstrate that xgemc1 interacts directly with replication factors such as cdc45 and the kinase cdk2-cycline  through which it is heavily phosphorylated. phosphorylated xgemc1 stimulates initiation of dna replication  whereas depletion of xgemc1 prevents the onset of dna replication owing to the impairment of cdc45 loading onto chromatin. similarly  inhibition of gemc1 expression with morpholino and sirna oligos prevents dna replication in embryonic and somatic vertebrate cells. these data suggest that gemc1 promotes initiation of chromosomal dna replication in multicellular organisms by mediating topbp1- and cdk2-dependent recruitment of cdc45 onto replication origins.
1986,widespread and tissue specific age-related dna methylation changes in mice.,aberrant methylation of promoter cpg islands in cancer is associated with silencing of tumor-suppressor genes  and age-dependent hypermethylation in normal appearing mucosa may be a risk factor for human colon cancer. it is not known whether this age-related dna methylation phenomenon is specific to human tissues. we performed comprehensive dna methylation profiling of promoter regions in aging mouse intestine using methylated cpg island amplification in combination with microarray analysis. by comparing c57bl/6 mice at 3-mo-old versus 35-mo-old for 3627 detectable autosomal genes  we found 774 (21%) that showed increased methylation and 466 (13%) that showed decreased methylation. we used pyrosequencing to quantitatively validate the microarray data and confirmed linear age-related methylation changes for all 12 genomic regions examined. we then examined 11 changed genomic loci for age-related methylation in other tissues. of these  three of 11 showed similar changes in lung  seven of 11 changed in liver  and six of 11 changed in spleen  though to a lower degree than the changes seen in colon. there was partial conservation between age-related hypermethylation in human and mouse intestines  and polycomb targets in embryonic stem cells were enriched among the hypermethylated genes. our findings demonstrate a surprisingly high rate of hyper- and hypomethylation as a function of age in normal mouse small intestine tissues and a strong tissue-specificity to the process. we conclude that epigenetic deregulation is a common feature of aging in mammals.
1988,association between influenza vaccination and cardiovascular outcomes in high-risk patients: a meta-analysis.,importance among nontraditional cardiovascular risk factors  recent influenzalike infection is associated with fatal and nonfatal atherothrombotic events. objectives to determine if influenza vaccination is associated with prevention of cardiovascular events. data sources and study selection a systematic review and meta-analysis of medline (1946-august 2013)  embase (1947-august 2013)  and the cochrane library central register of controlled trials (inception-august 2013) for randomized clinical trials (rcts) comparing influenza vaccine vs placebo or control in patients at high risk of cardiovascular disease  reporting cardiovascular outcomes either as efficacy or safety events. data extraction and synthesis two investigators extracted data independently on trial design  baseline characteristics  outcomes  and safety events from published manuscripts and unpublished supplemental data. high-quality studies were considered those that described an appropriate method of randomization  allocation concealment  blinding  and completeness of follow-up. main outcomes and measures random-effects mantel-haenszel risk ratios (rrs) and 95% cis were derived for composite cardiovascular events  cardiovascular mortality  all-cause mortality  and individual cardiovascular events. analyses were stratified by subgroups of patients with and without a history of acute coronary syndrome (acs) within 1 year of randomization. results five published and 1 unpublished randomized clinical trials of 6735 patients (mean age  67 years; 51.3% women; 36.2% with a cardiac history; mean follow-up time  7.9 months) were included. influenza vaccine was associated with a lower risk of composite cardiovascular events (2.9% vs 4.7%; rr  0.64 [95% ci  0.48-0.86]  p = .003) in published trials. a treatment interaction was detected between patients with (rr  0.45 [95% ci  0.32-0.63]) and without (rr  0.94 [95% ci  0.55-1.61]) recent acs (p for interaction = .02). results were similar with the addition of unpublished data. conclusions and relevance in a meta-analysis of rcts  the use of influenza vaccine was associated with a lower risk of major adverse cardiovascular events. the greatest treatment effect was seen among the highest-risk patients with more active coronary disease. a large  adequately powered  multicenter trial is warranted to address these findings and assess individual cardiovascular end points.
1990,the ten-eleven translocation-2 (tet2) gene in hematopoiesis and hematopoietic diseases,ten-eleven translocation-2 (tet2) inactivation through loss-of-function mutation  deletion and idh1/2 (isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 and 2) gene mutation is a common event in myeloid and lymphoid malignancies. tet2 gene mutations similar to those observed in myeloid and lymphoid malignancies also accumulate with age in otherwise healthy subjects with clonal hematopoiesis. tet2 is one of the three proteins of the tet (ten-eleven translocation) family  which are evolutionarily conserved dioxygenases that catalyze the conversion of 5-methyl-cytosine (5-mc) to 5-hydroxymethyl-cytosine (5-hmc) and promote dna demethylation. tet dioxygenases require 2-oxoglutarate  oxygen and fe(ii) for their activity  which is enhanced in the presence of ascorbic acid. tet2 is the most expressed tet gene in the hematopoietic tissue  especially in hematopoietic stem cells. in addition to their hydroxylase activity  tet proteins recruit the o-linked β-d-n-acetylglucosamine (o-glcnac) transferase (ogt) enzyme to chromatin  which promotes post-transcriptional modifications of histones and facilitates gene expression. the tet2 level is regulated by interaction with idax  originating from tet2 gene fission during evolution  and by the microrna mir-22. tet2 has pleiotropic roles during hematopoiesis  including stem-cell self-renewal  lineage commitment and terminal differentiation of monocytes. analysis of tet2 knockout mice  which are viable and fertile  demonstrated that tet2 functions as a tumor suppressor whose haploinsufficiency initiates myeloid and lymphoid transformations. this review summarizes the recently identified tet2 physiological and pathological functions and discusses how this knowledge influences our therapeutic approaches in hematological malignancies and possibly other tumor types.
1992,enhancing circadian clock function in cancer cells inhibits tumor growth,background circadian clocks control cell cycle factors  and circadian disruption promotes cancer. to address whether enhancing circadian rhythmicity in tumor cells affects cell cycle progression and reduces proliferation  we compared growth and cell cycle events of b16 melanoma cells and tumors with either a functional or dysfunctional clock. results we found that clock genes were suppressed in b16 cells and tumors  but treatments inducing circadian rhythmicity  such as dexamethasone  forskolin and heat shock  triggered rhythmic clock and cell cycle gene expression  which resulted in fewer cells in s phase and more in g1 phase. accordingly  b16 proliferation in vitro and tumor growth in vivo was slowed down. similar effects were observed in human colon carcinoma hct-116 cells. notably  the effects of dexamethasone were not due to an increase in apoptosis nor to an enhancement of immune cell recruitment to the tumor. knocking down the essential clock gene bmal1 in b16 tumors prevented the effects of dexamethasone on tumor growth and cell cycle events. conclusions here we demonstrated that the effects of dexamethasone on cell cycle and tumor growth are mediated by the tumor-intrinsic circadian clock. thus  our work reveals that enhancing circadian clock function might represent a novel strategy to control cancer progression.
1994,over-expression of rcan1 causes down syndrome-like hippocampal deficits that alter learning and memory.,people with down syndrome (ds) exhibit abnormal brain structure. alterations affecting neurotransmission and signalling pathways that govern brain function are also evident. a large number of genes are simultaneously expressed at abnormal levels in ds; therefore  it is a challenge to determine which gene(s) contribute to specific abnormalities  and then identify the key molecular pathways involved. we generated rcan1-tg mice to study the consequences of rcan1 over-expression and investigate the contribution of rcan1 to the brain phenotype of ds. rcan1-tg mice exhibit structural brain abnormalities in those areas affected in ds. the volume and number of neurons within the hippocampus is reduced and this correlates with a defect in adult neurogenesis. the density of dendritic spines on rcan1-tg hippocampal pyramidal neurons is also reduced. deficits in hippocampal-dependent learning and short- and long-term memory are accompanied by a failure to maintain long-term potentiation (ltp) in hippocampal slices. in response to ltp induction  we observed diminished calcium transients and decreased phosphorylation of camkii and erk1/2-proteins that are essential for the maintenance of ltp and formation of memory. our data strongly suggest that rcan1 plays an important role in normal brain development and function and its up-regulation likely contributes to the neural deficits associated with ds.
1996,micromanagers of gene expression: the potentially widespread influence of metazoan micrornas,we propose that the microrna milieu  unique to each cell type  productively dampens the expression of thousands of mrnas and provides important context for the evolution of all metazoan mrna sequences. for genes that should not be expressed in a particular cell type  protein output is lowered to inconsequential levels. for other genes  dosage is adjusted in a manner that allows for customized expression in different cell types while achieving a more uniform level within each cell type. in these ways  the micrornas add an extensive layer of gene control that integrates with transcriptional and other regulatory processes to expand the complexity of metazoan gene expression.
1998,measurement and clinical monitoring of human lymphocyte clonality by massively parallel vdj pyrosequencing.,the complex repertoire of immune receptors generated by b and t cells enables recognition of diverse threats to the host organism. in this work  we show that massively parallel dna sequencing of rearranged immune receptor loci can provide direct detection and tracking of immune diversity and expanded clonal lymphocyte populations in physiological and pathological contexts. dna was isolated from blood and tissue samples  a series of redundant primers was used to amplify diverse dna rearrangements  and the resulting mixtures of barcoded amplicons were sequenced using long-read ultra deep sequencing. individual dna molecules were then characterized on the basis of dna segments that had been joined to make a functional (or nonfunctional) immune effector. current experimental designs can accommodate up to 150 samples in a single sequence run  with the depth of sequencing sufficient to identify stable and dynamic aspects of the immune repertoire in both normal and diseased circumstances. these data provide a high-resolution picture of immune spectra in normal individuals and in patients with hematological malignancies  illuminating  in the latter case  both the initial behavior of clonal tumor populations and the later suppression or re-emergence of such populations after treatment.
2000,serotonin and fluoxetine levels in plasma and platelets after fluoxetine treatment in depressive patients.,depression is a mood disorder characterized by complex alterations of neurotransmitters such as serotonin  norepinephrine  and dopamine. in particular  there is substantial evidence of abnormalities in serotonin neurotransmission. peripheral parameters of serotoninergic transmission  such as the 5-hydroxytryptamine content of plasma and platelets  have been used to identify biochemical alterations related to depression. in recent years  these parameters have also been used to examine the mechanism of action of antidepressive drugs such as the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. this study investigated the interaction between the plasma and platelet levels of fluoxetine and serotonin after fluoxetine administration to depressed patients. twelve patients affected by major depression (according to the dsm-iv criteria) received a single oral dose of fluoxetine in the morning: 5 mg in the first 5 days  10 mg from day 6 to day 10  and 20 mg from day 11 to day 40. blood samples were collected at 0  7  10  and 24 hours after drug administration on the day 1 of fluoxetine 5 mg and on the 1st and the 30th day of fluoxetine 20 mg (days 11 and 40 of treatment  respectively). plasma fluoxetine and serotonin levels increased after drug administration  reaching the highest levels on the 30th day of fluoxetine 20 mg. fluoxetine levels were also detectable in platelets  with a time variation similar to plasma values. platelet serotonin levels decreased after drug administration  and the lowest values were observed on the 30th day of fluoxetine 20 mg.
2002,role of the cxcr4/sdf-1 chemokine axis in circulating neutrophil homeostasis.,the bone marrow is the primary site for neutrophil production and release into the circulation. because the cxc chemokine receptor-4/stromal derived factor-1 (cxcr4/sdf-1) axis plays a central role in the interactions of hematopoietic stem cells  lymphocytes  and developing neutrophils in the marrow  we investigated whether reciprocal cxcr4-dependent mechanisms might be involved in neutrophil release and subsequent return to the marrow following circulation. neutralizing antibody to cxcr4 reduced marrow retention of infused neutrophils (45.7% +/- 0.5% to 6.9% +/- 0.5%) and was found to mobilize neutrophils from marrow (34.4% +/- 4.4%). neutrophil cxcr4 expression and sdf-1-induced calcium flux decreased with maturation and activation of the cells  corresponding to the decreased marrow homing associated with these characteristics in vivo. infusion of the inflammatory mediator and cxcr2 ligand kc led to mobilization of neutrophils from marrow by itself and was augmented 3-fold by low doses of cxcr4-blocking antibody that otherwise had no mobilizing effect. examination of kc and sdf-1 calcium signaling demonstrated that the effect of kc may  in part  be due to heterologous desensitization to sdf-1. these results suggest that the cxcr4/sdf-1 axis is critical in circulating neutrophil homeostasis and that it may participate in the rapid release of neutrophils from the marrow during inflammation through a novel interaction with inflammatory cxc chemokines.
2004,repeat expansion in the budding yeast ribosomal dna can occur independently of the canonical homologous recombination machinery,major eukaryotic genomic elements  including the ribosomal dna (rdna)  are composed of repeated sequences with well-defined copy numbers that must be maintained by regulated recombination. although mechanisms that instigate rdna recombination have been identified  none are directional and they therefore cannot explain precise repeat number control. here  we show that yeast lacking histone chaperone asf1 undergo reproducible rdna repeat expansions. these expansions do not require the replication fork blocking protein fob1 and are therefore independent of known rdna expansion mechanisms. we propose the existence of a regulated rdna repeat gain pathway that becomes constitutively active in asf1δ mutants. cells lacking asf1 accumulate rdna repeats with high fidelity in a processive manner across multiple cell divisions. the mechanism of repeat gain is dependent on highly repetitive sequence but  surprisingly  is independent of the homologous recombination proteins rad52  rad51 and rad59. the expansion mechanism is compromised by mutations that decrease the processivity of dna replication  which leads to progressive loss of rdna repeats. our data suggest that a novel mode of break-induced replication occurs in repetitive dna that is dependent on high homology but does not require the canonical homologous recombination machinery.
2006,the structure of informal care: are there differences by race?,this study investigated whether there are race differences in the structure of informal caregiving networks. data on 3 793 functionally impaired persons age 65 and over from the 1989 national long-term care survey were analyzed. the size of the total caregiver network and the unpaid network did not differ by race  but the likelihood of there being a non-immediate family member among unpaid caregivers was higher among disabled older blacks. these findings raise questions about whether race differences in nursing home utilization and paid long-term care services  documented in other studies  can be explained by differences in caregiving arrangements.
2008,tissue exit: a novel control point in the accumulation of antigen-specific cd8 t cells in the influenza a virus-infected lung.,memory/effector t cells efficiently migrate into extralymphoid tissues and sites of infection  providing immunosurveillance and a first line of defense against invading pathogens. even though it is a potential means to regulate the size  quality  and duration of a tissue infiltrate  t cell egress from infected tissues is poorly understood. using a mouse model of influenza a virus infection  we found that cd8 effector t cells egressed from the infected lung in a ccr7-dependent manner. in contrast  following antigen recognition  effector cd8 t cell egress decreased and ccr7 function was reduced in vivo and in vitro  indicating that the exit of cd8 t cells from infected tissues is tightly regulated. our data suggest that the regulation of t cell egress is a mechanism to retain antigen-specific effectors at the site of infection to promote viral clearance  while decreasing the numbers of bystander t cells and preventing overt inflammation.
2010,mri in the diagnosis of ms: a prospective study with comparison of clinical evaluation  evoked potentials  oligoclonal banding  and ct.,we compared the diagnostic capabilities of mri to ct  evoked potentials (ep)  and csf oligoclonal banding analysis in a prospective evaluation of 200 patients with suspected multiple sclerosis (ms). mri was the best method for demonstrating dissemination in space. an abnormal appropriate ep in monosymptomatic disease was usually supported by mri and csf analysis as being predictive of ms as a clinical diagnosis. a normal appropriate ep study was not satisfactory because mri and csf analysis often did not support a diagnosis of non-ms. when there is agreement between three of these paraclinical studies  the diagnosis of ms is probably unequivocal. for use in research studies  laboratory-supported definite ms (lsdms) could be diagnosed in 85 patients of the total 200 (42.5%)  in 19/38 (50%) of optic neuritis (on) patients  and in 24/52 (46%) of chronic progressive myelopathy (cpm) patients. mri was 100% successful in identifying patients who qualified for lsdms in the on and cpm groups. in a short follow-up (less than 1 year)  19/200 (10%) went on to develop clinically definite ms (cdms)  and mri predicted that diagnosis in 18/19 (95%). only long-term follow-up will show how well these studies and the category of lsdms predict the development of cdms. the clinical diagnosis of ms (cdms)  even though only 95% accurate  must remain the gold standard.
2012,a prospective study of plasma homocyst(e)ine and risk of myocardial infarction in us physicians.,objective to assess prospectively the risk of coronary heart disease associated with elevated plasma levels of homocyst(e)ine. design nested case-control study using prospectively collected blood samples. setting participants in the physicians' health study. participants a total of 14 916 male physicians  aged 40 to 84 years  with no prior myocardial infarction (mi) or stroke provided plasma samples at baseline and were followed up for 5 years. samples from 271 men who subsequently developed mi were analyzed for homocyst(e)ine levels together with paired controls  matched by age and smoking. main outcome measure acute mi or death due to coronary disease. results levels of homocyst(e)ine were higher in cases than in controls (11.1 +/- 4.0 [sd] vs 10.5 +/- 2.8 nmol/ml; p = .03). the difference was attributable to an excess of high values among men who later had mis. the relative risk for the highest 5% vs the bottom 90% of homocyst(e)ine levels was 3.1 (95% confidence interval  1.4 to 6.9; p = .005). after additional adjustment for diabetes  hypertension  aspirin assignment  quetelet's index  and total/high-density lipoprotein cholesterol  this relative risk was 3.4 (95% confidence interval  1.3 to 8.8) (p = .01). thirteen controls and 31 cases (11%) had values above the 95th percentile of the controls. conclusions moderately high levels of plasma homocyst(e)ine are associated with subsequent risk of mi independent of other coronary risk factors. because high levels can often be easily treated with vitamin supplements  homocyst(e)ine may be an independent  modifiable risk factor.
2014,relationship between reduced forced expiratory volume in one second and the risk of lung cancer: a systematic review and meta-analysis.,background individuals with severely impaired lung function have an increased risk of lung cancer. whether milder reductions in forced expiratory volume in 1 second (fev(1)) also increase the risk of lung cancer is controversial. moreover  there is little consensus on whether men and women have similar risks for lung cancer for similar decreases in fev(1). methods a search was conducted of pubmed and embase from january 1966 to january 2005 and studies that examined the relationship between fev1 and lung cancer were identified. the search was limited to studies that were population based  employed a prospective design  were large in size (> or = 5000 participants)  and adjusted for cigarette smoking status. results twenty eight abstracts were identified  six of which did not report fev1 and eight did not adjust for smoking. included in this report are four studies that reported fev1 in quintiles. the risk of lung cancer increased with decreasing fev1. compared with the highest quintile of fev1 (> 100% of predicted)  the lowest quintile of fev1 (< approximately 70% of predicted) was associated with a 2.23 fold (95% confidence interval (ci) 1.73 to 2.86) increase in the risk for lung cancer in men and a 3.97 fold increase in women (95% ci 1.93 to 8.25). even relatively small decrements in fev1 ( approximately 90% of predicted) increased the risk for lung cancer by 30% in men (95% ci 1.05 to 1.62) and 2.64 fold in women (95% ci 1.30 to 5.31). conclusion reduced fev1 is strongly associated with lung cancer. even a relatively modest reduction in fev1 is a significant predictor of lung cancer  especially among women.
2016,swi/snf-brg1 regulates self-renewal and occupies core pluripotency-related genes in embryonic stem cells.,the swi/snf-brg1 chromatin remodeling protein plays critical roles in cell-cycle control and differentiation through regulation of gene expression. loss of brg1 in mice results in early embryonic lethality  and recent studies have implicated a role for brg1 in somatic stem cell self-renewal and differentiation. however  little is known about brg1 function in preimplantation embryos and embryonic stem (es) cells. here we report that brg1 is required for es cell self-renewal and pluripotency. rna interference-mediated knockdown of brg1 in blastocysts caused aberrant expression of oct4 and nanog. in es cells  knockdown of brg1 resulted in phenotypic changes indicative of differentiation  downregulation of self-renewal and pluripotency genes (e.g.  oct4  sox2  sall4  rest)  and upregulation of differentiation genes. using genome-wide promoter analysis (chromatin immunoprecipitation) we found that brg1 occupied the promoters of key pluripotency-related genes  including oct4  sox2  nanog  sall4  rest  and polycomb group (pcg) proteins. moreover  brg1 co-occupied a subset of oct4  sox2  nanog  and pcg protein target genes. these results demonstrate an important role for brg1 in regulating self-renewal and pluripotency in es cells.
2018,targeting bromodomains: epigenetic readers of lysine acetylation,lysine acetylation is a key mechanism that regulates chromatin structure; aberrant acetylation levels have been linked to the development of several diseases. acetyl-lysine modifications create docking sites for bromodomains  which are small interaction modules found on diverse proteins  some of which have a key role in the acetylation-dependent assembly of transcriptional regulator complexes. these complexes can then initiate transcriptional programmes that result in phenotypic changes. the recent discovery of potent and highly specific inhibitors for the bet (bromodomain and extra-terminal) family of bromodomains has stimulated intensive research activity in diverse therapeutic areas  particularly in oncology  where bet proteins regulate the expression of key oncogenes and anti-apoptotic proteins. in addition  targeting bet bromodomains could hold potential for the treatment of inflammation and viral infection. here  we highlight recent progress in the development of bromodomain inhibitors  and their potential applications in drug discovery.
2020,physical activity at 36 years: patterns and childhood predictors in a longitudinal study.,objective the aim was to describe the sex and socioeconomic differences in patterns of physical activity at work and in leisure time of men and women aged 36 years  and to investigate factors in childhood and adolescence which predict high rates of participation in sports and recreational activities in later life. design data collected in childhood  adolescence  and at 36 years on members of a national prospective birth cohort study were used. setting the population sample was resident in england  scotland  and wales. subjects a stratified sample of about 3500 men and women was studied regularly from birth until 43 years. measurements and main results more men than women reported high rates of sports and recreational activities  gardening  and do-it-yourself. in contrast women reported higher rates of bicycling and walking. higher levels of education were associated with frequent participation in sports. individuals often engaged in one type of activity without necessarily engaging in other types. those who were most active in sport had been above average at sports in school  more outgoing socially in adolescence  had fewer health problems in childhood  were better educated  and had more mothers with a secondary education than those who were less active. conclusions studies that examine the relationship between physical activity and chronic disease should consider a broad range of pursuits rather than extrapolating from only one area of physical activity  and in their explanations should take account of the possible role of childhood characteristics. the findings suggest the importance of developing skills and habits in childhood as well as of encouraging healthier exercise habits in adults who may have had few opportunities or low motivation previously.
2022,adverse effects of excessive consumption of amino acids.,phenylalanine toxicity 158 developing the 0. -m ethylphenylalanine model. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 160 use of the a-methyl phenylalanine model in brain protein synthesis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 161 tyrosine toxicity 162 general nutritional observations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 162 factors affecting tissue concentrations of tyrosine . ... .. .. .. ...... . . . . . . .. . . 163 probable cause of tyrosine toxicity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 164 a new animal model for human tyrosinemia ii 165 tryptophan toxicity 165 general nutritional observations . .. ....... . ....... . .... . . .. . . . .. . .. . .. ..... ......... 165 factors affecting tryptophan toxicity . . . .. . . . . . . . .... . ........ 166 tryptophan and ruminant interstitial pulmonary emphysema and edema ..... . . . . . . . 167 histidine toxicity 168 general nutritional observations ...... ........ . . . . ..... . ...... .. . 168 metabolic aspects. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 169 alleviation of histidine toxicity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 170 methionine toxicity 171 general nutritional observations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 171 tissue damage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . 172 protective effect of glycine  serine  or retinol . . . .. ....... . ......... . ......... .. . .. . . ...... 172 chemical characteristics related to the toxicity of methionine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 173 damaging effects of methanethiol. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . 173 met�io !ine to�i.city in chickens 174 ethlonme toxicity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . 174
2024,multiple-dose activated charcoal in acute self-poisoning: a randomised controlled trial,background the case-fatality for intentional self-poisoning in the rural developing world is 10-50-fold higher than that in industrialised countries  mostly because of the use of highly toxic pesticides and plants. we therefore aimed to assess whether routine treatment with multiple-dose activated charcoal  to interrupt enterovascular or enterohepatic circulations  offers benefit compared with no charcoal in such an environment. methods we did an open-label  parallel group  randomised  controlled trial of six 50 g doses of activated charcoal at 4-h intervals versus no charcoal versus one 50 g dose of activated charcoal in three sri lankan hospitals. 4632 patients were randomised to receive no charcoal (n=1554)  one dose of charcoal (n=1545)  or six doses of charcoal (n=1533); outcomes were available for 4629 patients. 2338 (51%) individuals had ingested pesticides  whereas 1647 (36%) had ingested yellow oleander (thevetia peruviana) seeds. mortality was the primary outcome measure. analysis was by intention to treat. the trial is registered with controlled-trials.com as isrctn02920054. findings mortality did not differ between the groups. 97 (6.3%) of 1531 participants in the multiple-dose group died  compared with 105 (6.8%) of 1554 in the no charcoal group (adjusted odds ratio 0.96  95% ci 0.70-1.33). no differences were noted for patients who took particular poisons  were severely ill on admission  or who presented early. interpretation we cannot recommend the routine use of multiple-dose activated charcoal in rural asia pacific; although further studies of early charcoal administration might be useful  effective affordable treatments are urgently needed.
2026,trends in sugar-sweetened beverage consumption among youth and adults in the united states: 1999-2010.,background reducing sugar-sweetened beverage (ssb) consumption is a recommended strategy to promote optimal health. objective the objective was to describe trends in ssb consumption among youth and adults in the united states. design we analyzed energy intake from ssbs among 22 367 youth aged 2-19 y and 29 133 adults aged ≥20 y who participated in a 24-h dietary recall as part of nhanes  a nationally representative sample of the us population with a cross-sectional design  between 1999 and 2010. ssbs included soda  fruit drinks  sports and energy drinks  sweetened coffee and tea  and other sweetened beverages. patterns of ssb consumption  including location of consumption and meal occasion associated with consumption  were also examined. results in 2009-2010  youth consumed a mean (±se) of 155 ± 7 kcal/d from ssbs  and adults consumed an age-adjusted mean (±se) of 151 ± 5 kcal/d from ssbs--a decrease from 1999 to 2000 of 68 kcal/d and 45 kcal/d  respectively (p-trend < 0.001 for each). in 2009-2010  ssbs contributed 8.0% ± 0.4% and 6.9% ± 0.2% of daily energy intake among youth and adults  respectively  which reflected a decrease compared with 1999-2000 (p-trend < 0.001 for both). decreases in ssb consumption  both in the home and away from home and also with both meals and snacks  occurred over the 12-y study duration (p-trend < 0.01 for each). conclusion a decrease in ssb consumption among youth and adults in the united states was observed between 1999 and 2010.
2028,all dosage compensation is local: gene-by-gene regulation of sex-biased expression on the chicken z chromosome,recent reports have suggested that birds lack a mechanism of wholesale dosage compensation for the z sex chromosome. this discovery was rather unexpected  as all other animals investigated with chromosomal mechanisms of sex determination have some method to counteract the effects of gene dosage of the dominant sex chromosome in males and females. despite the lack of a global mechanism of avian dosage compensation  the pattern of gene expression difference between males and females varies a great deal for individual z-linked genes. this suggests that some genes may be individually dosage compensated  and that some less-than-global pattern of dosage compensation  such as local or temporal  exists on the avian z chromosome. we used global gene expression profiling in males and females for both somatic and gonadal tissue at several time points in the life cycle of the chicken to assess the pattern of sex-biased gene expression on the z chromosome. average fold-change between males and females varied somewhat among tissue time-point combinations  with embryonic brain samples having the smallest gene dosage effects  and adult gonadal tissue having the largest degree of male bias. overall  there were no neighborhoods of overall dosage compensation along the z. taken together  this suggests that dosage compensation is regulated on the z chromosome entirely on a gene-by-gene level  and can vary during the life cycle and by tissue type. this regulation may be an indication of how critical a given gene's functionality is  as the expression level for essential genes will be tightly regulated in order to avoid perturbing important pathways and networks with differential expression levels in males and females.
2030,disruption of the 5s rnp–mdm2 interaction significantly improves the erythroid defect in a mouse model for diamond-blackfan anemia,diamond-blackfan anemia (dba) is a congenital erythroid hypoplasia caused by haploinsufficiency of genes encoding ribosomal proteins (rps). perturbed ribosome biogenesis in dba has been shown to induce a p53-mediated ribosomal stress response. however  the mechanisms of p53 activation and its relevance for the erythroid defect remain elusive. previous studies have indicated that activation of p53 is caused by the inhibition of mouse double minute 2 (mdm2)  the main negative regulator of p53  by the 5s ribonucleoprotein particle (rnp). meanwhile  it is not clear whether this mechanism solely mediates the p53-dependent component found in dba. to approach this question  we crossed our mouse model for rps19-deficient dba with mdm2c305f knock-in mice that have a disrupted 5s rnp–mdm2 interaction. upon induction of the rps19 deficiency  mdm2c305f reversed the p53 response and improved expansion of hematopoietic progenitors in vitro  and ameliorated the anemia in vivo. unexpectedly  disruption of the 5s rnp–mdm2 interaction also led to selective defect in erythropoiesis. our findings highlight the sensitivity of erythroid progenitor cells to aberrations in p53 homeostasis mediated by the 5s rnp–mdm2 interaction. finally  we provide evidence indicating that physiological activation of the 5s rnp-mdm2-p53 pathway may contribute to functional decline of the hematopoietic system in a cell-autonomous manner over time.
2032,ligand-target interactions: what can we learn from nmr?,the conformation of the ligand in complex with a macromolecular target can be studied by nuclear magnetic resonance (nmr) in solution for both tightly and weakly forming complexes. in the weak binding regime (k(off) > 10(4) hz)  the structure of the bound ligand is accessible also for very large complexes (>100 kda)  which are not amenable to nmr studies in the tight binding regime. here i review the state-of-the-art nmr methodology used for screening ligands and for the structural investigation of bound ligand conformations  in both tight and weak binding regimes. the advantages and disadvantages of each approach are critically described. the nmr methodology used to investigate transiently forming complexes has expanded considerably in the past few years  opening new possibilities for a detailed description of ligand-target interactions. novel methods for the determination of the bound ligand conformation  in particular transferred cross-correlated relaxation  are thoroughly reviewed  and their advantages with respect to established methodology are discussed  using the epothilone-tubulin complex as a primary example.
2034,inhibition of apical sodium-dependent bile acid transporter as a novel treatment for diabetes.,bile acids are recognized as metabolic modulators. the present study was aimed at evaluating the effects of a potent asbt inhibitor (264w94)  which blocks intestinal absorption of bile acids  on glucose homeostasis in zucker diabetic fatty (zdf) rats. oral administration of 264w94 for two wk increased fecal bile acid concentrations and elevated non-fasting plasma total glp-1. treatment of 264w94 significantly decreased hba1c and glucose  and prevented the drop of insulin levels typical of zdf rats in a dose-dependent manner. an oral glucose tolerance test revealed up to two-fold increase in plasma total glp-1 and three-fold increase in insulin in 264w94 treated zdf rats at doses sufficient to achieve glycemic control. tissue mrna analysis indicated a decrease in farnesoid x receptor (fxr) activation in small intestines and the liver but co-administration of a fxr agonist (gw4064) did not attenuate 264w94 induced glucose lowering effects. in summary  our results demonstrate that inhibition of asbt increases bile acids in the distal intestine  promotes glp-1 release and may offer a new therapeutic strategy for type 2 diabetes mellitus.
2036,whole-genome fingerprint of the dna methylome during human b cell differentiation,we analyzed the dna methylome of ten subpopulations spanning the entire b cell differentiation program by whole-genome bisulfite sequencing and high-density microarrays. we observed that non-cpg methylation disappeared upon b cell commitment  whereas cpg methylation changed extensively during b cell maturation  showing an accumulative pattern and affecting around 30% of all measured cpg sites. early differentiation stages mainly displayed enhancer demethylation  which was associated with upregulation of key b cell transcription factors and affected multiple genes involved in b cell biology. late differentiation stages  in contrast  showed extensive demethylation of heterochromatin and methylation gain at polycomb-repressed areas  and genes with apparent functional impact in b cells were not affected. this signature  which has previously been linked to aging and cancer  was particularly widespread in mature cells with an extended lifespan. comparing b cell neoplasms with their normal counterparts  we determined that they frequently acquire methylation changes in regions already undergoing dynamic methylation during normal b cell differentiation.
2038,platelet-derived endothelial cell growth factor expression correlates with tumour angiogenesis and prognosis in non-small-cell lung cancer.,angiogenesis is a recently described prognostic factor in non-small-cell lung cancer. platelet-derived endothelial cell growth factor (pd-ecgf)  shown to be the enzyme thymidine phosphorylase (tp)  induces angiogenesis in vitro and in vivo. high intracellular levels of the enzyme are associated with increased chemosensitivity to pyrimidine antimetabolites. pd-ecgf/tp expression was evaluated immunohistochemically in surgically resected specimens from 107 patients with operable non-small-cell lung cancer using the p-gf 44c monoclonal antibody. high expression of pd-ecgf/tp was found in 25% of cases and was associated with high vascular grade (p = 0.01). fourteen of 32 (44%) high vascular grade tumours showed a positive reactivity for pd-ecgf/tp vs 13/75 (17%) of low/medium vascular grade. positive expression was observed more frequently in t2-staged cases than in t1 (p = 0.04). while overall survival was not affected (p = 0.09)  subset analysis revealed that node-negative patients with positive pd-ecgf/tp expression had a worse prognosis (p = 0.04). the results suggest that pd-ecgf/tp may be an important molecule involved in angiogenesis in non-small-cell lung cancer. up-regulation of the enzyme defines a more aggressive tumour phenotype in patients with node-negative disease. assessment of vascular grade and pd-ecgf/tp expression should be taken into account in the design of randomized trials assessing the role of adjuvant chemotherapy in non-small-cell lung cancer.
2040,a load driver device for engineering modularity in biological networks,the behavior of gene modules in complex synthetic circuits is often unpredictable. after joining modules to create a circuit  downstream elements (such as binding sites for a regulatory protein) apply a load to upstream modules that can negatively affect circuit function. here we devised a genetic device named a load driver that mitigates the impact of load on circuit function  and we demonstrate its behavior in saccharomyces cerevisiae. the load driver implements the design principle of timescale separation: inclusion of the load driver's fast phosphotransfer processes restores the capability of a slower transcriptional circuit to respond to time-varying input signals even in the presence of substantial load. without the load driver  we observed circuit behavior that suffered from a 76% delay in response time and a 25% decrease in system bandwidth due to load. with the addition of a load driver  circuit performance was almost completely restored. load drivers will serve as fundamental building blocks in the creation of complex  higher-level genetic circuits.
2042,passive surveillance for i. scapularis ticks: enhanced analysis for early detection of emerging lyme disease risk,abstract lyme disease (ld) is emerging in canada because of the northward expansion of the geographic range of the tick vector ixodes scapularis (say). early detection of emerging areas of ld risk is critical to public health responses  but the methods to do so on a local scale are lacking. passive tick surveillance has operated in canada since 1990 but this method lacks specificity for identifying areas where tick populations are established because of dispersion of ticks from established ld risk areas by migratory birds. using data from 70 field sites in quebec visited previously  we developed a logistic regression model for estimating the risk of i. scapularis population establishment based on the number of ticks submitted in passive surveillance and a model-derived environmental suitability index. sensitivity-specificity plots were used to select an optimal threshold value of the linear predictor from the model as the signal for tick population establishment. this value was used to produce an “alert map” identifying areas where the passive surveillance data suggested ticks were establishing in quebec. alert map predictions were validated by field surveillance at 76 sites: the prevalence of established i. scapularis populations was significantly greater in areas predicted as high-risk by the alert map (29 out of 48) than in areas predicted as moderate-risk (4 out of 30) (p < 0.001). this study suggests that alert maps created using this approach can provide a usefully rapid and accurate tool for early identification of emerging areas of ld risk at a geographic scale appropriate for local disease control and prevention activities.
2044,skeletal myogenic progenitors originating from embryonic dorsal aorta coexpress endothelial and myogenic markers and contribute to postnatal muscle growth and regeneration,skeletal muscle in vertebrates is derived from somites  epithelial structures of the paraxial mesoderm  yet many unrelated reports describe the occasional appearance of myogenic cells from tissues of nonsomite origin  suggesting either transdifferentiation or the persistence of a multipotent progenitor. here  we show that clonable skeletal myogenic cells are present in the embryonic dorsal aorta of mouse embryos. this finding is based on a detailed clonal analysis of different tissue anlagen at various developmental stages. in vitro  these myogenic cells show the same morphology as satellite cells derived from adult skeletal muscle  and express a number of myogenic and endothelial markers. surprisingly  the latter are also expressed by adult satellite cells. furthermore  it is possible to clone myogenic cells from limbs of mutant c-met-/- embryos  which lack appendicular muscles  but have a normal vascular system. upon transplantation  aorta-derived myogenic cells participate in postnatal muscle growth and regeneration  and fuse with resident satellite cells. the potential of the vascular system to generate skeletal muscle cells may explain observations of nonsomite skeletal myogenesis and raises the possibility that a subset of satellite cells may derive from the vascular system.
2046,accelerating policy decisions to adopt haemophilus influenzae type b vaccine: a global  multivariable analysis,background adoption of new and underutilized vaccines by national immunization programs is an essential step towards reducing child mortality. policy decisions to adopt new vaccines in high mortality countries often lag behind decisions in high-income countries. using the case of haemophilus influenzae type b (hib) vaccine  this paper endeavors to explain these delays through the analysis of country-level economic  epidemiological  programmatic and policy-related factors  as well as the role of the global alliance for vaccines and immunisation (gavi alliance). methods and findings data for 147 countries from 1990 to 2007 were analyzed in accelerated failure time models to identify factors that are associated with the time to decision to adopt hib vaccine. in multivariable models that control for gross national income  region  and burden of hib disease  the receipt of gavi support speeded the time to decision by a factor of 0.37 (95% ci 0.18-0.76)  or 63%. the presence of two or more neighboring country adopters accelerated decisions to adopt by a factor of 0.50 (95% ci 0.33-0.75). for each 1% increase in vaccine price  decisions to adopt are delayed by a factor of 1.02 (95% ci 1.00-1.04). global recommendations and local studies were not associated with time to decision. conclusions this study substantiates previous findings related to vaccine price and presents new evidence to suggest that gavi eligibility is associated with accelerated decisions to adopt hib vaccine. the influence of neighboring country decisions was also highly significant  suggesting that approaches to support the adoption of new vaccines should consider supply- and demand-side factors.
2048,long-term effects of continuing adjuvant tamoxifen to 10 years versus stopping at 5 years after diagnosis of oestrogen receptor-positive breast cancer: atlas  a randomised trial,background for women with oestrogen receptor (er)-positive early breast cancer  treatment with tamoxifen for 5 years substantially reduces the breast cancer mortality rate throughout the first 15 years after diagnosis. we aimed to assess the further effects of continuing tamoxifen to 10 years instead of stopping at 5 years. methods in the worldwide adjuvant tamoxifen: longer against shorter (atlas) trial  12 894 women with early breast cancer who had completed 5 years of treatment with tamoxifen were randomly allocated to continue tamoxifen to 10 years or stop at 5 years (open control). allocation (1:1) was by central computer  using minimisation. after entry (between 1996 and 2005)  yearly follow-up forms recorded any recurrence  second cancer  hospital admission  or death. we report effects on breast cancer outcomes among the 6846 women with er-positive disease  and side-effects among all women (with positive  negative  or unknown er status). long-term follow-up still continues. this study is registered  number isrctn19652633. findings among women with er-positive disease  allocation to continue tamoxifen reduced the risk of breast cancer recurrence (617 recurrences in 3428 women allocated to continue vs 711 in 3418 controls  p=0·002)  reduced breast cancer mortality (331 deaths vs 397 deaths  p=0·01)  and reduced overall mortality (639 deaths vs 722 deaths  p=0·01). the reductions in adverse breast cancer outcomes appeared to be less extreme before than after year 10 (recurrence rate ratio [rr] 0·90 [95% ci 0·79–1·02] during years 5–9 and 0·75 [0·62–0·90] in later years; breast cancer mortality rr 0·97 [0·79–1·18] during years 5–9 and 0·71 [0·58–0·88] in later years). the cumulative risk of recurrence during years 5–14 was 21·4% for women allocated to continue versus 25·1% for controls; breast cancer mortality during years 5–14 was 12·2% for women allocated to continue versus 15·0% for controls (absolute mortality reduction 2·8%). treatment allocation seemed to have no effect on breast cancer outcome among 1248 women with er-negative disease  and an intermediate effect among 4800 women with unknown er status. among all 12 894 women  mortality without recurrence from causes other than breast cancer was little affected (691 deaths without recurrence in 6454 women allocated to continue versus 679 deaths in 6440 controls; rr 0·99 [0·89–1·10]; p=0·84). for the incidence (hospitalisation or death) rates of specific diseases  rrs were as follows: pulmonary embolus 1·87 (95% ci 1·13–3·07  p=0·01 [including 0·2% mortality in both treatment groups])  stroke 1·06 (0·83–1·36)  ischaemic heart disease 0·76 (0·60–0·95  p=0·02)  and endometrial cancer 1·74 (1·30–2·34  p=0·0002). the cumulative risk of endometrial cancer during years 5–14 was 3·1% (mortality 0·4%) for women allocated to continue versus 1·6% (mortality 0·2%) for controls (absolute mortality increase 0·2%). interpretation for women with er-positive disease  continuing tamoxifen to 10 years rather than stopping at 5 years produces a further reduction in recurrence and mortality  particularly after year 10. these results  taken together with results from previous trials of 5 years of tamoxifen treatment versus none  suggest that 10 years of tamoxifen treatment can approximately halve breast cancer mortality during the second decade after diagnosis. funding cancer research uk  uk medical research council  astrazeneca uk  us army  eu-biomed.
2050,six-year follow-up of impact of co-proxamol withdrawal in england and wales on prescribing and deaths: time-series study,background the analgesic co-proxamol (paracetamol/dextropropoxyphene combination) has been widely involved in fatal poisoning. concerns about its safety/effectiveness profile and widespread use for suicidal poisoning prompted its withdrawal in the uk in 2005  with partial withdrawal between 2005 and 2007  and full withdrawal in 2008. our objective in this study was to assess the association between co-proxamol withdrawal and prescribing and deaths in england and wales in 2005-2010 compared with 1998-2004  including estimation of possible substitution effects by other analgesics. methods and findings we obtained prescribing data from the nhs health and social care information centre (england) and prescribing services partneriaeth cydwasanaethau gig cymru (wales)  and mortality data from the office for national statistics. we carried out an interrupted time-series analysis of prescribing and deaths (suicide  open verdicts  accidental poisonings) involving single analgesics. the reduction in prescribing of co-proxamol following its withdrawal in 2005 was accompanied by increases in prescribing of several other analgesics (co-codamol  paracetamol  codeine  co-dydramol  tramadol  oxycodone  and morphine) during 2005-2010 compared with 1998-2004. these changes were associated with major reductions in deaths due to poisoning with co-proxamol receiving verdicts of suicide and undetermined cause of -21 deaths (95% ci -34 to -8) per quarter  equating to approximately 500 fewer suicide deaths (-61%) over the 6 years 2005-2010  and -25 deaths (95% ci -38 to -12) per quarter  equating to 600 fewer deaths (-62%) when accidental poisoning deaths were included. there was little observed change in deaths involving other analgesics  apart from an increase in oxycodone poisonings  but numbers were small. limitations were that the study was based on deaths involving single drugs alone and changes in deaths involving prescribed morphine could not be assessed. conclusions during the 6 years following the withdrawal of co-proxamol in the uk  there was a major reduction in poisoning deaths involving this drug  without apparent significant increase in deaths involving other analgesics.
2052,plasma soluble corin and n-terminal pro-atrial natriuretic peptide levels in pregnancy induced hypertension.,objective one of the theories involved in the pathogenesis of pregnancy induced hypertension involves salt and water retention. we aimed to measure the proenzyme convertase corin  responsible for pro-atrial natriuretic peptide (anp) cleavage to active anp  in plasma of hypertensive pregnant females. study design sixty pregnant females suffering from pregnancy induced hypertension in second and third trimesters of pregnancy were compared to twenty eight healthy pregnant females of the same gestational period. concomitant urine and plasma samples were collected for the determination of some biochemical parameters. plasma soluble corin and n-terminal (nt) pro-anp (1-98) values were determined in both groups using enzyme immunoassays. results plasma soluble corin mean value was significantly higher in the patient group compared to the control group. upon dividing the patient group according to blood pressure  plasma nt pro-anp showed significantly higher mean value in the group with blood pressure⩾140/90mmhg compared to the group with blood pressure<140/90mmhg and control group. conclusions high plasma soluble corin and nt pro-anp values in hypertensive pregnant females particularly those with blood pressure⩾140/90mmhg speculates an anp receptor/ post receptor signaling defect  which would aggravate the pregnancy induced hypertensive state.
2054,performance of an abbreviated version of the lubben social network scale among three european community-dwelling older adult populations.,purpose there is a need for valid and reliable short scales that can be used to assess social networks and social supports and to screen for social isolation in older persons. design and methods the present study is a cross-national and cross-cultural evaluation of the performance of an abbreviated version of the lubben social network scale (lsns-6)  which was used to screen for social isolation among community-dwelling older adult populations in three european countries. based on the concept of lack of redundancy of social ties we defined clinical cut-points of the lsns-6 for identifying persons deemed at risk for social isolation. results among all three samples  the lsns-6 and two subscales (family and friends) demonstrated high levels of internal consistency  stable factor structures  and high correlations with criterion variables. the proposed clinical cut-points showed good convergent validity  and classified 20% of the respondents in hamburg  11% of those in solothurn (switzerland)  and 15% of those in london as at risk for social isolation. implications we conclude that abbreviated scales such as the lsns-6 should be considered for inclusion in practice protocols of gerontological practitioners. screening older persons based on the lsns-6 provides quantitative information on their family and friendship ties  and identifies persons at increased risk for social isolation who might benefit from in-depth assessment and targeted interventions.
2056,ribosome-mediated specificity in hox mrna translation and vertebrate tissue patterning,historically  the ribosome has been viewed as a complex ribozyme with constitutive rather than regulatory capacity in mrna translation. here we identify mutations of the ribosomal protein l38 (rpl38) gene in mice exhibiting surprising tissue-specific patterning defects  including pronounced homeotic transformations of the axial skeleton. in rpl38 mutant embryos  global protein synthesis is unchanged; however the translation of a select subset of homeobox mrnas is perturbed. our data reveal that rpl38 facilitates 80s complex formation on these mrnas as a regulatory component of the ribosome to confer transcript-specific translational control. we further show that rpl38 expression is markedly enriched in regions of the embryo where loss-of-function phenotypes occur. unexpectedly  a ribosomal protein (rp) expression screen reveals dynamic regulation of individual rps within the vertebrate embryo. collectively  these findings suggest that rp activity may be highly regulated to impart a new layer of specificity in the control of gene expression and mammalian development.
2058,myeloperoxidase: friend and foe.,neutrophilic polymorphonuclear leukocytes (neutrophils) are highly specialized for their primary function  the phagocytosis and destruction of microorganisms. when coated with opsonins (generally complement and/or antibody)  microorganisms bind to specific receptors on the surface of the phagocyte and invagination of the cell membrane occurs with the incorporation of the microorganism into an intracellular phagosome. there follows a burst of oxygen consumption  and much  if not all  of the extra oxygen consumed is converted to highly reactive oxygen species. in addition  the cytoplasmic granules discharge their contents into the phagosome  and death of the ingested microorganism soon follows. among the antimicrobial systems formed in the phagosome is one consisting of myeloperoxidase (mpo)  released into the phagosome during the degranulation process  hydrogen peroxide (h2o2)  formed by the respiratory burst and a halide  particularly chloride. the initial product of the mpo-h2o2-chloride system is hypochlorous acid  and subsequent formation of chlorine  chloramines  hydroxyl radicals  singlet oxygen  and ozone has been proposed. these same toxic agents can be released to the outside of the cell  where they may attack normal tissue and thus contribute to the pathogenesis of disease. this review will consider the potential sources of h2o2 for the mpo-h2o2-halide system; the toxic products of the mpo system; the evidence for mpo involvement in the microbicidal activity of neutrophils; the involvement of mpo-independent antimicrobial systems; and the role of the mpo system in tissue injury. it is concluded that the mpo system plays an important role in the microbicidal activity of phagocytes.
2060,echocardiographic evidence of innate aortopathy in the human intracranial aneurysm,background intracranial aneurysm (ia) is significantly more prevalent in patients with coarctation of the aorta or bicuspid aortic valve than in the general population  suggesting a common pathophysiology connecting ia and aortopathy. here  we analyzed echocardiographic aortic root dimension (ard) in patients with ia to confirm this possibility. methods from january 2008 to december 2010  260 consecutive patients with ia who were admitted to our institution for coil embolization or for acute stroke management and who also underwent echocardiography were enrolled. we hypothesized that patients with large  ruptured  or multiple ias are more likely to harbor co-prevalent aortopathy as measured by ard compared to patients with small  isolated  unruptured ias. eccentric group was defined as patients aged <55 years with at least one ruptured aneurysm  an aneurysm ≥7 mm in size  or multiple aneurysms; the remainder was classified into a non-eccentric group. clinical  angiographic  and echocardiographic findings of the two groups were compared. results ard was significantly larger in the eccentric group than in the non-eccentric group (p = 0.049)  and the difference was confirmed by multivariable analysis (p = 0.02). subgroup analysis of patients aged <55 years showed similar result for ard (p = 0.03)  whereas hypertension was more associated with the non-eccentric group (p = 0.01). in addition  height was inversely related to aneurysm size after adjustment for age  sex  weight  ard  smoking status  and number of aneurysms (p = 0.004). conclusions a certain group of ia patients share a common intrinsic wall defect with aortopathy. shared neural crest cell origin may give rise to this phenomenon.
2062,the dna polymerase λ is required for the repair of non-compatible dna double strand breaks by nhej in mammalian cells,dna polymerase lambda (polλ) is a recently identified dna polymerase whose cellular function remains elusive. here we show  that polλ participates at the molecular level in a chromosomal context  in the repair of dna double strand breaks (dsb) via non-homologous end joining (nhej) in mammalian cells. the expression of a catalytically inactive form of polλ (polλdn) decreases the frequency of nhej events in response to i-sce-i-induced dsb whereas inactivated forms of its homologues polβ and polμ do not. only events requiring dna end processing before ligation are affected; this defect is associated with large deletions arising in the vicinity of the induced dsb. furthermore  polλdn-expressing cells exhibit increased sensitization and genomic instability in response to ionizing radiation similar to that of nhej-defective cells. our data support a requirement for polλ in repairing a subset of dsb in genomic dna  thereby contributing to the maintenance of genetic stability mediated by the nhej pathway.
2064,keratin-dependent regulation of aire and gene expression in skin tumor keratinocytes,expression of the intermediate filament protein keratin 17 (k17) is robustly upregulated in inflammatory skin diseases and in many tumors originating in stratified and pseudostratified epithelia. we report that autoimmune regulator (aire)  a transcriptional regulator  is inducibly expressed in human and mouse tumor keratinocytes in a k17-dependent manner and is required for timely onset of gli2-induced skin tumorigenesis in mice. the induction of aire mrna in keratinocytes depends on a functional interaction between k17 and the heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein hnrnp k. further  k17 colocalizes with aire protein in the nucleus of tumor-prone keratinocytes  and each factor is bound to a specific promoter region featuring an nf-κb consensus sequence in a relevant subset of k17- and aire-dependent proinflammatory genes. these findings provide radically new insight into keratin intermediate filament and aire function  along with a molecular basis for the k17-dependent amplification of inflammatory and immune responses in diseased epithelia.
2066,effectiveness of a diabetes education and self management programme (desmond) for people with newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes mellitus: three year follow-up of a cluster randomised controlled trial in primary care,objective to measure whether the benefits of a single education and self management structured programme for people with newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes mellitus are sustained at three years. design three year follow-up of a multicentre cluster randomised controlled trial in primary care  with randomisation at practice level. setting 207 general practices in 13 primary care sites in the united kingdom. participants 731 of the 824 participants included in the original trial were eligible for follow-up. biomedical data were collected on 604 (82.6%) and questionnaire data on 513 (70.1%) participants. intervention a structured group education programme for six hours delivered in the community by two trained healthcare professional educators compared with usual care. main outcome measures the primary outcome was glycated haemoglobin (hba(1c)) levels. the secondary outcomes were blood pressure  weight  blood lipid levels  smoking status  physical activity  quality of life  beliefs about illness  depression  emotional impact of diabetes  and drug use at three years. results hba(1c) levels at three years had decreased in both groups. after adjusting for baseline and cluster the difference was not significant (difference -0.02  95% confidence interval -0.22 to 0.17). the groups did not differ for the other biomedical and lifestyle outcomes and drug use. the significant benefits in the intervention group across four out of five health beliefs seen at 12 months were sustained at three years (p<0.01). depression scores and quality of life did not differ at three years. conclusion a single programme for people with newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes mellitus showed no difference in biomedical or lifestyle outcomes at three years although there were sustained improvements in some illness beliefs. trial registration current controlled trials isrctn17844016.
2068,selective inhibition of ras-dependent cell growth by farnesylthiosalisylic acid.,s-trans trans-farnesylthiosalicylic acid (fts) is a novel farnesylated rigid carboxylic acid derivative. in cell-free systems  it acts as a potent competitive inhibitor (ki = 2.6 microm) of the enzyme prenylated protein methyltransferase (ppmtase)  which methylates the carboxyl-terminal s-prenylcysteine in a large number of prenylated proteins including ras. in such systems  fts inhibits ras methylation but not ras farnesylation. inhibition of the ppmtase by fts in homogenates or membranes of a variety of tissues and cell lines is inferred from a block in the methylation of exogenously added substrates such as n-acetyl-s-trans trans-farnesyl-l-cysteine and of endogenous substrates including small gtp-binding proteins. fts can also inhibit methylation of these proteins in intact cells (e.g. in rat-1 fibroblasts  ras-transformed rat-1  and b16 melanoma cells). unlike in cell-free systems  however  relatively high concentrations of fts (50-100 microm) are required for partial blocking (10-40%) of protein methylation in the intact cells. thus  fts is a weak inhibitor of methylation in intact cells. because methylation is the last step in the processing of ras and related proteins  fts is not likely to affect steps that precede it  e.g. protein prenylation. this may explain why the growth and gross morphology of a variety of cultured cell types (including chinese hamster ovary  nih3t3  rat1  b16 melanoma  and pc12) is not affected by up to 25 microm fts and is consistent with the observed lack of fts-induced cytotoxicity. nevertheless  fts reduces the levels of ras in cell membranes and can inhibit ras-dependent cell growth in vitro  independently of methylation. it inhibits the growth of human ha-ras-transformed cells (ej cells) and reverses their transformed morphology in a dose-dependent manner (0.1-10 microm). the drug does not interfere with the growth of cells transformed by v-raf or t-antigen but inhibits the growth of erbb2-transformed cells and blocks the mitogenic effects of epidermal and basic fibroblast growth factors  thus implying its selectivity toward ras growth signaling  possibly via modulation of ras-raf communication. taken together  the results raise the possibility that fts may specifically interfere with the interaction of ras with a farnesylcysteine recognition domain in the cell membrane.(abstract truncated at 400 words)
2070,activation of fast skeletal muscle troponin as a potential therapeutic approach for treating neuromuscular diseases,limited neural input results in muscle weakness in neuromuscular disease because of a reduction in the density of muscle innervation  the rate of neuromuscular junction activation or the efficiency of synaptic transmission. we developed a small-molecule fast-skeletal-troponin activator  ck-2017357  as a means to increase muscle strength by amplifying the response of muscle when neural input is otherwise diminished secondary to neuromuscular disease. binding selectively to the fast-skeletal-troponin complex  ck-2017357 slows the rate of calcium release from troponin c and sensitizes muscle to calcium. as a consequence  the force-calcium relationship of muscle fibers shifts leftwards  as does the force-frequency relationship of a nerve-muscle pair  so that ck-2017357 increases the production of muscle force in situ at sub-maximal nerve stimulation rates. notably  we show that sensitization of the fast-skeletal-troponin complex to calcium improves muscle force and grip strength immediately after administration of single doses of ck-2017357 in a model of the neuromuscular disease myasthenia gravis. troponin activation may provide a new therapeutic approach to improve physical activity in diseases where neuromuscular function is compromised.
2072,calreticulin exposure dictates the immunogenicity of cancer cell death,anthracyclin-treated tumor cells are particularly effective in eliciting an anticancer immune response  whereas other dna-damaging agents such as etoposide and mitomycin c do not induce immunogenic cell death. here we show that anthracyclins induce the rapid  preapoptotic translocation of calreticulin (crt) to the cell surface. blockade or knockdown of crt suppressed the phagocytosis of anthracyclin-treated tumor cells by dendritic cells and abolished their immunogenicity in mice. the anthracyclin-induced crt translocation was mimicked by inhibition of the protein phosphatase 1/gadd34 complex. administration of recombinant crt or inhibitors of protein phosphatase 1/gadd34 restored the immunogenicity of cell death elicited by etoposide and mitomycin c  and enhanced their antitumor effects in vivo. these data identify crt as a key feature determining anticancer immune responses and delineate a possible strategy for immunogenic chemotherapy.
2074,a genome-wide sirna screen reveals diverse cellular processes and pathways that mediate genome stability.,signaling pathways that respond to dna damage are essential for the maintenance of genome stability and are linked to many diseases  including cancer. here  a genome-wide sirna screen was employed to identify additional genes involved in genome stabilization by monitoring phosphorylation of the histone variant h2ax  an early mark of dna damage. we identified hundreds of genes whose downregulation led to elevated levels of h2ax phosphorylation (gammah2ax) and revealed links to cellular complexes and to genes with unclassified functions. we demonstrate a widespread role for mrna-processing factors in preventing dna damage  which in some cases is caused by aberrant rna-dna structures. furthermore  we connect increased gammah2ax levels to the neurological disorder charcot-marie-tooth (cmt) syndrome  and we find a role for several cmt proteins in the dna-damage response. these data indicate that preservation of genome stability is mediated by a larger network of biological processes than previously appreciated.
2076,mirna-dependent gene silencing involving ago2-mediated cleavage of a circular antisense rna.,micrornas (mirnas) are ∼22 nt non-coding rnas that typically bind to the 3' utr of target mrnas in the cytoplasm  resulting in mrna destabilization and translational repression. here  we report that mirnas can also regulate gene expression by targeting non-coding antisense transcripts in human cells. specifically  we show that mir-671 directs cleavage of a circular antisense transcript of the cerebellar degeneration-related protein 1 (cdr1) locus in an ago2-slicer-dependent manner. the resulting downregulation of circular antisense has a concomitant decrease in cdr1 mrna levels  independently of heterochromatin formation. this study provides the first evidence for non-coding antisense transcripts as functional mirna targets  and a novel regulatory mechanism involving a positive correlation between mrna and antisense circular rna levels.
2078,reversing the tide — diagnosis and prevention of t2dm in populations of african descent,abstract | populations of african descent are at the forefront of the worldwide epidemic of type 2 diabetes mellitus (t2dm). the burden of t2dm is amplified by diagnosis after preventable complications of the disease have occurred. earlier detection would result in a reduction in undiagnosed t2dm  more accurate statistics  more informed resource allocation and better health. an underappreciated factor contributing to undiagnosed t2dm in populations of african descent is that screening tests for hyperglycaemia  specifically  fasting plasma glucose and hba1c  perform sub‐optimally in these populations. to offset this problem  combining tests or adding glycated albumin (a nonfasting marker of glycaemia)  might be the way forward. however  differences in diet  exercise  bmi  environment  gene‐environment interactions and the prevalence of sickle cell trait mean that neither diagnostic tests nor interventions will be uniformly effective in individuals of african  caribbean or african‐american descent. among these three populations of african descent  intensive lifestyle interventions have been reported in only the african‐american population  in which they have been found to provide effective primary prevention of t2dm but not secondary prevention. owing to a lack of health literacy and poor glycaemic control in africa and the caribbean  customized lifestyle interventions might achieve both secondary and primary prevention. overall  diagnosis and prevention of t2dm requires innovative strategies that are sensitive to the diversity that exists within populations of african descent.
2080,fine-scale chromatin interaction maps reveal the cis-regulatory landscape of human lincrna genes,high-throughput methods based on chromosome conformation capture have greatly advanced our understanding of the three-dimensional (3d) organization of genomes but are limited in resolution by their reliance on restriction enzymes. here we describe a method called dnase hi-c for comprehensively mapping global chromatin contacts. dnase hi-c uses dnase i for chromatin fragmentation  leading to greatly improved efficiency and resolution over that of hi-c. coupling this method with dna-capture technology provides a high-throughput approach for targeted mapping of fine-scale chromatin architecture. we applied targeted dnase hi-c to characterize the 3d organization of 998 large intergenic noncoding rna (lincrna) promoters in two human cell lines. our results revealed that expression of lincrnas is tightly controlled by complex mechanisms involving both super-enhancers and the polycomb repressive complex. our results provide the first glimpse of the cell type-specific 3d organization of lincrna genes.
2082,behavioral treatment of obesity in patients encountered in primary care settings: a systematic review.,importance in 2011  the centers for medicare & medicaid services (cms) approved intensive behavioral weight loss counseling for approximately 14 face-to-face  10- to 15-minute sessions over 6 months for obese beneficiaries in primary care settings  when delivered by physicians and other cms-defined primary care practitioners. objective to conduct a systematic review of behavioral counseling for overweight and obese patients recruited from primary care  as delivered by primary care practitioners working alone or with trained interventionists (eg  medical assistants  registered dietitians)  or by trained interventionists working independently. evidence review we searched pubmed  cinahl  and embase for randomized controlled trials published between january 1980 and june 2014 that recruited overweight and obese patients from primary care; provided behavioral counseling (ie  diet  exercise  and behavioral therapy) for at least 3 months  with at least 6 months of postrandomization follow-up; included at least 15 participants per treatment group and objectively measured weights; and had a comparator  an intention-to-treat analysis  and attrition of less than 30% at 1 year or less than 40% at longer follow-up. findings review of 3304 abstracts yielded 12 trials  involving 3893 participants  that met inclusion-exclusion criteria and prespecified quality ratings. no studies were found in which primary care practitioners delivered counseling that followed the cms guidelines. mean 6-month weight changes from baseline in the intervention groups ranged from a loss of 0.3 kg to 6.6 kg. in the control group  mean change ranged from a gain of 0.9 kg to a loss of 2.0 kg. weight loss in both groups generally declined with longer follow-up (12-24 months). interventions that prescribed both reduced energy intake (eg  ≥ 500 kcal/d) and increased physical activity (eg  ≥150 minutes a week of walking)  with traditional behavioral therapy  generally produced larger weight loss than interventions without all 3 specific components. in the former trials  more treatment sessions  delivered in person or by telephone by trained interventionists  were associated with greater mean weight loss and likelihood of patients losing 5% or more of baseline weight. conclusions and relevance intensive behavioral counseling can induce clinically meaningful weight loss  but there is little research on primary care practitioners providing such care. the present findings suggest that a range of trained interventionists  who deliver counseling in person or by telephone  could be considered for treating overweight or obesity in patients encountered in primary care settings.
2084,atp binding to pan or the 26s atpases causes association with the 20s proteasome  gate opening  and translocation of unfolded proteins.,the archaeal atpase complex pan  the homolog of the eukaryotic 26s proteasome-regulatory atpases  was shown to associate transiently with the 20s proteasome upon binding of atp or atpgammas  but not adp. by electron microscopy (em)  pan appears as a two-ring structure  capping the 20s  and resembles two densities in the 19s complex. the n termini of the archaeal 20s alpha subunits were found to function as a gate that prevents entry of seven-residue peptides but allows entry of tetrapeptides. upon association with the 20s particle  pan stimulates gate opening. although degradation of globular proteins requires atp hydrolysis  the pan-20s complex with atpgammas translocates and degrades unfolded and denatured proteins. rabbit 26s proteasomes also degrade these unfolded proteins upon atp binding  without hydrolysis. thus  although unfolding requires energy from atp hydrolysis  atp binding alone supports atpase-20s association  gate opening  and translocation of unfolded substrates into the proteasome  which can occur by facilitated diffusion through the atpase.
2086,vegetarian dietary patterns and mortality in adventist health study 2.,importance some evidence suggests vegetarian dietary patterns may be associated with reduced mortality  but the relationship is not well established. objective to evaluate the association between vegetarian dietary patterns and mortality. design prospective cohort study; mortality analysis by cox proportional hazards regression  controlling for important demographic and lifestyle confounders. setting adventist health study 2 (ahs-2)  a large north american cohort. participants a total of 96 469 seventh-day adventist men and women recruited between 2002 and 2007  from which an analytic sample of 73 308 participants remained after exclusions. exposures diet was assessed at baseline by a quantitative food frequency questionnaire and categorized into 5 dietary patterns: nonvegetarian  semi-vegetarian  pesco-vegetarian  lacto-ovo-vegetarian  and vegan. main outcome and measure the relationship between vegetarian dietary patterns and all-cause and cause-specific mortality; deaths through 2009 were identified from the national death index. results there were 2570 deaths among 73 308 participants during a mean follow-up time of 5.79 years. the mortality rate was 6.05 (95% ci  5.82-6.29) deaths per 1000 person-years. the adjusted hazard ratio (hr) for all-cause mortality in all vegetarians combined vs nonvegetarians was 0.88 (95% ci  0.80-0.97). the adjusted hr for all-cause mortality in vegans was 0.85 (95% ci  0.73-1.01); in lacto-ovo-vegetarians  0.91 (95% ci  0.82-1.00); in pesco-vegetarians  0.81 (95% ci  0.69-0.94); and in semi-vegetarians  0.92 (95% ci  0.75-1.13) compared with nonvegetarians. significant associations with vegetarian diets were detected for cardiovascular mortality  noncardiovascular noncancer mortality  renal mortality  and endocrine mortality. associations in men were larger and more often significant than were those in women. conclusions and relevance vegetarian diets are associated with lower all-cause mortality and with some reductions in cause-specific mortality. results appeared to be more robust in males. these favorable associations should be considered carefully by those offering dietary guidance.
2088,direct isolation of human central nervous system stem cells.,stem cells  which are clonogenic cells with self-renewal and multilineage differentiation properties  have the potential to replace or repair damaged tissue. we have directly isolated clonogenic human central nervous system stem cells (hcns-sc) from fresh human fetal brain tissue  using antibodies to cell surface markers and fluorescence-activated cell sorting. these hcns-sc are phenotypically 5f3 (cd133)(+)  5e12(+)  cd34(-)  cd45(-)  and cd24(-/lo). single cd133(+) cd34(-) cd45(-) sorted cells initiated neurosphere cultures  and the progeny of clonogenic cells could differentiate into both neurons and glial cells. single cells from neurosphere cultures initiated from cd133(+) cd34(-) cd45(-) cells were again replated as single cells and were able to reestablish neurosphere cultures  demonstrating the self-renewal potential of this highly enriched population. upon transplantation into brains of immunodeficient neonatal mice  the sorted/expanded hcns-sc showed potent engraftment  proliferation  migration  and neural differentiation.
2090,cardiorespiratory fitness and body mass index as predictors of cardiovascular disease mortality among men with diabetes.,background questions remain as to whether higher levels of cardiorespiratory fitness  a measure of regular physical activity  are associated with lower risk of cardiovascular disease (cvd) mortality in overweight and obese individuals with diabetes. our objective was to quantify the independent and joint relations of cardiorespiratory fitness (hereafter  fitness) and body mass index (bmi; calculated as weight in kilograms divided by the square of height in meters) with cvd mortality in men with diabetes. methods this study was conducted using prospective observational data from the aerobics center longitudinal study. study participants comprised 2316 men with no history of stroke or myocardial infarction and who were diagnosed as having diabetes (mean [sd] age  50 [10] years); had a medical examination  including a maximal exercise test during 1970 to 1997 with mortality surveillance to december 31  1998; and had a bmi of 18.5 or greater and less than 35.0. the main outcome measure was cvd mortality across levels of fitness with stratification by bmi. results we identified 179 cvd deaths during a mean (sd) follow-up of 15.9 (7.9) years and 36 710 man-years of exposure. in a model containing age  examination year  fasting glucose level  systolic blood pressure  parental history of premature cvd  total cholesterol level  cigarette smoking  abnormal resting  and exercise electrocardiograms  a significantly higher adjusted risk of mortality was observed in men with a low fitness level who were normal weight (hazard ratio  2.7 [95% confidence interval  1.3-5.7])  overweight (hazard ratio  2.7 [95% confidence interval  1.4-5.1])  and class 1 obese (hazard ratio  2.8 [95% confidence interval  1.4-5.1]) compared with normal weight men with a high fitness level. conclusion in this cohort of men with diabetes  low fitness level was associated with increased risk of cvd mortality within normal weight  overweight  and class 1 obese weight categories.
2092,the regulation of n-methyl-d-aspartate receptors by src kinase.,src family kinases (sfks) play critical roles in the regulation of many cellular functions by growth factors  g-protein-coupled receptors and ligand-gated ion channels. recent data have shown that sfks serve as a convergent point of multiple signaling pathways regulating n-methyl-d-aspartate (nmda) receptors in the central nervous system. multiple sfk molecules  such as src and fyn  closely associate with their substrate  nmda receptors  via indirect and direct binding mechanisms. the nmda receptor is associated with an sfk signaling complex consisting of sfks; the sfk-activating phosphatase  protein tyrosine phosphatase α; and the sfk-inactivating kinase  c-terminal src kinase. early studies have demonstrated that intramolecular interactions with the sh2 or sh3 domain lock sfks in a closed conformation. disruption of the interdomain interactions can induce the activation of sfks with multiple signaling pathways involved in regulation of this process. the enzyme activity of sfks appears 'graded'  exhibiting different levels coinciding with activation states. it has also been proposed that the sh2 and sh3 domains may stimulate catalytic activity of protein tyrosine kinases  such as abl. recently  it has been found that the enzyme activity of neuronal src protein is associated with its stability  and that the sh2 and sh3 domain interactions may act not only to constrain the activation of neuronal src  but also to regulate the enzyme activity of active neuronal src. collectively  these findings demonstrate novel mechanisms underlying the regulation of sfks.
2094,computer assisted learning in undergraduate medical education.,it is becoming “a truth universally acknowledged” that the education of undergraduate medical students will be enhanced through the use of computer assisted learning. access to the wide range of online options illustrated in the figure must surely make learning more exciting  effective  and likely to be retained. this assumption is potentially but by no means inevitably correct. ### box 1: why fund computer assisted learning? computer assisted learning is inevitable —individual lecturers and departments are already beginning to introduce a wide range of computer based applications  sometimes in a haphazard way. planned and coordinated development is better than indiscriminate expansion  it is convenient and flexible —courses supported by computer assisted learning applications may require fewer face to face lectures and seminars and place fewer geographical and temporal constraints on staff and students. students at peripheral hospitals or primary care centres may benefit in particular  unique presentational benefits —computer presentation is particularly suited to subjects that are visually intensive  detail oriented  and difficult to conceptualise  such as complex biochemical processes or microscopic images.1 furthermore  “virtual” cases may reduce the need to use animal or human tissue in learning  personalised learning —each learner can progress at his or her preferred pace. they can repeat  interrupt  and resume at will  which may have particular advantages for weaker students  economies of scale —once an application has been set up  the incremental cost of offering it to additional students is relatively small  competitive advantage —potential applicants may use the quality of information technology to discriminate between medical schools. a “leading edge” virtual campus is likely to attract good students  achieves the ultimate goal of higher education —the goal is to link people into learning communities. computer applications  especially the internet and world wide web  are an extremely efficient way of doing this2  expands pedagogical horizons —the most controversial argument for … return to text
2096,increased cell bond tension governs cell sorting at the drosophila anteroposterior compartment boundary,subdividing proliferating tissues into compartments is an evolutionarily conserved strategy of animal development [1-6]. signals across boundaries between compartments can result in local expression of secreted proteins organizing growth and patterning of tissues [1-6]. sharp and straight interfaces between compartments are crucial for stabilizing the position of such organizers and therefore for precise implementation of body plans. maintaining boundaries in proliferating tissues requires mechanisms to counteract cell rearrangements caused by cell division; however  the nature of such mechanisms remains unclear. here we quantitatively analyzed cell morphology and the response to the laser ablation of cell bonds in the vicinity of the anteroposterior compartment boundary in developing drosophila wings. we found that mechanical tension is approximately 2.5-fold increased on cell bonds along this compartment boundary as compared to the remaining tissue. cell bond tension is decreased in the presence of y-27632 [7]  an inhibitor of rho-kinase whose main effector is myosin ii [8]. simulations using a vertex model [9] demonstrate that a 2.5-fold increase in local cell bond tension suffices to guide the rearrangement of cells after cell division to maintain compartment boundaries. our results provide a physical mechanism in which the local increase in myosin ii-dependent cell bond tension directs cell sorting at compartment boundaries.
2098,nature  nurture  or chance: stochastic gene expression and its consequences,gene expression is a fundamentally stochastic process  with randomness in transcription and translation leading to cell-to-cell variations in mrna and protein levels. this variation appears in organisms ranging from microbes to metazoans  and its characteristics depend both on the biophysical parameters governing gene expression and on gene network structure. stochastic gene expression has important consequences for cellular function  being beneficial in some contexts and harmful in others. these situations include the stress response  metabolism  development  the cell cycle  circadian rhythms  and aging.
2100,folate and vitamin b6 from diet and supplements in relation to risk of coronary heart disease among women.,context hyperhomocysteinemia is caused by genetic and lifestyle influences  including low intakes of folate and vitamin b6. however  prospective data relating intake of these vitamins to risk of coronary heart disease (chd) are not available. objective to examine intakes of folate and vitamin b6 in relation to the incidence of nonfatal myocardial infarction (mi) and fatal chd. design prospective cohort study. setting and patients in 1980  a total of 80082 women from the nurses' health study with no previous history of cardiovascular disease  cancer  hypercholesterolemia  or diabetes completed a detailed food frequency questionnaire from which we derived usual intake of folate and vitamin b6. main outcome measure nonfatal mi and fatal chd confirmed by world health organization criteria. results during 14 years of follow-up  we documented 658 incident cases of nonfatal mi and 281 cases of fatal chd. after controlling for cardiovascular risk factors  including smoking and hypertension and intake of alcohol  fiber  vitamin e  and saturated  polyunsaturated  and trans fat  the relative risks (rrs) of chd between extreme quintiles were 0.69 (95% confidence interval [ci]  0.55-0.87) for folate (median intake  696 microg/d vs 158 microg/d) and 0.67 (95% ci  0.53-0.85) for vitamin b6 (median intake  4.6 mg/d vs 1.1 mg/d). controlling for the same variables  the rr was 0.55 (95% ci  0.41-0.74) among women in the highest quintile of both folate and vitamin b6 intake compared with the opposite extreme. risk of chd was reduced among women who regularly used multiple vitamins (rr=0.76; 95% ci  0.65-0.90)  the major source of folate and vitamin b6  and after excluding multiple vitamin users  among those with higher dietary intakes of folate and vitamin b6. in a subgroup analysis  compared with nondrinkers  the inverse association between a high-folate diet and chd was strongest among women who consumed up to 1 alcoholic beverage per day (rr =0.69; 95% ci  0.49-0.97) or more than 1 drink per day (rr=0.27; 95% ci  0.13-0.58). conclusion these results suggest that intake of folate and vitamin b6 above the current recommended dietary allowance may be important in the primary prevention of chd among women.
2102,from cell differentiation to cell collectives: bacillus subtilis uses division of labor to migrate,the organization of cells  emerging from cell-cell interactions  can give rise to collective properties. these properties are adaptive when together cells can face environmental challenges that they separately cannot. one particular challenge that is important for microorganisms is migration. in this study  we show how flagellum-independent migration is driven by the division of labor of two cell types that appear during bacillus subtilis sliding motility. cell collectives organize themselves into bundles (called "van gogh bundles") of tightly aligned cell chains that form filamentous loops at the colony edge. we show  by time-course microscopy  that these loops migrate by pushing themselves away from the colony. the formation of van gogh bundles depends critically on the synergistic interaction of surfactin-producing and matrix-producing cells. we propose that surfactin-producing cells reduce the friction between cells and their substrate  thereby facilitating matrix-producing cells to form bundles. the folding properties of these bundles determine the rate of colony expansion. our study illustrates how the simple organization of cells within a community can yield a strong ecological advantage. this is a key factor underlying the diverse origins of multicellularity.
2104,registration and real-time visualization of transcranial magnetic stimulation with 3-d mr images,this paper describes a method for registering and visualizing in real-time the results of transcranial magnetic stimulations (tms) in physical space on the corresponding anatomical locations in mr images of the brain. the method proceeds in three main steps. first  the patient scalp is digitized in physical space with a magnetic-field digitizer  following a specific digitization pattern. second  a registration process minimizes the mean square distance between those points and a segmented scalp surface extracted from the magnetic resonance image. following this registration  the physician can follow the change in coil position in real-time through the visualization interface and adjust the coil position to the desired anatomical location. third  amplitude of motor evoked potentials can be projected onto the segmented brain in order to create functional brain maps. the registration has subpixel accuracy in a study with simulated data  while we obtain a point to surface root-mean-square error of 1.17/spl plusmn/0.38 mm in a 24 subject study.
2106,circulating adiponectin  leptin and adiponectin-leptin ratio and endometrial cancer risk: evidence from a meta-analysis of epidemiologic studies.,we performed this meta-analysis of epidemiologic studies to investigate the associations between circulating adiponectin  leptin and adiponectin-leptin (a/l) ratio and endometrial cancer risk. relevant manuscripts were identified by searching pubmed and isi web of science databases as well as by manual searching the references cited in retrieved manuscripts. random-effects models were used to estimate summary odds ratio (sor) and 95% confidence intervals (cis) for aforementioned associations. fourteen manuscripts with 13 studies (five nested case-control and eight case-control studies) cumulatively involving a total of 1 963 endometrial cancer cases and 3 503 noncases were included in the analyses. overall  comparing persons with circulating concentrations of adiponectin  leptin and a/l ratio in the top tertile with persons with concentrations of these biomarkers in the bottom tertile yielded sors of 0.47 (95% ci: 0.34-0.65; i(2)  = 63.7%; n = 13)  2.19 (95% ci: 1.44-3.31; i(2)  = 64.2%; n = 7) and 0.45 (95% ci: 0.24-0.86; i(2)  = 90.1%; n = 5)  respectively. notably  there was an 18% reduction in risk for per each 5 μg/ml increment in circulating adiponectin concentrations (sor = 0.82; 95% ci: 0.74-0.90; i(2)  = 49%; n = 8). stratifying by study characteristics and whether these studies considered or adjusted for potential confounders  the findings were robust in the analyses of circulating adiponectin and leptin. no evidence of publication bias was detected. in conclusion  the findings from this meta-analysis suggest that increased circulating adiponectin and a/l ratio or decreased leptin concentrations were associated with reduced risk of endometrial cancer. further prospective designed studies are warranted to confirm our findings.
2108,localized diacylglycerol drives the polarization of the microtubule-organizing center in t cells,the reorientation of the t cell microtubule-organizing center (mtoc) toward the antigen-presenting cell enables the directional secretion of cytokines and lytic factors. by single-cell photoactivation of the t cell antigen receptor  we show that mtoc polarization is driven by localized accumulation of diacylglycerol (dag). mtoc reorientation was closely preceded first by production of dag and then by recruitment of the microtubule motor protein dynein. blocking dag production or disrupting the localization of dag impaired mtoc recruitment. localized dag accumulation was also required for cytotoxic t cell–mediated killing. furthermore  photoactivation of dag itself was sufficient to induce transient polarization. our data identify a dag-dependent pathway that signals through dynein to control microtubule polarity in t cells.
2110,fine-tuning in regulation of clp protein content in bacillus subtilis.,clp-controlled proteolysis in bacillus subtilis seems to play a substantial role  particularly under stress conditions. calibrated western blot analyses were used to estimate the approximate numbers of heat-inducible clp molecules within a single cell. according to these numbers  the different clp atpases do not seem to compete for the proteolytic subunit clpp. coimmunoprecipitation experiments revealed the predicted specific clpx-clpp  clpc-clpp  and clpe-clpp interactions. clpe and clpx are rapidly degraded in wild-type cells during permanent heat stress but remained almost stable in a clpp mutant  suggesting clpp-dependent degradation. in particular  clpcp appeared to be involved in the degradation of the short-lived clpe atpase  indicating a negative "autoregulatory" circuit for this particular clp atpase at the posttranslational level. analysis of the half-life of stress-inducible clp mrnas during exponential growth and heat shock revealed precise regulation of the synthesis of each clp protein at the posttranscriptional level as well to meet the needs of b. subtilis.
2112,use of human embryonic stem cells to model pediatric gliomas with h3.3k27m histone mutation,over 70% of diffuse intrinsic pediatric gliomas  an aggressive brainstem tumor  harbor heterozygous mutations that create a k27m amino acid substitution (methionine replaces lysine 27) in the tail of histone h3.3. the role of the h3.3k27m mutation in tumorigenesis is not fully understood. here  we use a human embryonic stem cell system to model this tumor. we show that h3.3k27m expression synergizes with p53 loss and pdgfra activation in neural progenitor cells derived from human embryonic stem cells  resulting in neoplastic transformation. genome-wide analyses indicate a resetting of the transformed precursors to a developmentally more primitive stem cell state  with evidence of major modifications of histone marks at several master regulator genes. drug screening assays identified a compound targeting the protein menin as an inhibitor of tumor cell growth in vitro and in mice.
2114,a multiple indicators multiple causes model of late-life depression in latin american countries,background the euro-d depression scale consists of symptom clusters that may be differentially related to demographic and cognitive characteristics in older adults. this hypothesis needs further investigation and the role of measurement bias on substantive conclusions remains to be established. method the study sample comprised 10 405 community-dwelling older adults from six latin american countries. we applied a multiple indicators multiple causes (mimic) model for a concurrent investigation of measurement bias and of the association between euro-d symptom clusters and background variables. results the factorial validity of euro-d  with a two-dimensional structure--affective suffering and motivation disturbance  was consistently supported in all countries. although complete measurement invariance could not be assumed across countries  measurement bias was minor. both euro-d factors were unrelated to age  but related to gender  as well as to impairment in memory and verbal fluency. gender differences were larger for affective suffering than for motivation disturbance  whereas differences in verbal fluency impairment were more strongly related to motivation disturbance. limitations our analytic strategies could only examine invariance at the level of indicator thresholds. the generalisability of current findings needs to be examined in clinical populations. a wider set of cognitive tests is needed. we did not examine the compositional factors that could have accounted for the variation in euro-d scores across countries  as this was beyond the aims of the paper. conclusion the current study adds evidence for the construct validity of euro-d and for the possible differential association of depression symptom-clusters with gender and verbal fluency in older adults. an understanding of the heterogeneity of late-life depression may carry clinical implications for the diagnosis and treatment of depression in old age.
2116,evaluation of oxidative status and depression-like responses in brown norway rats with acute myeloid leukemia,it has been proved that oxidative stress increases when leukemia is accompanied by depression. this fact may indicate the role of oxidative stress in the development of depression in cancer patients. the aim of this study was to determine whether the acute myeloid leukemia of brown norway rats  which is accompanied by oxidative stress  evoked behavioral and receptor changes resembling alterations characteristic of rat models of depression. the rats were divided into two groups: leukemic rats and healthy control. leukemia was induced through intraperitoneal injection of 10(7) promyelocytic leukemia cells to the brown norway rats. depression-like behavior was evaluated in the forced swim test at 30 or 34 days after leukemic cells injection. the rats were killed after the evaluation and the spleen  brain cortex and hippocampus were excised. the red-ox state was assessed in homogenates of tissues by measuring total glutathione (gsh) content  the ferric ion reducing ability of plasma (frap) level  expression of heme oxygenase-1 (ho-1)  biliverdin reductase (bvr) and ferritin mrna  superoxide dismutase (sod) activity  as well as malondialdehyde (mda) concentration. radioligand binding assay was used to assess of the effect of leukemia on cortical receptors. leukemic cells were identified using rm-124 antibody by facs calibur flow cytometry. leukemia influenced locomotory activity as well as forced swim test behavior in a 34-day series of experiments. signs of oxidative stress in leukemic rats were observed in each examined stage of leukemia development. the frap values and glutathione contents  were significantly lowered whereas ho-1 mrna expression  and malonodialdehyde concentrations were significantly increased in the spleen and brain structures of leukemic rats in comparison with the healthy controls. a significant increase in the potency of glycine to displace [(3)h]l-689 560 from the strychnine-insensitive glycine site of the n-methyl-d-aspartic (nmda) receptors receptor complex in cortical homogenates of the leukemic rats in 30- and 34-day experimental series was observed in comparison with the control. upregulation of 5-ht(2a) receptors was observed in rat cortex after 30 days of leukemia development but not in 34-days series compared with the control. it is concluded that disturbances in antioxidant system in brain cortex were accompanied by an activation of glycine sites of the nmda receptor complex  regardless of stage of leukemia development  which are characteristic of model of depression. findings of our study demonstrate the link between glutamatergic activity  oxidative stress and leukemia.
2118,the essential schizosaccharomyces pombe pfh1 dna helicase promotes fork movement past g-quadruplex motifs to prevent dna damage,background g-quadruplexes (g4s) are stable non-canonical dna secondary structures consisting of stacked arrays of four guanines  each held together by hoogsteen hydrogen bonds. sequences with the ability to form these structures in vitro  g4 motifs  are found throughout bacterial and eukaryotic genomes. the budding yeast pif1 dna helicase  as well as several bacterial pif1 family helicases  unwind g4 structures robustly in vitro and suppress g4-induced dna damage in s. cerevisiae in vivo. results we determined the genomic distribution and evolutionary conservation of g4 motifs in four fission yeast species and investigated the relationship between g4 motifs and pfh1  the sole s. pombe pif1 family helicase. using chromatin immunoprecipitation combined with deep sequencing  we found that many g4 motifs in the s. pombe genome were associated with pfh1. cells depleted of pfh1 had increased fork pausing and dna damage near g4 motifs  as indicated by high dna polymerase occupancy and phosphorylated histone h2a  respectively. in general  g4 motifs were underrepresented in genes. however  pfh1-associated g4 motifs were located on the transcribed strand of highly transcribed genes significantly more often than expected  suggesting that pfh1 has a function in replication or transcription at these sites. conclusions in the absence of functional pfh1  unresolved g4 structures cause fork pausing and dna damage of the sort associated with human tumors.
2120,bitter taste receptors and α-gustducin regulate the secretion of ghrelin with functional effects on food intake and gastric emptying.,ghrelin is a hunger hormone with gastroprokinetic properties but the factors controlling ghrelin secretion from the stomach are unknown. bitter taste receptors (t2r) and the gustatory g proteins  α-gustducin (gust) and α-transducin  are expressed in the gut and are involved in the chemosensation of nutrients. this study aimed to investigate whether t2r-agonists affect (i) ghrelin release via α-gustducin and (ii) food intake and gastric emptying via the release of ghrelin. the mouse stomach contains two ghrelin cell populations: cells containing octanoyl and desoctanoyl ghrelin  which were colocalized with α-gustducin and α-transducin  and cells staining for desoctanoyl ghrelin. gavage of t2r-agonists increased plasma octanoyl ghrelin levels in wt mice but the effect was partially blunted in gust(-/-) mice. intragastric administration of t2r-agonists increased food intake during the first 30 min in wt but not in gust(-/-) and ghrelin receptor knockout mice. this increase was accompanied by an increase in the mrna expression of agouti-related peptide in the hypothalamus of wt but not of gust(-/-) mice. the temporary increase in food intake was followed by a prolonged decrease (next 4 h)  which correlated with an inhibition of gastric emptying. the delay in emptying  which was partially counteracted by ghrelin  was not mediated by cholecystokinin and glp-1 but involved a direct inhibitory effect of t2r-agonists on gastric contractility. this study is unique in providing functional evidence that activation of bitter taste receptors stimulates ghrelin secretion. modulation of endogenous ghrelin levels by tastants may provide novel therapeutic applications for the treatment of weight -and gastrointestinal motility disorders.
2122,the extracellular surface of the glp-1 receptor is a molecular trigger for biased agonism,ligand-directed signal bias offers opportunities for sculpting molecular events  with the promise of better  safer therapeutics. critical to the exploitation of signal bias is an understanding of the molecular events coupling ligand binding to intracellular signaling. activation of class b g protein-coupled receptors is driven by interaction of the peptide n terminus with the receptor core. to understand how this drives signaling  we have used advanced analytical methods that enable separation of effects on pathway-specific signaling from those that modify agonist affinity and mapped the functional consequence of receptor modification onto three-dimensional models of a receptor-ligand complex. this yields molecular insights into the initiation of receptor activation and the mechanistic basis for biased agonism. our data reveal that peptide agonists can engage different elements of the receptor extracellular face to achieve effector coupling and biased signaling providing a foundation for rational design of biased agonists.
2124,influence of smoking and plasma factors on patency of femoropopliteal vein grafts.,objective to determine the effects of smoking  plasma lipids  lipoproteins  apolipoproteins  and fibrinogen on the patency of saphenous vein femoropopliteal bypass grafts at one year. design prospective study of patients with saphenous vein femoropopliteal bypass grafts entered into a multicentre trial. setting surgical wards  outpatient clinics  and home visits coordinated by two tertiary referral centres in london and birmingham. patients 157 patients (mean age 66.6 (sd 8.2) years)  113 with patent grafts and 44 with occluded grafts one year after bypass. main outcome measure cumulative percentage patency at one year. results markers for smoking (blood carboxyhaemoglobin concentration (p less than 0.05) and plasma thiocyanate concentration (p less than 0.01) and plasma concentrations of fibrinogen (p less than 0.001) and apolipoproteins ai (p less than 0.04) and (a) (p less than 0.05) were significantly higher in patients with occluded grafts. serum cholesterol concentrations were significantly higher in patients with grafts that remained patent one year after bypass (p less than 0.005). analysis of the smoking markers indicated that a quarter of patients (40) were untruthful in their claims to have stopped smoking. based on smoking markers  patency of grafts in smokers was significantly lower at one year by life table analysis than in non-smokers (63% v 84%  p less than 0.02). patency was significantly higher by life table analysis in patients with a plasma fibrinogen concentration below the median than in those with a concentration above (90% v 57%  p less than 0.0002). surprisingly  increased plasma low density lipoprotein cholesterol concentration was significantly associated with improved patency at one year (85%) at values above the median compared with patency (only 68%) at values in the lower half of the range (p less than 0.02). conclusions plasma fibrinogen concentration was the most important variable predicting graft occlusion  followed by smoking markers. a more forceful approach is needed to stop patients smoking; therapeutic measures to improve patency of vein grafts should focus on decreasing plasma fibrinogen concentration rather than serum cholesterol concentration.
2126,the role of free radicals in cold injuries.,cold injury is a tissue trauma produced by exposure to freezing temperatures and even brief exposure to a severely cold and windy environment. rewarming of frozen tissue is associated with blood reperfusion and the simultaneous generation of free oxygen radicals. in this review is discussed the current understanding of the mechanism of action of free oxygen radicals as related to cold injury during rewarming. decreased energy stores during ischaemia lead to the accumulation of adenine nucleotides and liberation of free fatty acids due to the breakdown of lipid membranes. on rewarming  free fatty acids are metabolized via cyclo-oxygenase and adenine nucleotides are metabolized via the xanthine oxidase pathway. these may be the source of free oxygen radicals. leukocytes may also play a major role in the pathogenesis of cold injury. oxygen radical scavengers  such as superoxide dismutase and catalase  may help to reduce the cold induced injury but their action is limited due to the inability readily to cross the plasma membrane. lipid soluble antioxidants are likely to be more effective scavengers because of their presence in membranes where peroxidative reactions can be arrested.
2128,mtor supports long-term self-renewal and suppresses mesoderm and endoderm activities of human embryonic stem cells.,despite the recent identification of the transcriptional regulatory circuitry involving sox2  nanog  and oct-4  the intracellular signaling networks that control pluripotency of human embryonic stem cells (hescs) remain largely undefined. here  we demonstrate an essential role for the serine/threonine protein kinase mammalian target of rapamycin (mtor) in regulating hesc long-term undifferentiated growth. inhibition of mtor impairs pluripotency  prevents cell proliferation  and enhances mesoderm and endoderm activities in hescs. at the molecular level  mtor integrates signals from extrinsic pluripotency-supporting factors and represses the transcriptional activities of a subset of developmental and growth-inhibitory genes  as revealed by genome-wide microarray analyses. repression of the developmental genes by mtor is necessary for the maintenance of hesc pluripotency. these results uncover a novel signaling mechanism by which mtor controls fate decisions in hescs. our findings may contribute to effective strategies for tissue repair and regeneration.
2130,hallmarks of cancer: the next generation,the hallmarks of cancer comprise six biological capabilities acquired during the multistep development of human tumors. the hallmarks constitute an organizing principle for rationalizing the complexities of neoplastic disease. they include sustaining proliferative signaling  evading growth suppressors  resisting cell death  enabling replicative immortality  inducing angiogenesis  and activating invasion and metastasis. underlying these hallmarks are genome instability  which generates the genetic diversity that expedites their acquisition  and inflammation  which fosters multiple hallmark functions. conceptual progress in the last decade has added two emerging hallmarks of potential generality to this list-reprogramming of energy metabolism and evading immune destruction. in addition to cancer cells  tumors exhibit another dimension of complexity: they contain a repertoire of recruited  ostensibly normal cells that contribute to the acquisition of hallmark traits by creating the "tumor microenvironment. " recognition of the widespread applicability of these concepts will increasingly affect the development of new means to treat human cancer.
2132,cancer risks attributable to low doses of ionizing radiation: assessing what we really know.,high doses of ionizing radiation clearly produce deleterious consequences in humans  including  but not exclusively  cancer induction. at very low radiation doses the situation is much less clear  but the risks of low-dose radiation are of societal importance in relation to issues as varied as screening tests for cancer  the future of nuclear power  occupational radiation exposure  frequent-flyer risks  manned space exploration  and radiological terrorism. we review the difficulties involved in quantifying the risks of low-dose radiation and address two specific questions. first  what is the lowest dose of x- or gamma-radiation for which good evidence exists of increased cancer risks in humans? the epidemiological data suggest that it is approximately 10-50 msv for an acute exposure and approximately 50-100 msv for a protracted exposure. second  what is the most appropriate way to extrapolate such cancer risk estimates to still lower doses? given that it is supported by experimentally grounded  quantifiable  biophysical arguments  a linear extrapolation of cancer risks from intermediate to very low doses currently appears to be the most appropriate methodology. this linearity assumption is not necessarily the most conservative approach  and it is likely that it will result in an underestimate of some radiation-induced cancer risks and an overestimate of others.
2134,identification of bone and liver metastases from breast cancer by measurement of plasma alkaline phosphatase isoenzyme activity.,plasma alkaline phosphatase isoenzyme activities were determined in patients with breast cancer to diagnose and monitor bone and liver metastases. bone alkaline phosphatase activity was increased in 21 of 50 patients (42%) with radiologically confirmed bone metastases  while total alkaline phosphatase activity was increased in only 10 of 50 (20%); liver alkaline phosphatase activity was raised in 12 of 25 patients (48%) with liver metastases. all patients with liver metastases had bone metastases. bone alkaline phosphatase activity was significantly higher in patients with symptomatic bone disease. isoenzyme determination provided additional information that would have changed patient management in five of 20 patients who were monitored serially. measurement of alkaline phosphatase isoenzyme activity  though less sensitive than imaging procedures  can assist in screening for  and in early detection of  a high proportion of bone and liver metastases  and can provide useful objective evidence of their response to treatment.
2136,coordinated regulation of sulfur and phospholipid metabolism reflects the importance of methylation in the growth of yeast,a yeast strain lacking met4p  the primary transcriptional regulator of the sulfur assimilation pathway  cannot synthesize methionine. this apparently simple auxotroph did not grow well in rich media containing excess methionine  forming small colonies on yeast extract/peptone/dextrose plates. faster-growing large colonies were abundant when overnight cultures were plated  suggesting that spontaneous suppressors of the growth defect arise with high frequency. to identify the suppressor mutations  we used genome-wide single-nucleotide polymorphism and standard genetic analyses. the most common suppressors were loss-of-function mutations in opi1  encoding a transcriptional repressor of phospholipid metabolism. using a new system that allows rapid and specific degradation of met4p  we could study the dynamic expression of all genes following loss of met4p. experiments using this system with and without opi1p showed that met4 activates and opi1p represses genes that maintain levels of s-adenosylmethionine (sam)  the substrate for most methyltransferase reactions. cells lacking met4p grow normally when either sam is added to the media or one of the sam synthetase genes is overexpressed. sam is used as a methyl donor in three opi1p-regulated reactions to create the abundant membrane phospholipid  phosphatidylcholine. our results show that rapidly growing cells require significant methylation  likely for the biosynthesis of phospholipids.
2138,combinatorial transcriptional control in blood stem/progenitor cells: genome-wide analysis of ten major transcriptional regulators.,combinatorial transcription factor (tf) interactions control cellular phenotypes and  therefore  underpin stem cell formation  maintenance  and differentiation. here  we report the genome-wide binding patterns and combinatorial interactions for ten key regulators of blood stem/progenitor cells (scl/tal1  lyl1  lmo2  gata2  runx1  meis1  pu.1  erg  fli-1  and gfi1b)  thus providing the most comprehensive tf data set for any adult stem/progenitor cell type to date. genome-wide computational analysis of complex binding patterns  followed by functional validation  revealed the following: first  a previously unrecognized combinatorial interaction between a heptad of tfs (scl  lyl1  lmo2  gata2  runx1  erg  and fli-1). second  we implicate direct protein-protein interactions between four key regulators (runx1  gata2  scl  and erg) in stabilizing complex binding to dna. third  runx1(+/-)::gata2(+/-) compound heterozygous mice are not viable with severe hematopoietic defects at midgestation. taken together  this study demonstrates the power of genome-wide analysis in generating novel functional insights into the transcriptional control of stem and progenitor cells.
2140,role of tumor associated macrophages in tumor angiogenesis and lymphangiogenesis,tumor angiogenesis is an essential process for supplying rapidly growing malignant tissues with essential nutrients and oxygen. an angiogenic switch allows tumor cells to survive and grow  and provides them access to vasculature resulting in metastatic disease. monocyte-derived macrophages recruited and reprogrammed by tumor cells serve as a major source of angiogenic factors boosting the angiogenic switch. tumor endothelium releases angiopoietin-2 and further facilitates recruitment of tie2 receptor expressing monocytes (tem) into tumor sites. tumor-associated macrophages (tam) sense hypoxia in avascular areas of tumors  and react by production of angiogenic factors such as vegfa. vegfa stimulates chemotaxis of endothelial cells (ec) and macrophages. in some tumors  tam appeared to be a major source of mmp9. elevated expression of mmp9 by tam mediates extracellular matrix (ecm) degradation and the release of bioactive vegfa. other angiogenic factors released by tam include basic fibroblast growth factor (bfgf)  thymidine phosphorylase (tp)  urokinase-type plasminogen activator (upa)  and adrenomedullin (adm). the same factors used by macrophages for the induction of angiogenesis [like vascular endothelial growth factor a (vegf-a) and mmp9] support lymphangiogenesis. tam can express lyve-1  one of the established markers of lymphatic endothelium. tam support tumor lymphangiogenesis not only by secretion of pro-lymphangiogenic factors but also by trans-differentiation into lymphatic ec. new pro-angiogenic factor ykl-40 belongs to a family of mammalian chitinase-like proteins (clp) that act as cytokines or growth factors. human clp family comprises ykl-40  ykl-39  and si-clp. production of all three clp in macrophages is antagonistically regulated by cytokines. it was recently established that ykl-40 induces angiogenesis in vitro and in animal tumor models. ykl-40-neutralizing monoclonal antibody blocks tumor angiogenesis and progression. the role of ykl-39 and si-clp in tumor angiogenesis and lymphangiogenesis remains to be investigated.
2142,distinction and relationship between elongation rate and processivity of rna polymerase ii in vivo.,a number of proteins and drugs have been implicated in the process of transcriptional elongation by rna polymerase (pol) ii  but the factors that govern the elongation rate (nucleotide additions per min) and processivity (nucleotide additions per initiation event) in vivo are poorly understood. here  we show that a mutation in the rpb2 subunit of pol ii reduces both the elongation rate and processivity in vivo. in contrast  none of the putative elongation factors tested affect the elongation rate  although mutations in the tho complex and in spt4 significantly reduce processivity. the drugs 6-azauracil and mycophenolic acid reduce both the elongation rate and processivity  and this processivity defect is aggravated by mutations in spt4  tfiis  and ctdk-1. our results suggest that  in vivo  a reduced rate of pol ii elongation leads to premature dissociation along the chromatin template and that pol ii processivity can be uncoupled from elongation rate.
2144,determinants of adolescent physical activity and inactivity patterns.,objectives despite recognition of the important influence of environmental determinants on physical activity patterns  minimal empirical research has been done to assess the impact of environmental/contextual determinants of physical activity. this article aims to investigate environmental and sociodemographic determinants of physical activity and inactivity patterns among subpopulations of us adolescents. we define environmental determinants as modifiable factors in the physical environment that impose a direct influence on the opportunity to engage in physical activity. the present research examines environmental and sociodemographic determinants of physical activity and inactivity with the implication that these findings can point toward societal-level intervention strategies for increasing physical activity and decreasing inactivity among adolescents. study design and methodology the study population consists of nationally representative data from the 1996 national longitudinal study of adolescent health on 17 766 us adolescents enrolled in us middle and high schools (including 3933 non-hispanic blacks  3148 hispanics  and 1337 asians). hours/week of inactivity (tv/video viewing and video/computer games) and times/week of moderate to vigorous physical activity were collected by questionnaire. outcome variables were moderate to vigorous physical activity and inactivity  which were broken into categories (physical activity: 0-2 times/week  3-4 times/week  and >/=5 times/week; inactivity: 0-10 hours/week  11-24 hours/week  and >/=25 hours/week). sociodemographic and environmental correlates of physical activity and inactivity were used as exposure and control variables and included sex  age  urban residence  participation in school physical education program  use of community recreation center  total reported incidents of serious crime in neighborhood  socioeconomic status  ethnicity  generation of residence in the united states  presence of mother/father in household  pregnancy status  work status  in-school status  region  and month of interview. logistic regression models of high versus low and medium physical activity and inactivity were used to investigate sex and ethnic interactions in relation to environmental and sociodemographic factors to examine evidence for the potential impact of physical education and recreation programs and sociodemographic factors on physical activity and inactivity patterns. results moderate to vigorous physical activity was lower and inactivity higher for non-hispanic black and hispanic adolescents. participation in school physical education programs was considerably low for these adolescents and decreased with age. participation in daily school physical education (pe) program classes (adjusted odds ratio [aor]: 2.21; confidence interval [ci]: 1.82-2.68) and use of a community recreation center (aor: 1.75; ci: 1.56-1.96) were associated with an increased likelihood of engaging in high level moderate to vigorous physical activity. maternal education was inversely associated with high inactivity patterns; for example  having a mother with a graduate or professional degree was associated with an aor of.61 (ci:.48-.76) for high inactivity. high family income was associated with increased moderate to vigorous physical activity (aor: 1.43; ci: 1.22-1.67) and decreased inactivity (aor:.70; ci:.59-.82). high neighborhood serious crime level was associated with a decreased likelihood of falling in the highest category of moderate to vigorous physical activity (aor:.77; ci:.66-.91). conclusions these results show important associations between modifiable environmental factors  such as participation in school pe and community recreation programs  with activity patterns of adolescents. despite the marked and significant impact of participation in school pe programs on physical activity patterns of us adolescents  few adolescents participated in such school pe programs; only 21.3% of all adolescents
2146,oxidative damage of dna confers resistance to cytosolic nuclease trex1 degradation and potentiates sting-dependent immune sensing.,immune sensing of dna is critical for antiviral immunity but can also trigger autoimmune diseases such as lupus erythematosus (le). here we have provided evidence for the involvement of a damage-associated dna modification in the detection of cytosolic dna. the oxidized base 8-hydroxyguanosine (8-ohg)  a marker of oxidative damage in dna  potentiated cytosolic immune recognition by decreasing its susceptibility to 3' repair exonuclease 1 (trex1)-mediated degradation. oxidizative modifications arose physiologically in pathogen dna during lysosomal reactive oxygen species (ros) exposure  as well as in neutrophil extracellular trap (net) dna during the oxidative burst. 8-ohg was also abundant in uv-exposed skin lesions of le patients and colocalized with type i interferon (ifn). injection of oxidized dna in the skin of lupus-prone mice induced lesions that closely matched respective lesions in patients. thus  oxidized dna represents a prototypic damage-associated molecular pattern (damp) with important implications for infection  sterile inflammation  and autoimmunity.
2148,hematopoietic stem cell: self-renewal versus differentiation.,the mammalian blood system  containing more than 10 distinct mature cell types  stands on one specific cell type  hematopoietic stem cell (hsc). within the system  only hscs possess the ability of both multipotency and self-renewal. multipotency is the ability to differentiate into all functional blood cells. self-renewal is the ability to give rise to hsc itself without differentiation. since mature blood cells (mbcs) are predominantly short-lived  hscs continuously provide more differentiated progenitors while properly maintaining the hsc pool size throughout life by precisely balancing self-renewal and differentiation. thus  understanding the mechanisms of self-renewal and differentiation of hsc has been a central issue. in this review  we focus on the hierarchical structure of the hematopoietic system  the current understanding of microenvironment and molecular cues regulating self-renewal and differentiation of adult hscs  and the currently emerging systems approaches to understand hsc biology.
2150,a synthetic escherichia coli predator–prey ecosystem,we have constructed a synthetic ecosystem consisting of two escherichia coli populations  which communicate bi-directionally through quorum sensing and regulate each other's gene expression and survival via engineered gene circuits. our synthetic ecosystem resembles canonical predator-prey systems in terms of logic and dynamics. the predator cells kill the prey by inducing expression of a killer protein in the prey  while the prey rescue the predators by eliciting expression of an antidote protein in the predator. extinction  coexistence and oscillatory dynamics of the predator and prey populations are possible depending on the operating conditions as experimentally validated by long-term culturing of the system in microchemostats. a simple mathematical model is developed to capture these system dynamics. coherent interplay between experiments and mathematical analysis enables exploration of the dynamics of interacting populations in a predictable manner.
2152,cystine/glutamate exchange regulates metabotropic glutamate receptor presynaptic inhibition of excitatory transmission and vulnerability to cocaine seeking.,withdrawal from chronic cocaine reduces extracellular glutamate levels in the nucleus accumbens by decreasing cystine/glutamate exchange (xc-). activating xc- with n-acetylcysteine restores extracellular glutamate and prevents cocaine-induced drug seeking. it was hypothesized that the activation of xc- prevents drug seeking by increasing glutamatergic tone on presynaptic group ii metabotropic glutamate receptors (mglur2/3) and thereby inhibiting excitatory transmission. in the first experiment  the capacity of glutamate derived from xc- to regulate excitatory transmission via mglur2/3 was determined. physiological levels of cystine (100-300 nm) were restored to acute tissue slices from the nucleus accumbens or prefrontal cortex. cystine increased glutamate efflux and decreased miniature epsc (mepsc) and spontaneous epsc (sepsc) frequency as well as evoked epsc amplitude. these effects of cystine were presynaptic  because there was no change in mepsc or sepsc amplitude  and an increase in the evoked epsc paired-pulse facilitation ratio. the cystine-induced reduction in epscs was reversed by blocking either xc- or mglur2/3. in the second experiment  blocking mglur2/3 prevented the ability of n-acetylcystine to inhibit the reinstatement of drug seeking in rats trained to self-administer cocaine. these data demonstrate that nonsynaptic glutamate derived from xc- modulates synaptic glutamate release and thereby regulates cocaine-induced drug seeking.
2154,control of interneuron dendritic growth through nrg1/erbb4-mediated kalirin-7 disinhibition,neuregulin 1 (nrg1) is a secreted trophic factor that activates the postsynaptic erbb4 receptor tyrosine kinase. both nrg1 and erbb4 have been repeatedly associated with schizophrenia  but their downstream targets are not well characterized. erbb4 is highly abundant in interneurons  and nrg1-mediated erbb4 activation has been shown to modulate interneuron function  but the role for nrg1-erbb4 signaling in regulating interneuron dendritic growth is not well understood. here we show that nrg1/erbb4 promote the growth of dendrites in mature interneurons through kalirin  a major dendritic rac1-gef. recent studies have shown associations of the kalrn gene with schizophrenia. our data point to an essential role of phosphorylation in kalirin-7's c terminus as the critical site for these effects. as reduced interneuron dendrite length occurs in schizophrenia  understanding how nrg1-erbb4 signaling modulates interneuron dendritic morphogenesis might shed light on disease-related alterations in cortical circuits.
2156,perspectives on public health workforce research.,the centers for disease control and prevention office of workforce and career development is committed to developing a competent  sustainable  and diverse public health workforce through evidence-based training  career and leadership development  and strategic workforce planning to improve population health outcomes. this article reviews the previous efforts in identifying priorities of public health workforce research  which are summarized as eight major research themes. we outline a strategic framework for public health workforce research that includes six functional areas (ie  definition and standards  data  methodology  evaluation  policy  and dissemination and translation). to conceptualize and prioritize development of an actionable public health research agenda  we constructed a matrix of key challenges in workforce analysis by public health workforce categories. extensive reviews were conducted to identify valuable methods  models  and approaches to public health workforce research. we explore new tools and approaches for addressing priority areas for public health workforce and career development research and assess how tools from multiple disciplines of social sciences can guide the development of a research framework for advancing public health workforce research and policy.
2158,relative expression results in real-time,real-time reverse transcription followed by polymerase chain reaction (rt-pcr) is the most suitable method for the detection and quantification of mrna. it offers high sensitivity  good reproducibility and a wide quantification range. today  relative expression is increasingly used  where the expression of a target gene is standardised by a non-regulated reference gene. several mathematical algorithms have been developed to compute an expression ratio  based on real-time pcr efficiency and the crossing point deviation of an unknown sample versus a control. but all published equations and available models for the calculation of relative expression ratio allow only for the determination of a single transcription difference between one control and one sample. therefore a new software tool was established  named rest (relative expression software tool)  which compares two groups  with up to 16 data points in a sample and 16 in a control group  for reference and up to four target genes. the mathematical model used is based on the pcr efficiencies and the mean crossing point deviation between the sample and control group. subsequently  the expression ratio results of the four investigated transcripts are tested for significance by a randomisation test. herein  development and application of rest is explained and the usefulness of relative expression in real-time pcr using rest is discussed. the latest software version of rest and examples for the correct use can be downloaded at http://www.wzw.tum.de/gene-quantification/.
2160,prevalence and cardiovascular disease correlates of low cardiorespiratory fitness in adolescents and adults.,context population surveys indicate that physical activity levels are low in the united states. one consequence of inactivity  low cardiorespiratory fitness  is an established risk factor for cardiovascular disease (cvd) morbidity and mortality  but the prevalence of cardiorespiratory fitness has not been quantified in representative us population samples. objectives to describe the prevalence of low fitness in the us population aged 12 through 49 years and to relate low fitness to cvd risk factors in this population. design  setting  and participants inception cohort study using data from the cross-sectional nationally representative national health and nutrition examination survey 1999-2002. participants were adolescents (aged 12-19 years; n = 3110) and adults (aged 20-49 years; n = 2205) free from previously diagnosed cvd who underwent submaximal graded exercise treadmill testing to achieve at least 75% to 90% of their age-predicted maximum heart rate. maximal oxygen consumption (vo2max) was estimated by measuring the heart rate response to reference levels of submaximal work. main outcome measures low fitness defined using percentile cut points of estimated vo2max from existing external referent populations; anthropometric and other cvd risk factors measured according to standard methods. results low fitness was identified in 33.6% of adolescents (approximately 7.5 million us adolescents) and 13.9% of adults (approximately 8.5 million us adults); the prevalence was similar in adolescent females (34.4%) and males (32.9%) (p = .40) but was higher in adult females (16.2%) than in males (11.8%) (p = .03). non-hispanic blacks and mexican americans were less fit than non-hispanic whites. in all age-sex groups  body mass index and waist circumference were inversely associated with fitness; age- and race-adjusted odds ratios of overweight or obesity (body mass index > or =25) ranged from 2.1 to 3.7 (p<.01 for all)  comparing persons with low fitness with those with moderate or high fitness. total cholesterol levels and systolic blood pressure were higher and levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol were lower among participants with low vs high fitness. conclusion low fitness in adolescents and adults is common in the us population and is associated with an increased prevalence of cvd risk factors.
2162,vegf inhibits tumor cell invasion and mesenchymal transition through a met/vegfr2 complex.,inhibition of vegf signaling leads to a proinvasive phenotype in mouse models of glioblastoma multiforme (gbm) and in a subset of gbm patients treated with bevacizumab. here  we demonstrate that vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) directly and negatively regulates tumor cell invasion through enhanced recruitment of the protein tyrosine phosphatase 1b (ptp1b) to a met/vegfr2 heterocomplex  thereby suppressing hgf-dependent met phosphorylation and tumor cell migration. consequently  vegf blockade restores and increases met activity in gbm cells in a hypoxia-independent manner  while inducing a program reminiscent of epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition highlighted by a t-cadherin to n-cadherin switch and enhanced mesenchymal features. inhibition of met in gbm mouse models blocks mesenchymal transition and invasion provoked by vegf ablation  resulting in substantial survival benefit.
2164,ssea-1 is an enrichment marker for tumor-initiating cells in human glioblastoma.,cd133+ populations of human glioblastoma multiforme (gbm) cells are reportedly enriched for tumor stem cells (tscs) or tumor-initiating cells (tics). approximately 40% of freshly isolated gbm specimens  however  do not contain cd133+ tumor cells  raising the possibility that cd133 may not be a universal enrichment marker for gbm tscs/tics. here we demonstrate that stage-specific embryonic antigen 1(ssea-1/lex)+ gbm cells fulfill the functional criteria for tsc/tic  since (1) ssea-1+ cells are highly tumorigenic in vivo  unlike ssea-1- cells; (2) ssea-1+ cells can give rise to both ssea-1+ and ssea-1- cells  thereby establishing a cellular hierarchy; and (3) ssea-1+ cells have self-renewal and multilineage differentiation potentials. a distinct subpopulation of ssea-1+ cells was present in all but one of the primary gbms examined (n = 24)  and most cd133+ tumor cells were also ssea-1+  suggesting that ssea-1 may be a general tsc/tic enrichment marker in human gbms.
2166,molecularly targeted therapy based on tumour molecular profiling versus conventional therapy for advanced cancer (shiva): a multicentre  open-label  proof-of-concept  randomised  controlled phase 2 trial.,background molecularly targeted agents have been reported to have anti-tumour activity for patients whose tumours harbour the matching molecular alteration. these results have led to increased off-label use of molecularly targeted agents on the basis of identified molecular alterations. we assessed the efficacy of several molecularly targeted agents marketed in france  which were chosen on the basis of tumour molecular profiling but used outside their indications  in patients with advanced cancer for whom standard-of-care therapy had failed. methods the open-label  randomised  controlled phase 2 shiva trial was done at eight french academic centres. we included adult patients with any kind of metastatic solid tumour refractory to standard of care  provided they had an eastern cooperative oncology group performance status of 0 or 1  disease that was accessible for a biopsy or resection of a metastatic site  and at least one measurable lesion. the molecular profile of each patient's tumour was established with a mandatory biopsy of a metastatic tumour and large-scale genomic testing. we only included patients for whom a molecular alteration was identified within one of three molecular pathways (hormone receptor  pi3k/akt/mtor  raf/mek)  which could be matched to one of ten regimens including 11 available molecularly targeted agents (erlotinib  lapatinib plus trastuzumab  sorafenib  imatinib  dasatinib  vemurafenib  everolimus  abiraterone  letrozole  tamoxifen). we randomly assigned these patients (1:1) to receive a matched molecularly targeted agent (experimental group) or treatment at physician's choice (control group) by central block randomisation (blocks of size six). randomisation was done centrally with a web-based response system and was stratified according to the royal marsden hospital prognostic score (0 or 1 vs 2 or 3) and the altered molecular pathway. clinicians and patients were not masked to treatment allocation. treatments in both groups were given in accordance with the approved product information and standard practice protocols at each institution and were continued until evidence of disease progression. the primary endpoint was progression-free survival in the intention-to-treat population  which was not assessed by independent central review. we assessed safety in any patients who received at least one dose of their assigned treatment. this trial is registered with clinicaltrials.gov  number nct01771458. findings between oct 4  2012  and july 11  2014  we screened 741 patients with any tumour type. 293 (40%) patients had at least one molecular alteration matching one of the 10 available regimens. at the time of data cutoff  jan 20  2015  195 (26%) patients had been randomly assigned  with 99 in the experimental group and 96 in the control group. all patients in the experimental group started treatment  as did 92 in the control group. two patients in the control group received a molecularly targeted agent: both were included in their assigned group for efficacy analyses  the patient who received an agent that was allowed in the experimental group was included in the experimental group for the purposes of safety analyses  while the other patient  who received a molecularly targeted agent and chemotherapy  was kept in the control group for safety analyses. median follow-up was 11·3 months (iqr 5·8-11·6) in the experimental group and 11·3 months (8·1-11·6) in the control group at the time of the primary analysis of progression-free survival. median progression-free survival was 2·3 months (95% ci 1·7-3·8) in the experimental group versus 2·0 months (1·8-2·1) in the control group (hazard ratio 0·88  95% ci 0·65-1·19  p=0·41). in the safety population  43 (43%) of 100 patients treated with a molecularly targeted agent and 32 (35%) of 91 patients treated with cytotoxic chemotherapy had grade 3-4 adverse events (p=0·30). interpretation the use of molecularly targeted agents outside their indications does not improve progression-free survival compared with treatment at physician's choice in heavily pretreated patients with cancer. off-label use of molecularly targeted agents should be discouraged  but enrolment in clinical trials should be encouraged to assess predictive biomarkers of efficacy.
2168,ancient hybridization and an irish origin for the modern polar bear matriline,background polar bears (ursus maritimus) are among those species most susceptible to the rapidly changing arctic climate  and their survival is of global concern. despite this  little is known about polar bear species history. future conservation strategies would significantly benefit from an understanding of basic evolutionary information  such as the timing and conditions of their initial divergence from brown bears (u. arctos) or their response to previous environmental change. results we used a spatially explicit phylogeographic model to estimate the dynamics of 242 brown bear and polar bear matrilines sampled throughout the last 120 000 years and across their present and past geographic ranges. our results show that the present distribution of these matrilines was shaped by a combination of regional stability and rapid  long-distance dispersal from ice-age refugia. in addition  hybridization between polar bears and brown bears may have occurred multiple times throughout the late pleistocene. conclusions the reconstructed matrilineal history of brown and polar bears has two striking features. first  it is punctuated by dramatic and discrete climate-driven dispersal events. second  opportunistic mating between these two species as their ranges overlapped has left a strong genetic imprint. in particular  a likely genetic exchange with extinct irish brown bears forms the origin of the modern polar bear matriline. this suggests that interspecific hybridization not only may be more common than previously considered but may be a mechanism by which species deal with marginal habitats during periods of environmental deterioration.
2170,hypoglycemic episodes and risk of dementia in older patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.,context although acute hypoglycemia may be associated with cognitive impairment in children with type 1 diabetes  no studies to date have evaluated whether hypoglycemia is a risk factor for dementia in older patients with type 2 diabetes. objective to determine if hypoglycemic episodes severe enough to require hospitalization are associated with an increased risk of dementia in a population of older patients with type 2 diabetes followed up for 27 years. design  setting  and patients a longitudinal cohort study from 1980-2007 of 16 667 patients with a mean age of 65 years and type 2 diabetes who are members of an integrated health care delivery system in northern california. main outcome measure hypoglycemic events from 1980-2002 were collected and reviewed using hospital discharge and emergency department diagnoses. cohort members with no prior diagnoses of dementia  mild cognitive impairment  or general memory complaints as of january 1  2003  were followed up for a dementia diagnosis through january 15  2007. dementia risk was examined using cox proportional hazard regression models  adjusted for age  sex  race/ethnicity  education  body mass index  duration of diabetes  7-year mean glycated hemoglobin  diabetes treatment  duration of insulin use  hyperlipidemia  hypertension  cardiovascular disease  stroke  transient cerebral ischemia  and end-stage renal disease. results at least 1 episode of hypoglycemia was diagnosed in 1465 patients (8.8%) and dementia was diagnosed in 1822 patients (11%) during follow-up; 250 patients had both dementia and at least 1 episode of hypoglycemia (16.95%). compared with patients with no hypoglycemia  patients with single or multiple episodes had a graded increase in risk with fully adjusted hazard ratios (hrs): for 1 episode (hr  1.26; 95% confidence interval [ci]  1.10-1.49); 2 episodes (hr  1.80; 95% ci  1.37-2.36); and 3 or more episodes (hr  1.94; 95% ci  1.42-2.64). the attributable risk of dementia between individuals with and without a history of hypoglycemia was 2.39% per year (95% ci  1.72%-3.01%). results were not attenuated when medical utilization rates  length of health plan membership  or time since initial diabetes diagnosis were added to the model. when examining emergency department admissions for hypoglycemia for association with risk of dementia (535 episodes)  results were similar (compared with patients with 0 episodes) with fully adjusted hrs: for 1 episode (hr  1.42; 95% ci  1.12-1.78) and for 2 or more episodes (hr  2.36; 95% ci  1.57-3.55). conclusions among older patients with type 2 diabetes  a history of severe hypoglycemic episodes was associated with a greater risk of dementia. whether minor hypoglycemic episodes increase risk of dementia is unknown.
2172,microrna-7: a mirna with expanding roles in development and disease.,micrornas (mirnas) are a family of short  non-coding rna molecules (∼22nt) involved in post-transcriptional control of gene expression. they act via base-pairing with mrna transcripts that harbour target sequences  resulting in accelerated mrna decay and/or translational attenuation. given mirnas mediate the expression of molecules involved in many aspects of normal cell development and functioning  it is not surprising that aberrant mirna expression is closely associated with many human diseases. their pivotal role in driving a range of normal cellular physiology as well as pathological processes has established mirnas as potential therapeutics  as well as potential diagnostic and prognostic tools in human health. microrna-7 (mir-7) is a highly conserved mirna which displays restricted spatiotemporal expression during development and in maturity. in humans and mice  mature mir-7 is generated from three different genes  illustrating unexpected redundancy and also the importance of this mirna in regulating key cellular processes. in this review we examine the expanding role of mir-7 in the context of health  with emphasis on organ differentiation and development  as well as in various mammalian diseases  particularly of the brain  heart  endocrine pancreas and skin  as well as in cancer. the more we learn about mir-7  the more we realise the complexity of its regulation and potential functional application both from a biomarker and therapeutic perspective.
2174,in vivo crispr/cas9 gene editing corrects retinal dystrophy in the s334ter-3 rat model of autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa,reliable genome editing via clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeat (crispr)/cas9 may provide a means to correct inherited diseases in patients. as proof of principle  we show that crispr/cas9 can be used in vivo to selectively ablate the rhodopsin gene carrying the dominant s334ter mutation (rho(s334)) in rats that model severe autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa. a single subretinal injection of guide rna/cas9 plasmid in combination with electroporation generated allele-specific disruption of rho(s334)  which prevented retinal degeneration and improved visual function.
2176,novel syndromes associated with jc virus infection of neurons and meningeal cells: no longer a gray area.,purpose of review the availability of a growing number of immunomodulatory medications over the past few years has been associated with various jc virus (jcv)-associated brain syndromes in patients with autoimmune diseases  including multiple sclerosis  crohn's disease  and psoriasis that had not been previously recognized as predisposing factors for progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. this review covers the three novel syndromes discovered in the last decade that are caused by jcv infection of neurons and meningeal cells. recent findings for more than 30 years  jcv was thought to exclusively infect oligodendrocytes and astrocytes in the white matter of the brain of immunosuppressed individuals. we now recognize that jcv-infected glial cells are frequently located at the gray-white matter junction or exclusively within the gray matter causing demyelination in the cortex. mutations in jcv can trigger a change in tropism leading to involvement of other cell types  such as neurons and meningeal cells  causing clinically distinct entities. these new features of jcv infection provide challenges for clinicians taking care of affected patients and investigators studying the biology of this polyomavirus  its pathogenesis  and tropism. summary we hope that increasing awareness of these syndromes will lead to early diagnosis  and pave the way for new avenues of research to better understand all aspects of jcv pathogenesis and develop efficient therapies for our patients. however  we need to remain vigilant and open to the possibility that additional jc variants or yet unknown polyomaviruses may also be associated with neurological diseases.
2178,complementary foods for infant feeding in developing countries: their nutrient adequacy and improvement,objective: to assess the energy and nutrient adequacy of a variety of complementary foods used in parts of africa  india  papua new guinea  the philippines and thailand. method: the energy  nutrient and anti-nutrient (dietary fibre and phytic acid) content (per 100 g as eaten  per 100 kcal  and per day) of twenty-three plant-based complementary foods consumed in developing countries was calculated from food composition values based on chemical analysis for the trace minerals  non-starch polysaccharide and phytic acid  and the literature. results were compared with the estimated nutrient needs (per day; per 100 kcal) from complementary foods for infants 9–11 months  assuming a breast milk intake of average volume and composition and three complementary feedings per day  each of 250 g. results: complementary foods should provide approximately 25–50% of total daily requirements for protein  riboflavin and copper; 50–75% for thiamin  calcium and manganese; and 75–100% for phosphorus  zinc and iron. most or all appear to meet the estimated daily nutrient needs (per day; per 100 kcal) from complementary foods for protein  thiamin and copper (per day)  but not for calcium  iron  and in some cases zinc  even if moderate bioavailability for iron and zinc is assumed. some of those based on rice are also inadequate in riboflavin (per day; per 100 kcal).conclusions: even if strategies to improve the bioavailability of iron and zinc are employed  they are probably insufficient to overcome the deficits in calcium  iron and zinc. therefore  research on the feasibility of fortifying plant-based complementary foods in developing countries with calcium  iron and zinc is urgently required. sponsorship: this study was supported by the micronutrient initiative through the canadian international development agency.
2180,a self-inactivating lentiviral vector for scid-x1 gene therapy that does not activate lmo2 expression in human t cells.,to develop safer and more effective vectors for gene therapy of x-linked severe combined immunodeficiency (scid-x1)  we have evaluated new self-inactivating lentiviral vectors based on the hiv virus. the cl20i4-hgamma(c)-revgen vector contains the entire human common gamma chain (gamma(c)) genomic sequence driven by the gamma(c) promoter. the cl20i4-ef1alpha-hgamma(c)opt vector uses a promoter fragment from the eukaryotic elongation factor alpha (ef1alpha) gene to express a codon-optimized human gamma(c) cdna. both vectors contain a 400-bp insulator fragment from the chicken beta-globin locus within the self-inactivating long-terminal repeat. transduction of bone marrow cells using either of these vectors restored t  b  and natural killer lymphocyte development and function in a mouse scid-x1 transplantation model. transduction of human cd34(+) bone marrow cells from scid-x1 patients with either vector restored t-cell development in an in vitro assay. in safety studies using a jurkat lmo2 activation assay  only the cl20i4-ef1alpha-hgamma(c)opt vector lacked the ability to transactivate lmo2 protein expression  whereas the cl20i4-hgamma(c)-revgen vector significantly activated lmo2 protein expression. in addition  the cl20i4-ef1alpha-hgamma(c)opt vector has not caused any tumors in transplanted mice. we conclude that the cl20i4-ef1alpha-hgamma(c)opt vector may be suitable for testing in a clinical trial based on these preclinical demonstrations of efficacy and safety.
2182,spare respiratory capacity rather than oxidative stress regulates glutamate excitotoxicity after partial respiratory inhibition of mitochondrial complex i with rotenone.,partial inhibition of mitochondrial respiratory complex i by rotenone reproduces aspects of parkinson's disease in rodents. the hypothesis that rotenone enhancement of neuronal cell death is attributable to oxidative stress was tested in an acute glutamate excitotoxicity model using primary cultures of rat cerebellar granule neurons. as little as 5 nm rotenone increased mitochondrial superoxide (o2*-) levels and potentiated glutamate-induced cytoplasmic ca2+ deregulation  the first irreversible stage of necrotic cell death. however  the potent cell-permeant o2*- trap manganese tetrakis (n-ethylpyridinium-2yl) porphyrin failed to prevent the effects of the inhibitor. the bioenergetic consequences of rotenone addition were quantified by monitoring cell respiration. glutamate activation of nmda receptors used the full respiratory capacity of the in situ mitochondria  and >80% of the glutamate-stimulated respiration was attributable to increased cellular atp demand. rotenone at 20 nm inhibited basal and carbonyl cyanide p-trifluoromethoxyphenylhydrazone-stimulated cell respiration and caused respiratory failure in the presence of glutamate. atp synthase inhibition by oligomycin was also toxic in the presence of glutamate. we conclude that the cell vulnerability in the rotenone model of partial complex i deficiency under these specific conditions is primarily determined by spare respiratory capacity rather than oxidative stress.
2184,combinatorial control of exon recognition.,pre-mrna splicing is a fundamental process required for the expression of most metazoan genes. it is carried out by the spliceosome  which catalyzes the removal of noncoding intronic sequences to assemble exons into mature mrnas prior to export and translation. given the complexity of higher eukaryotic genes and the relatively low level of splice site conservation  the precision of the splicing machinery in recognizing and pairing splice sites is impressive. introns ranging in size from <100 up to 100 000 bases are removed efficiently. at the same time  a large number of alternative splicing events are observed between different cell types  during development  or during other biological processes. this extensive alternative splicing implies a significant flexibility of the spliceosome to identify and process exons within a given pre-mrna. to reach this flexibility  splice site selection in higher eukaryotes has evolved to depend on multiple parameters such as splice site strength  the presence or absence of splicing regulators  rna secondary structures  the exon/intron architecture  and the process of pre-mrna synthesis itself. the relative contributions of each of these parameters control how efficiently splice sites are recognized and flanking introns are removed.
2186,a small molecule modulates jumonji histone demethylase activity and selectively inhibits cancer growth,the pharmacological inhibition of general transcriptional regulators has the potential to block growth through targeting multiple tumorigenic signalling pathways simultaneously. here  using an innovative cell-based screen  we identify a structurally unique small molecule (named jib-04) that specifically inhibits the activity of the jumonji family of histone demethylases in vitro  in cancer cells  and in tumours in vivo. unlike known inhibitors  jib-04 is not a competitive inhibitor of α-ketoglutarate. in cancer  but not in patient-matched normal cells  jib-04 alters a subset of transcriptional pathways and blocks viability. in mice  jib-04 reduces tumour burden and prolongs survival. importantly  we find that patients with breast tumours that overexpress jumonji demethylases have significantly lower survival. thus  jib-04  a novel inhibitor of jumonji demethylases in vitro and in vivo  constitutes a unique potential therapeutic and research tool against cancer  and validates the use of unbiased cellular screens to discover chemical modulators with disease relevance.
2188,the bloom's syndrome gene product is homologous to recq helicases,the bloom's syndrome (bs) gene  blm  plays an important role in the maintenance of genomic stability in somatic cells. a candidate for blm was identified by direct selection of a cdna derived from a 250 kb segment of the genome to which blm had been assigned by somatic crossover point mapping. in this novel mapping method  cells were used from persons with bs that had undergone intragenic recombination within blm. cdna analysis of the candidate gene identified a 4437 bp cdna that encodes a 1417 amino acid peptide with homology to the recq helicases  a subfamily of dexh box-containing dna and rna helicases. the presence of chain-terminating mutations in the candidate gene in persons with bs proved that it was blm.
2190,culture of preimplantation mouse embryos affects fetal development and the expression of imprinted genes1,abstract culture of preimplantation mammalian embryos and cells can influence their subsequent growth and differentiation. previously  we reported that culture of mouse embryonic stem cells is associated with deregulation of genomic imprinting and affects the potential for these cells to develop into normal fetuses. the purpose of our current study was to determine whether culture of preimplantation mouse embryos in a chemically defined medium (m16) with or without fetal calf serum (fcs) can affect their subsequent development and imprinted gene expression. only one third of the blastocysts that had been cultured from two-cell embryos in m16 medium complemented with fcs developed into viable day 14 fetuses after transfer into recipients. these m16 + fcs fetuses were reduced in weight as compared with controls and m16 fetuses and had decreased expression of the imprinted h19 and insulin-like growth factor 2 genes associated with a gain of dna methylation at an imprinting control region upstream of h19. they also displayed increased expression of the imprinted gene grb10. the growth factor receptor binding gene grb7  in contrast  was strongly reduced in its expression in most of the m16 + fcs fetuses. no alterations were detected for the imprinted gene mest. preimplantation culture in the presence of serum can influence the regulation of multiple growth-related imprinted genes  thus leading to aberrant fetal growth and development.
2192,a new look at the heart in diabetes mellitus: from ailing to failing,this review discusses some of the mechanisms inherent in diabetes that predispose patients to increased cardiac morbidity and mortality. single photon emission computerized tomography or photon emission tomography with radioactive labeled analogues of norepinephrine have shown that cardiac sympathetic dysfunction and incompetence are early and also late abnormalities in patients with type i (insulin-dependent) and type ii (non-insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus. furthermore  myocardial blood flow assessment with photon emission tomography has shown that in patients without myocardial perfusion deficits  endothelial-dependent vasodilatation is severely reduced in relation to cardiac sympathetic dysfunction. in addition  signs of endothelial activation have also been found early in patients with type i and type ii diabetes in whom vascular disease has not been clinically detected. this activation in conjunction with glycaemic control is important in determining macrovascular mortality. cardiac sympathetic dysfunction is partially restored to normal with near normalisation of glycaemia. interpretations. recently unrecognized “subtle” changes predispose the heart to failure  after ischaemia-induced remodelling  and arteriosclerotic plaques to instability and rupture. these changes act in conjunction with effects  driven by hyperglycaemia and diabetes  on the endothelium of large blood vessels  e. g. on nitric oxide release or on protein kinase-c β activation. meticulous glucose control early on and rapid recompensation of hyperglycaemia in patients with acute coronary syndrome are part of a successful intensive multifactorial approach to prevent the heart in diabetes converting from ailing to failing. [diabetologia (2000) 43: 1455–1469]
2194,physiological astrocytic calcium levels stimulate glutamate release to modulate adjacent neurons.,astrocytes can release glutamate in a calcium-dependent manner and consequently signal to adjacent neurons. whether this glutamate release pathway is used during physiological signaling or is recruited only under pathophysiological conditions is not well defined. one reason for this lack of understanding is the limited knowledge about the levels of calcium necessary to stimulate glutamate release from astrocytes and about how they compare with the range of physiological calcium levels in these cells. we used flash photolysis to raise internal calcium in astrocytes  while monitoring astrocytic calcium levels and glutamate  which evoked slow inward currents that were recorded electrophysiologically from single neurons grown on microislands of astrocytes. with this approach  we demonstrate that modest changes of astrocytic calcium  from 84 to 140 nm  evoke substantial glutamatergic currents in neighboring neurons (-391 pa)  with a hill coefficient of 2.1 to 2.7. because the agonists glutamate  norepinephrine  and dopamine all raise calcium in astrocytes to levels exceeding 1.8 microm  these quantitative studies demonstrate that the astrocytic glutamate release pathway is engaged at physiological levels of internal calcium. consequently  the calcium-dependent release of glutamate from astrocytes functions within an appropriate range of astrocytic calcium levels to be used as a signaling pathway within the functional nervous system.
2196,advances in functional and structural mr image analysis and implementation as fsl,the techniques available for the interrogation and analysis of neuroimaging data have a large influence in determining the flexibility  sensitivity  and scope of neuroimaging experiments. the development of such methodologies has allowed investigators to address scientific questions that could not previously be answered and  as such  has become an important research area in its own right. in this paper  we present a review of the research carried out by the analysis group at the oxford centre for functional mri of the brain (fmrib). this research has focussed on the development of new methodologies for the analysis of both structural and functional magnetic resonance imaging data. the majority of the research laid out in this paper has been implemented as freely available software tools within fmrib's software library (fsl).
2198,characteristics of the earliest cross-neutralizing antibody response to hiv-1,recent cross-sectional analyses of hiv-1+ plasmas have indicated that broadly cross-reactive neutralizing antibody responses are developed by 10%-30% of hiv-1+ subjects. the timing of the initial development of such anti-viral responses is unknown. it is also unknown whether the emergence of these responses coincides with the appearance of antibody specificities to a single or multiple regions of the viral envelope glycoprotein (env). here we analyzed the cross-neutralizing antibody responses in longitudinal plasmas collected soon after and up to seven years after hiv-1 infection. we find that anti-hiv-1 cross-neutralizing antibody responses first become evident on average at 2.5 years and  in rare cases  as early as 1 year following infection. if cross-neutralizing antibody responses do not develop during the first 2-3 years of infection  they most likely will not do so subsequently. our results indicate a potential link between the development of cross-neutralizing antibody responses and specific activation markers on t cells  and with plasma viremia levels. the earliest cross-neutralizing antibody response targets a limited number of env regions  primarily the cd4-binding site and epitopes that are not present on monomeric env  but on the virion-associated trimeric env form. in contrast  the neutralizing activities of plasmas from subjects that did not develop cross-neutralizing antibody responses target epitopes on monomeric gp120 other than the cd4-bs. our study provides information that is not only relevant to better understanding the interaction of the human immune system with hiv but may guide the development of effective immunization protocols. since antibodies to complex epitopes that are present on the virion-associated envelope spike appear to be key components of earliest cross-neutralizing activities of hiv-1+ plasmas  then emphasis should be made to elicit similar antibodies by vaccination.
2200,yap/taz-dependent reprogramming of colonic epithelium links ecm remodeling to tissue regeneration,tissue regeneration requires dynamic cellular adaptation to the wound environment. it is currently unclear how this is orchestrated at the cellular level and how cell fate is affected by severe tissue damage. here we dissect cell fate transitions during colonic regeneration in a mouse dextran sulfate sodium (dss) colitis model  and we demonstrate that the epithelium is transiently reprogrammed into a primitive state. this is characterized by de novo expression of fetal markers as well as suppression of markers for adult stem and differentiated cells. the fate change is orchestrated by remodeling the extracellular matrix (ecm)  increased fak/src signaling  and ultimately yap/taz activation. in a defined cell culture system recapitulating the extracellular matrix remodeling observed in vivo  we show that a collagen 3d matrix supplemented with wnt ligands is sufficient to sustain endogenous yap/taz and induce conversion of cell fate. this provides a simple model for tissue regeneration  implicating cellular reprogramming as an essential element.
2202,mfold web server for nucleic acid folding and hybridization prediction,the abbreviated name  'mfold web server'  describes a number of closely related software applications available on the world wide web (www) for the prediction of the secondary structure of single stranded nucleic acids. the objective of this web server is to provide easy access to rna and dna folding and hybridization software to the scientific community at large. by making use of universally available web guis (graphical user interfaces)  the server circumvents the problem of portability of this software. detailed output  in the form of structure plots with or without reliability information  single strand frequency plots and 'energy dot plots'  are available for the folding of single sequences. a variety of 'bulk' servers give less information  but in a shorter time and for up to hundreds of sequences at once. the portal for the mfold web server is http://www.bioinfo.rpi.edu/applications/mfold. this url will be referred to as 'mfoldroot'.
2204,association between biomarkers of ovarian reserve and infertility among older women of reproductive age,importance despite lack of evidence of their utility  biomarkers of ovarian reserve are being promoted as potential markers of reproductive potential. objective to determine the associations between biomarkers of ovarian reserve and reproductive potential among women of late reproductive age. design  setting  and participants prospective time-to-pregnancy cohort study (2008 to date of last follow-up in march 2016) of women (n = 981) aged 30 to 44 years without a history of infertility who had been trying to conceive for 3 months or less  recruited from the community in the raleigh-durham  north carolina  area. exposures early-follicular-phase serum level of antimüllerian hormone (amh)  follicle-stimulating hormone (fsh)  and inhibin b and urinary level of fsh. main outcomes and measures the primary outcomes were the cumulative probability of conception by 6 and 12 cycles of attempt and relative fecundability (probability of conception in a given menstrual cycle). conception was defined as a positive pregnancy test result. results a total of 750 women (mean age  33.3 [sd  3.2] years; 77% white; 36% overweight or obese) provided a blood and urine sample and were included in the analysis. after adjusting for age  body mass index  race  current smoking status  and recent hormonal contraceptive use  women with low amh values (<0.7 ng/ml [n = 84]) did not have a significantly different predicted probability of conceiving by 6 cycles of attempt (65%; 95% ci  50%-75%) compared with women (n = 579) with normal values (62%; 95% ci  57%-66%) or by 12 cycles of attempt (84% [95% ci  70%-91%] vs 75% [95% ci  70%-79%]  respectively). women with high serum fsh values (>10 miu/ml [n = 83]) did not have a significantly different predicted probability of conceiving after 6 cycles of attempt (63%; 95% ci  50%-73%) compared with women (n = 654) with normal values (62%; 95% ci  57%-66%) or after 12 cycles of attempt (82% [95% ci  70%-89%] vs 75% [95% ci  70%-78%]  respectively). women with high urinary fsh values (>11.5 miu/mg creatinine [n = 69]) did not have a significantly different predicted probability of conceiving after 6 cycles of attempt (61%; 95% ci  46%-74%) compared with women (n = 660) with normal values (62%; 95% ci  58%-66%) or after 12 cycles of attempt (70% [95% ci  54%-80%] vs 76% [95% ci  72%-80%]  respectively). inhibin b levels (n = 737) were not associated with the probability of conceiving in a given cycle (hazard ratio per 1-pg/ml increase  0.999; 95% ci  0.997-1.001). conclusions and relevance among women aged 30 to 44 years without a history of infertility who had been trying to conceive for 3 months or less  biomarkers indicating diminished ovarian reserve compared with normal ovarian reserve were not associated with reduced fertility. these findings do not support the use of urinary or blood follicle-stimulating hormone tests or antimüllerian hormone levels to assess natural fertility for women with these characteristics.
2206,generation of genetically modified mice by oocyte injection of androgenetic haploid embryonic stem cells,haploid cells are amenable for genetic analysis. recent success in the derivation of mouse haploid embryonic stem cells (haescs) via parthenogenesis has enabled genetic screening in mammalian cells. however  successful generation of live animals from these haescs  which is needed to extend the genetic analysis to the organism level  has not been achieved. here  we report the derivation of haescs from androgenetic blastocysts. these cells  designated as ag-haescs  partially maintain paternal imprints  express classical esc pluripotency markers  and contribute to various tissues  including the germline  upon injection into diploid blastocysts. strikingly  live mice can be obtained upon injection of ag-haescs into mii oocytes  and these mice bear haesc-carried genetic traits and develop into fertile adults. furthermore  gene targeting via homologous recombination is feasible in the ag-haescs. our results demonstrate that ag-haescs can be used as a genetically tractable fertilization agent for the production of live animals via injection into oocytes.
2208,place of care in advanced cancer: a qualitative systematic literature review of patient preferences.,background it is commonly written that more patients wish to die at home than currently achieve this. however  the evidence for preferences for place of terminal care and death has not been systematically reviewed. aim to carry out a systematic literature review of the preferences for place of care and death among advanced cancer patients. method studies were identified using systematic database searches of medline (1966-1999)  psychlit (1974-1999)  and bath information data service (bids) (1981-1999). studies were assessed and data extracted and synthesises following the nhs centre for reviews and dissemination guidelines  grading studies according to design and rigor of methods. studies of preferences in the general population and of groups including cancer patients and/or their caregivers were included. results eighteen studies determining preferences in either the general population or groups including cancer patients were identified. views were obtained prospectively and retrospectively from patients  the general population  families  and professionals. respondents indicated preferences for home death (range 49%-100%)  except one study of patients in the care of a continuing care team in london where only 25%-29% of patients wanted a home death  and inpatient hospice was the most favored option. however  the response rate of this study was not known. among the general public there was a higher preference for inpatient hospice care among in people with recent experience of a close friend or relative's death or dying. where the views of patients  families  and professionals were compared  all respondents broadly agreed although patients expressed the strongest home preferences. only 2 of the studies provided longitudinal data  and 9 of the 18 had major deficits in design or reporting  such as poor or unknown response rate  unclear or unsystematic methods of eliciting preferences or other sample or measurement bias. however  sensitivity analysis of only the more robust and larger studies did not alter the finding of a preference for home care at the end of life in over 50% of patients. conclusions home care is the most common preference  with inpatient hospice care as second preference in advanced illness. meeting these preferences could be important outcomes for services. study designs in this area need to be improved.
2210,decoding mammalian ribosome-mrna states by translational gtpase complexes,in eukaryotes  accurate protein synthesis relies on a family of translational gtpases that pair with specific decoding factors to decipher the mrna code on ribosomes. we present structures of the mammalian ribosome engaged with decoding factor⋅gtpase complexes representing intermediates of translation elongation (aminoacyl-trna⋅eef1a)  termination (erf1⋅erf3)  and ribosome rescue (pelota⋅hbs1l). comparative analyses reveal that each decoding factor exploits the plasticity of the ribosomal decoding center to differentially remodel ribosomal proteins and rrna. this leads to varying degrees of large-scale ribosome movements and implies distinct mechanisms for communicating information from the decoding center to each gtpase. additional structural snapshots of the translation termination pathway reveal the conformational changes that choreograph the accommodation of decoding factors into the peptidyl transferase center. our results provide a structural framework for how different states of the mammalian ribosome are selectively recognized by the appropriate decoding factor⋅gtpase complex to ensure translational fidelity.
2212,transglutaminase 2 undergoes a large conformational change upon activation ,human transglutaminase 2 (tg2)  a member of a large family of enzymes that catalyze protein crosslinking  plays an important role in the extracellular matrix biology of many tissues and is implicated in the gluten-induced pathogenesis of celiac sprue. although vertebrate transglutaminases have been studied extensively  thus far all structurally characterized members of this family have been crystallized in conformations with inaccessible active sites. we have trapped human tg2 in complex with an inhibitor that mimics inflammatory gluten peptide substrates and have solved  at 2-a resolution  its x-ray crystal structure. the inhibitor stabilizes tg2 in an extended conformation that is dramatically different from earlier transglutaminase structures. the active site is exposed  revealing that catalysis takes place in a tunnel  bridged by two tryptophan residues that separate acyl-donor from acyl-acceptor and stabilize the tetrahedral reaction intermediates. site-directed mutagenesis was used to investigate the acyl-acceptor side of the tunnel  yielding mutants with a marked increase in preference for hydrolysis over transamidation. by providing the ability to visualize this activated conformer  our results create a foundation for understanding the catalytic as well as the non-catalytic roles of tg2 in biology  and for dissecting the process by which the autoantibody response to tg2 is induced in celiac sprue patients.
2214,the apaf-1 apoptosome induces formation of caspase-9 homo- and heterodimers with distinct activities,according to dogma  initiator caspases are activated through proximity-induced homodimerization  but some studies infer that during apoptosis caspase-9 may instead form a holoenzyme with the apaf-1 apoptosome. using several biochemical approaches  including a novel site-specific crosslinking technique  we provide the first direct evidence that procaspase-9 homodimerizes within the apoptosome  markedly increasing its avidity for the complex and inducing selective intramolecular cleavage at asp-315. remarkably  however  procaspase-9 could also bind via its small subunit to the nod domain in apaf-1  resulting in the formation of a heterodimer that more efficiently activated procaspase-3. following cleavage  the intersubunit linker (and associated conformational changes) in caspase-9-p35/p12 inhibited its ability to form homo- and heterodimers  but feedback cleavage by caspase-3 at asp-330 removed the linker entirely and partially restored activity to caspase-9-p35/p10. thus  the apoptosome mediates the formation of caspase-9 homo- and heterodimers  both of which are impacted by cleavage and contribute to its overall function.
2216,biophysical constraints arising from compositional context in synthetic gene networks.,synthetic gene expression is highly sensitive to intragenic compositional context (promoter structure  spacing regions between promoter and coding sequences  and ribosome binding sites). however  much less is known about the effects of intergenic compositional context (spatial arrangement and orientation of entire genes on dna) on expression levels in synthetic gene networks. we compare expression of induced genes arranged in convergent  divergent  or tandem orientations. induction of convergent genes yielded up to 400% higher expression  greater ultrasensitivity  and dynamic range than divergent- or tandem-oriented genes. orientation affects gene expression whether one or both genes are induced. we postulate that transcriptional interference in divergent and tandem genes  mediated by supercoiling  can explain differences in expression and validate this hypothesis through modeling and in vitro supercoiling relaxation experiments. treatment with gyrase abrogated intergenic context effects  bringing expression levels within 30% of each other. we rebuilt the toggle switch with convergent genes  taking advantage of supercoiling effects to improve threshold detection and switch stability.
2218,the p21 cdk-interacting protein cip1 is a potent inhibitor of g1 cyclin-dependent kinases.,the cyclin-dependent kinase cdk2 associates with cyclins a  d  and e and has been implicated in the control of the g1 to s phase transition in mammals. to identify potential cdk2 regulators  we have employed an improved two-hybrid system to isolate human genes encoding cdk-interacting proteins (cips). cip1 encodes a novel 21 kd protein that is found in cyclin a  cyclin d1  cyclin e  and cdk2 immunoprecipitates. p21cip1 is a potent  tight-binding inhibitor of cdks and can inhibit the phosphorylation of rb by cyclin a-cdk2  cyclin e-cdk2  cyclin d1-cdk4  and cyclin d2-cdk4 complexes. cotransfection experiments indicate that cip1 and sv40 t antigen function in a mutually antagonistic manner to control cell cycle progression.
2220,diabetes treatments and risk of amputation  blindness  severe kidney failure  hyperglycaemia  and hypoglycaemia: open cohort study in primary care,objective to assess the risks of amputation  blindness  severe kidney failure  hyperglycaemia  and hypoglycaemia in patients with type 2 diabetes associated with prescribed diabetes drugs  particularly newer agents including gliptins or glitazones (thiazolidinediones). design open cohort study in primary care. setting 1243 practices contributing data to the qresearch database in england. participants 469 688 patients with type 2 diabetes aged 25-84 years between 1 april 2007 and 31 january 2015. exposures hypoglycaemic agents (glitazones  gliptins  metformin  sulphonylureas  insulin  and other) alone and in combination. main outcome measures first recorded diagnoses of amputation  blindness  severe kidney failure  hyperglycaemia  and hypoglycaemia recorded on patients' primary care  mortality  or hospital records. cox models estimated hazard ratios for diabetes treatments adjusting for potential confounders. results 21 308 (4.5%) and 32 533 (6.9%) patients received prescriptions for glitazones and gliptins during follow-up  respectively. compared with non-use  glitazones were associated with a decreased risk of blindness (adjusted hazard ratio 0.71  95% confidence interval 0.57 to 0.89; rate 14.4 per 10 000 person years of exposure) and an increased risk of hypoglycaemia (1.22  1.10 to 1.37; 65.1); gliptins were associated with a decreased risk of hypoglycaemia (0.86  0.77 to 0.96; 45.8). although the numbers of patients prescribed gliptin monotherapy or glitazones monotherapy were relatively low  there were significantly increased risks of severe kidney failure compared with metformin monotherapy (adjusted hazard ratio 2.55  95% confidence interval 1.13 to 5.74). we found significantly lower risks of hyperglycaemia among patients prescribed dual therapy involving metformin with either gliptins (0.78  0.62 to 0.97) or glitazones (0.60  0.45 to 0.80) compared with metformin monotherapy. patients prescribed triple therapy with metformin  sulphonylureas  and either gliptins (adjusted hazard ratio 5.07  95% confidence interval 4.28 to 6.00) or glitazones (6.32  5.35 to 7.45) had significantly higher risks of hypoglycaemia than those prescribed metformin monotherapy  but these risks were similar to those involving dual therapy with metformin and sulphonylureas (6.03  5.47 to 6.63). patients prescribed triple therapy with metformin  sulphonylureas  and glitazones had a significantly reduced risk of blindness compared with metformin monotherapy (0.67  0.48 to 0.94). conclusions we have found lower risks of hyperglycaemia among patients prescribed dual therapy involving metformin with either gliptins or glitazones compared with metformin alone. compared with metformin monotherapy  triple therapy with metformin  sulphonylureas  and either gliptins or glitazones was associated with an increased risk of hypoglycaemia  which was similar to the risk for dual therapy with metformin and sulphonylureas. compared with metformin monotherapy  triple therapy with metformin  sulphonylureas  and glitazones was associated with a reduced risk of blindness. these results  while subject to residual confounding  could have implications for the prescribing of hypoglycaemic drugs.
2222,ondansetron reduces nausea and vomiting after paediatric adenotonsillectomy.,the efficacy  safety and resource implications of a single intravenous dose of ondansetron (0.1 mg.kg-1  maximum 4 mg) were assessed in a multinational  multicentre  randomized  double-blind  placebo-controlled trial of 427 children aged 1-12 years  undergoing tonsillectomy with/without adenoidectomy. emesis (retching and/or vomiting) and nausea were analysed separately. significantly more ondansetron-treated children had no episodes of emesis (127/212 (60%) vs 100/215 (47%); p = 0.004) and experienced no postoperative nausea (135/211 (64%) vs 108/213 (51%); p = 0.004) in the first 24 h. ondansetron also reduced the number of emetic episodes (p < 0.001)  the time to the first emetic episode (p < 0.001) and overall nausea severity (p = 0.003). significantly fewer ondansetron-treated children were rescued or withdrawn from the study (5% vs 10%; p = 0.042). fewer ondansetron-treated patients required nursing intervention (34% vs 45%; p = 0.007) and the average intervention time was significantly shorter (4.6 vs 8.1 minutes; p = 0.001). resources used to manage ponv were significantly reduced by ondansetron (43% vs 57%; p = 0.014).
2224,cytokine control of memory t-cell development and survival,evidence has accumulated that cytokines have a fundamental role in the differentiation of memory t cells. here  we follow the cd8+ t cell from initial activation to memory-cell generation  indicating the checkpoints at which cytokines determine the fate of the t cell. members of the common cytokine-receptor γ-chain (γc)-cytokine family — in particular  interleukin-7 (il-7) and il-15 — act at each stage of the immune response to promote proliferation and survival. in this manner  a stable and protective  long-lived memory cd8+ t-cell pool can be propagated and maintained.
2226,human irgm regulates autophagy and its cell-autonomous immunity functions through mitochondria,irgm  a human immunity-related gtpase  confers autophagic defence against intracellular pathogens by an unknown mechanism. here  we report an unexpected mode of irgm action. irgm demonstrated differential affinity for the mitochondrial lipid cardiolipin  translocated to mitochondria  affected mitochondrial fission and induced autophagy. mitochondrial fission was necessary for autophagic control of intracellular mycobacteria by irgm. irgm influenced mitochondrial membrane polarization and cell death. overexpression of irgmd  but not irgmb splice isoforms  caused mitochondrial depolarization and autophagy-independent  but bax/bak-dependent  cell death. by acting on mitochondria  irgm confers autophagic protection or cell death  explaining irgm action both in defence against tuberculosis and in the damaging inflammation caused by crohn's disease.
2228,gut microbial diversity is associated with lower arterial stiffness in women,aims the gut microbiome influences metabolic syndrome (mets) and inflammation and is therapeutically modifiable. arterial stiffness is poorly correlated with most traditional risk factors. our aim was to examine whether gut microbial composition is associated with arterial stiffness. methods and results we assessed the correlation between carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity (pwv)  a measure of arterial stiffness  and gut microbiome composition in 617 middle-aged women from the twinsuk cohort with concurrent serum metabolomics data. pulse wave velocity was negatively correlated with gut microbiome alpha diversity (shannon index  beta(se)= -0.25(0.07)  p = 1 × 10-4) after adjustment for covariates. we identified seven operational taxonomic units associated with pwv after adjusting for covariates and multiple testing-two belonging to the ruminococcaceae family. associations between microbe abundances  microbe diversity  and pwv remained significant after adjustment for levels of gut-derived metabolites (indolepropionate  trimethylamine oxide  and phenylacetylglutamine). we linearly combined the pwv-associated gut microbiome-derived variables and found that microbiome factors explained 8.3% (95% confidence interval 4.3-12.4%) of the variance in pwv. a formal mediation analysis revealed that only a small proportion (5.51%) of the total effect of the gut microbiome on pwv was mediated by insulin resistance and visceral fat  c-reactive protein  and cardiovascular risk factors after adjusting for age  body mass index  and mean arterial pressure. conclusions gut microbiome diversity is inversely associated with arterial stiffness in women. the effect of gut microbiome composition on pwv is only minimally mediated by mets. this first human observation linking the gut microbiome to arterial stiffness suggests that targeting the microbiome may be a way to treat arterial ageing.
2230,coronary heart disease in south asians overseas: a review.,coronary heart disease rates have been reported in several parts of the world to be unusually high in people originating from the indian subcontinent. high coronary disease rates appear to be common to south asian groups of different geographical origin  religion  and language. this presents a challenge to the understanding of coronary heart disease: the high rates in south asians are not explained on the basis of elevated serum cholesterol  smoking or hypertension. low plasma hdl cholesterol  high plasma triglyceride levels and high prevalence of non-insulin-dependent diabetes have been consistently found in south asians overseas: this probably reflects an underlying state of insulin resistance. further studies are needed to determine whether this metabolic disturbance can account for the high rates of coronary heart disease in south asians  and to identify possibilities for prevention.
2232,prevalent abnormal prion protein in human appendixes after bovine spongiform encephalopathy epizootic: large scale survey,objectives to carry out a further survey of archived appendix samples to understand better the differences between existing estimates of the prevalence of subclinical infection with prions after the bovine spongiform encephalopathy epizootic and to see whether a broader birth cohort was affected  and to understand better the implications for the management of blood and blood products and for the handling of surgical instruments. design irreversibly unlinked and anonymised large scale survey of archived appendix samples. setting archived appendix samples from the pathology departments of 41 uk hospitals participating in the earlier survey  and additional hospitals in regions with lower levels of participation in that survey. sample 32 441 archived appendix samples fixed in formalin and embedded in paraffin and tested for the presence of abnormal prion protein (prp). results of the 32 441 appendix samples 16 were positive for abnormal prp  indicating an overall prevalence of 493 per million population (95% confidence interval 282 to 801 per million). the prevalence in those born in 1941-60 (733 per million  269 to 1596 per million) did not differ significantly from those born between 1961 and 1985 (412 per million  198 to 758 per million) and was similar in both sexes and across the three broad geographical areas sampled. genetic testing of the positive specimens for the genotype at prnp codon 129 revealed a high proportion that were valine homozygous compared with the frequency in the normal population  and in stark contrast with confirmed clinical cases of vcjd  all of which were methionine homozygous at prnp codon 129. conclusions this study corroborates previous studies and suggests a high prevalence of infection with abnormal prp  indicating vcjd carrier status in the population compared with the 177 vcjd cases to date. these findings have important implications for the management of blood and blood products and for the handling of surgical instruments.
2234,dynamic gene regulatory networks of human myeloid differentiation.,the reconstruction of gene regulatory networks underlying cell differentiation from high-throughput gene expression and chromatin data remains a challenge. here  we derive dynamic gene regulatory networks for human myeloid differentiation using a 5-day time series of rna-seq and atac-seq data. we profile hl-60 promyelocytes differentiating into macrophages  neutrophils  monocytes  and monocyte-derived macrophages. we find a rapid response in the expression of key transcription factors and lineage markers that only regulate a subset of their targets at a given time  which is followed by chromatin accessibility changes that occur later along with further gene expression changes. we observe differences between promyelocyte- and monocyte-derived macrophages at both the transcriptional and chromatin landscape level  despite using the same differentiation stimulus  which suggest that the path taken by cells in the differentiation landscape defines their end cell state. more generally  our approach of combining neighboring time points and replicates to achieve greater sequencing depth can efficiently infer footprint-based regulatory networks from long series data.
2236,lincrna-p21 suppresses target mrna translation.,mammalian long intergenic noncoding rnas (lincrnas) are best known for modulating transcription. here we report a posttranscriptional function for lincrna-p21 as a modulator of translation. association of the rna-binding protein hur with lincrna-p21 favored the recruitment of let-7/ago2 to lincrna-p21  leading to lower lincrna-p21 stability. under reduced hur levels  lincrna-p21 accumulated in human cervical carcinoma hela cells  increasing its association with junb and ctnnb1 mrnas and selectively lowering their translation. with elevated hur  lincrna-p21 levels declined  which in turn derepressed junb and β-catenin translation and increased the levels of these proteins. we propose that hur controls translation of a subset of target mrnas by influencing lincrna-p21 levels. our findings uncover a role for lincrna as a posttranscriptional inhibitor of translation.
2238,timing of menarche and first full-term birth in relation to breast cancer risk.,ages at menarche and first birth are established risk factors for breast cancer. the interval between these ages may also affect risk  since the breast is more susceptible to carcinogenic insults during this period than during the parous period. however  few investigators have studied this relation. using logistic regression  the authors evaluated associations between the timing of reproductive events and breast cancer risk among 4 013 cases and 4 069 controls enrolled in a multicenter  population-based us case-control study of white and african-american women (1994-1998). for white  parous premenopausal and postmenopausal women  those who had an interval of > or =16 years between the ages of menarche and first birth had 1.5-fold (95% confidence interval (ci): 1.0  2.2) and 1.4-fold (95% ci: 1.1  1.8) increased risks of breast cancer  respectively  in comparison with those who had < or =5 years between these ages. adjusting for age at first birth altered these risk estimates somewhat  to odds ratios of 1.5 (95% ci: 0.8  2.9) and 1.0 (95% ci: 0.6  1.5)  respectively. these associations were stronger for lobular and hormone-receptor-positive tumors but were absent among premenopausal african-american women. the authors conclude that the interval between age at menarche and age at first birth is associated with the risk of hormonally sensitive types of breast cancer  particularly among white women.
2240,global  regional  and national comparative risk assessment of 79 behavioural  environmental and occupational  and metabolic risks or clusters of risks  1990–2015: a systematic analysis for the global burden of disease study 2015,background the global burden of diseases  injuries  and risk factors study 2015 provides an up-to-date synthesis of the evidence for risk factor exposure and the attributable burden of disease. by providing national and subnational assessments spanning the past 25 years  this study can inform debates on the importance of addressing risks in context. methods we used the comparative risk assessment framework developed for previous iterations of the global burden of disease study to estimate attributable deaths  disability-adjusted life-years (dalys)  and trends in exposure by age group  sex  year  and geography for 79 behavioural  environmental and occupational  and metabolic risks or clusters of risks from 1990 to 2015. this study included 388 risk-outcome pairs that met world cancer research fund-defined criteria for convincing or probable evidence. we extracted relative risk and exposure estimates from randomised controlled trials  cohorts  pooled cohorts  household surveys  census data  satellite data  and other sources. we used statistical models to pool data  adjust for bias  and incorporate covariates. we developed a metric that allows comparisons of exposure across risk factors-the summary exposure value. using the counterfactual scenario of theoretical minimum risk level  we estimated the portion of deaths and dalys that could be attributed to a given risk. we decomposed trends in attributable burden into contributions from population growth  population age structure  risk exposure  and risk-deleted cause-specific daly rates. we characterised risk exposure in relation to a socio-demographic index (sdi). findings between 1990 and 2015  global exposure to unsafe sanitation  household air pollution  childhood underweight  childhood stunting  and smoking each decreased by more than 25%. global exposure for several occupational risks  high body-mass index (bmi)  and drug use increased by more than 25% over the same period. all risks jointly evaluated in 2015 accounted for 57·8% (95% ci 56·6-58·8) of global deaths and 41·2% (39·8-42·8) of dalys. in 2015  the ten largest contributors to global dalys among level 3 risks were high systolic blood pressure (211·8 million [192·7 million to 231·1 million] global dalys)  smoking (148·6 million [134·2 million to 163·1 million])  high fasting plasma glucose (143·1 million [125·1 million to 163·5 million])  high bmi (120·1 million [83·8 million to 158·4 million])  childhood undernutrition (113·3 million [103·9 million to 123·4 million])  ambient particulate matter (103·1 million [90·8 million to 115·1 million])  high total cholesterol (88·7 million [74·6 million to 105·7 million])  household air pollution (85·6 million [66·7 million to 106·1 million])  alcohol use (85·0 million [77·2 million to 93·0 million])  and diets high in sodium (83·0 million [49·3 million to 127·5 million]). from 1990 to 2015  attributable dalys declined for micronutrient deficiencies  childhood undernutrition  unsafe sanitation and water  and household air pollution; reductions in risk-deleted daly rates rather than reductions in exposure drove these declines. rising exposure contributed to notable increases in attributable dalys from high bmi  high fasting plasma glucose  occupational carcinogens  and drug use. environmental risks and childhood undernutrition declined steadily with sdi; low physical activity  high bmi  and high fasting plasma glucose increased with sdi. in 119 countries  metabolic risks  such as high bmi and fasting plasma glucose  contributed the most attributable dalys in 2015. regionally  smoking still ranked among the leading five risk factors for attributable dalys in 109 countries; childhood underweight and unsafe sex remained primary drivers of early death and disability in much of sub-saharan africa. interpretation declines in some key environmental risks have contributed to declines in critical infectious diseases. some risks appear to be invariant to sdi. increasing risks  including high bmi  high fasting plasma glucose  drug use  and some occupational exposures  contribute to rising burden from some conditions  but also provide opportunities for intervention. some highly preventable risks  such as smoking  remain major causes of attributable dalys  even as exposure is declining. public policy makers need to pay attention to the risks that are increasingly major contributors to global burden. funding bill & melinda gates foundation.
2242,metabolomics study of the therapeutic mechanism of schisandra chinensis lignans in diet-induced hyperlipidemia mice,background schisandra  a globally distributed plant  has been widely applied for the treatment of diseases such as hyperlipidemia  fatty liver and obesity in china. in the present work  a rapid resolution liquid chromatography coupled with quadruple-time-of-flight mass spectrometry (rrlc-q-tof-ms)-based metabolomics was conducted to investigate the intervention effect of schisandra chinensis lignans (scl) on hyperlipidemia mice induced by high-fat diet (hfd). methods hyperlipidemia mice were orally administered with scl (100 mg/kg) once a day for 4 weeks. serum biochemistry assay of triglyceride (tg)  total cholesterol (tc)  low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (ldl-c) and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (hdl-c) was conducted to confirm the treatment of scl on lipid regulation. metabolomics analysis on serum samples was carried out  and principal component analysis (pca) and partial least squares-discriminant analysis (pls-da) were carried out for the pattern recognition and characteristic metabolites identification. the relative levels of critical regulatory factors of liver lipid metabolism  sterol regulatory element-binding proteins (srebps) and its related gene expressions were measured by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (rt-pcr) for investigating the underlying mechanism. results oral administration of scl significantly decreased the serum levels of tc  tg and ldl-c and increased the serum level of hdl-c in the hyperlipidemia mice  and no effect of scl on blood lipid levels was observed in control mice. serum samples were scattered in the pca scores plots in response to the control  hfd and scl group. totally  thirteen biomarkers were identified and nine of them were recovered to the normal levels after scl treatment. based on the kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes (kegg) pathways analysis  the anti-hyperlipidemia mechanisms of scl may be involved in the following metabolic pathways: tricarboxylic acid (tca) cycle  synthesis of ketone body and cholesterol  choline metabolism and fatty acid metabolism. meanwhile  scl significantly inhibited the mrna expression level of hepatic lipogenesis genes such as srebp-1c  fatty acid synthase (fas) and acetyl-coa carboxylase (acc)  and decreased the mrna expression of liver x receptor α (lxrα). moreover  scl also significantly decreased the expression level of srebp-2 and 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme a reductase (hmgcr) in the liver of hyperlipidemia mice. conclusion anti-hyperlipidemia effect of scl was confirmed by both serum biochemistry and metabolomics analysis. the mechanism may be related to the down-regulation of lxrα/srebp-1c/fas/acc and srebp2/hmgcr signaling pathways.
2244,polycomb associates genome-wide with a specific rna polymerase ii variant  and regulates metabolic genes in escs,polycomb repressor complexes (prcs) are important chromatin modifiers fundamentally implicated in pluripotency and cancer. polycomb silencing in embryonic stem cells (escs) can be accompanied by active chromatin and primed rna polymerase ii (rnapii)  but the relationship between prcs and rnapii remains unclear genome-wide. we mapped prc repression markers and four rnapii states in escs using chip-seq  and found that prc targets exhibit a range of rnapii variants. first  developmental prc targets are bound by unproductive rnapii (s5p(+)s7p(-)s2p(-)) genome-wide. sequential chip  ring1b depletion  and genome-wide correlations show that prcs and rnapii-s5p physically bind to the same chromatin and functionally synergize. second  we identify a cohort of genes marked by prc and elongating rnapii (s5p(+)s7p(+)s2p(+)); they produce mrna and protein  and their expression increases upon prc1 knockdown. we show that this group of prc targets switches between active and prc-repressed states within the esc population  and that many have roles in metabolism.
2246,identification of vitronectin as an extrinsic inducer of cancer stem cell differentiation and tumor formation.,there is mounting evidence that tumors are initiated by a rare subset of cells called cancer stem cells (cscs). cscs are generally quiescent  self-renew  form tumors at low numbers  and give rise to the heterogeneous cell types found within a tumor. cscs isolated from multiple tumor types differentiate both in vivo and in vitro when cultured in serum  yet the factors responsible for their differentiation have not yet been identified. here we show that vitronectin is the component of human serum driving stem cell differentiation through an integrin alpha v beta 3-dependent mechanism. cscs cultured on vitronectin result in downregulation of stem cell genes  modulation of differentiation markers  and loss of beta-catenin nuclear localization. blocking integrin alpha v beta 3 inhibits differentiation and subsequently tumor formation. thus  cscs must be engaged by one or more extracellular signals to differentiate and initiate tumor formation  defining a new axis for future novel therapies aimed at both the extrinsic and intracellular pathways.
2248,trends in the use of complementary health approaches among adults: united states  2002-2012.,objective this report presents national estimates of the use of complementary health approaches among adults in the united states across three time points. trends in the use of selected complementary health approaches are compared for 2002  2007  and 2012  and differences by selected demographic characteristics are also examined. methods combined data from 88 962 adults aged 18 and over collected as part of the 2002  2007  and 2012 national health interview survey were analyzed for this report. sample data were weighted to produce national estimates that are representative of the civilian noninstitutionalized u.s. adult population. differences between percentages were evaluated using two-sided significance tests at the 0.05 level. results although the use of individual approaches varied across the three time points  nonvitamin  nonmineral dietary supplements remained the most popular complementary health approach used. the use of yoga  tai chi  and qi gong increased linearly across the three time points; among these three approaches  yoga accounted for approximately 80% of the prevalence. the use of any complementary health approach also differed by selected sociodemographic characteristics. the most notable observed differences in use were by age and hispanic or latino origin and race.
2250,cerebral palsy among term and postterm births.,context although preterm delivery is a well-established risk factor for cerebral palsy (cp)  preterm deliveries contribute only a minority of affected infants. there is little information on the relation of cp risk to gestational age in the term range  where most cp occurs. objective to determine whether timing of birth in the term and postterm period is associated with risk of cp. design  setting  and participants population-based follow-up study using the medical birth registry of norway to identify 1 682 441 singleton children born in the years 1967-2001 with a gestational age of 37 through 44 weeks and no congenital anomalies. the cohort was followed up through 2005 by linkage to other national registries. main outcome measures absolute and relative risk of cp for children surviving to at least 4 years of age. results of the cohort of term and postterm children  1938 were registered with cp in the national insurance scheme. infants born at 40 weeks had the lowest risk of cp  with a prevalence of 0.99/1000 (95% confidence interval [ci]  0.90-1.08). risk for cp was higher with earlier or later delivery  with a prevalence at 37 weeks of 1.91/1000 (95% ci  1.58-2.25) and a relative risk (rr) of 1.9 (95% ci  1.6-2.4)  a prevalence at 38 weeks of 1.25/1000 (95% ci  1.07-1.42) and an rr of 1.3 (95% ci  1.1-1.6)  a prevalence at 42 weeks of 1.36/1000 (95% ci  1.19-1.53) and an rr of 1.4 (95% ci  1.2-1.6)  and a prevalence after 42 weeks of 1.44 (95% ci  1.15-1.72) and an rr of 1.4 (95% ci  1.1-1.8). these associations were even stronger in a subset with gestational age based on ultrasound measurements: at 37 weeks the prevalence was 1.17/1000 (95% ci  0.30-2.04) and the relative risk was 3.7 (95% ci  1.5-9.1). at 42 weeks the prevalence was 0.85/1000 (95% ci  0.33-1.38) and the relative risk was 2.4 (95% ci  1.1-5.3). adjustment for infant sex  maternal age  and various socioeconomic measures had little effect. conclusion compared with delivery at 40 weeks' gestation  delivery at 37 or 38 weeks or at 42 weeks or later was associated with an increased risk of cp.
2252,the genetics of mexico recapitulates native american substructure and affects biomedical traits,mexico harbors great cultural and ethnic diversity  yet fine-scale patterns of human genome-wide variation from this region remain largely uncharacterized. we studied genomic variation within mexico from over 1000 individuals representing 20 indigenous and 11 mestizo populations. we found striking genetic stratification among indigenous populations within mexico at varying degrees of geographic isolation. some groups were as differentiated as europeans are from east asians. pre-columbian genetic substructure is recapitulated in the indigenous ancestry of admixed mestizo individuals across the country. furthermore  two independently phenotyped cohorts of mexicans and mexican americans showed a significant association between subcontinental ancestry and lung function. thus  accounting for fine-scale ancestry patterns is critical for medical and population genetic studies within mexico  in mexican-descent populations  and likely in many other populations worldwide.
2254,differentiation of effector cd4 t cell populations (*).,cd4 t cells play critical roles in mediating adaptive immunity to a variety of pathogens. they are also involved in autoimmunity  asthma  and allergic responses as well as in tumor immunity. during tcr activation in a particular cytokine milieu  naive cd4 t cells may differentiate into one of several lineages of t helper (th) cells  including th1  th2  th17  and itreg  as defined by their pattern of cytokine production and function. in this review  we summarize the discovery  functions  and relationships among th cells; the cytokine and signaling requirements for their development; the networks of transcription factors involved in their differentiation; the epigenetic regulation of their key cytokines and transcription factors; and human diseases involving defective cd4 t cell differentiation.
2256,induced pluripotent stem cells in alzheimer’s disease: applications for disease modeling and cell-replacement therapy,alzheimer's disease (ad) is the most common cause of dementia in those over the age of 65. while a numerous of disease-causing genes and risk factors have been identified  the exact etiological mechanisms of ad are not yet completely understood  due to the inability to test theoretical hypotheses on non-postmortem and patient-specific research systems. the use of recently developed and optimized induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs) technology may provide a promising platform to create reliable models  not only for better understanding the etiopathological process of ad  but also for efficient anti-ad drugs screening. more importantly  human-sourced ipscs may also provide a beneficial tool for cell-replacement therapy against ad. although considerable progress has been achieved  a number of key challenges still require to be addressed in ipscs research  including the identification of robust disease phenotypes in ad modeling and the clinical availabilities of ipscs-based cell-replacement therapy in human. in this review  we highlight recent progresses of ipscs research and discuss the translational challenges of ad patients-derived ipscs in disease modeling and cell-replacement therapy.
2258,mammographic density and the risk and detection of breast cancer.,background extensive mammographic density is associated with an increased risk of breast cancer and makes the detection of cancer by mammography difficult  but the influence of density on risk according to method of cancer detection is unknown. methods we carried out three nested case-control studies in screened populations with 1112 matched case-control pairs. we examined the association of the measured percentage of density in the baseline mammogram with risk of breast cancer  according to method of cancer detection  time since the initiation of screening  and age. results as compared with women with density in less than 10% of the mammogram  women with density in 75% or more had an increased risk of breast cancer (odds ratio  4.7; 95% confidence interval [ci]  3.0 to 7.4)  whether detected by screening (odds ratio  3.5; 95% ci  2.0 to 6.2) or less than 12 months after a negative screening examination (odds ratio  17.8; 95% ci  4.8 to 65.9). increased risk of breast cancer  whether detected by screening or other means  persisted for at least 8 years after study entry and was greater in younger than in older women. for women younger than the median age of 56 years  26% of all breast cancers and 50% of cancers detected less than 12 months after a negative screening test were attributable to density in 50% or more of the mammogram. conclusions extensive mammographic density is strongly associated with the risk of breast cancer detected by screening or between screening tests. a substantial fraction of breast cancers can be attributed to this risk factor.
2260,cost effectiveness of ward based non-invasive ventilation for acute exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: economic analysis of randomised controlled trial.,objective to evaluate the cost effectiveness of standard treatment with and without the addition of ward based non-invasive ventilation in patients admitted to hospital with an acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. design incremental cost effectiveness analysis of a randomised controlled trial. setting medical wards in 14 hospitals in the united kingdom. participants the trial comprised 236 patients admitted to hospital with an acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and mild to moderate acidosis (ph 7.25-7.35) secondary to respiratory failure. the economic analysis compared the costs of treatment that these patients received after randomisation. main outcome measure incremental cost per in-hospital death. results 24/118 died in the group receiving standard treatment and 12/118 in the group receiving non-invasive ventilation (p=0.05). allocation to the group receiving non-invasive ventilation was associated with a reduction in costs of 49362 pounds sterling (78741 dollars; 73109 euros)  mainly through reduced use of intensive care units. the incremental cost effectiveness ratio was -645 pounds sterling per death avoided (95% confidence interval -2310 pounds sterling to 386 pounds sterling)  indicating a dominant (more effective and less costly) strategy. modelling of these data indicates that a typical uk hospital providing a non-invasive ventilation service will avoid six deaths and three to nine admissions to intensive care units per year  with an associated cost reduction of 12000-53000 pounds sterling per year. conclusions non-invasive ventilation is a highly cost effective treatment that both reduced total costs and improved mortality in hospital.
2262,post-transcriptional wnt signaling governs epididymal sperm maturation,the canonical wnt signaling pathway is of paramount importance in development and disease. an emergent question is whether the upstream cascade of the canonical wnt pathway has physiologically relevant roles beyond β-catenin-mediated transcription  which is difficult to study due to the pervasive role of this protein. here  we show that transcriptionally silent spermatozoa respond to wnt signals released from the epididymis and that mice mutant for the wnt regulator cyclin y-like 1 are male sterile due to immotile and malformed spermatozoa. post-transcriptional wnt signaling impacts spermatozoa through gsk3 by (1) reducing global protein poly-ubiquitination to maintain protein homeostasis; (2) inhibiting septin 4 phosphorylation to establish a membrane diffusion barrier in the sperm tail; and (3) inhibiting protein phosphatase 1 to initiate sperm motility. the results indicate that wnt signaling orchestrates a rich post-transcriptional sperm maturation program and invite revisiting transcription-independent wnt signaling in somatic cells as well.
2264,recommended diagnostic criteria for multiple sclerosis: guidelines from the international panel on the diagnosis of multiple sclerosis.,the international panel on ms diagnosis presents revised diagnostic criteria for multiple sclerosis (ms). the focus remains on the objective demonstration of dissemination of lesions in both time and space. magnetic resonance imaging is integrated with dinical and other paraclinical diagnostic methods. the revised criteria facilitate the diagnosis of ms in patients with a variety of presentations  including "monosymptomatic" disease suggestive of ms  disease with a typical relapsing-remitting course  and disease with insidious progression  without clear attacks and remissions. previously used terms such as "clinically definite" and "probable ms" are no longer recommended. the outcome of a diagnostic evaluation is either ms  "possible ms" (for those at risk for ms  but for whom diagnostic evaluation is equivocal)  or "not ms. "
2266,the sterol regulatory element binding proteins are essential for the metabolic programming of effector t cells and adaptive immunity,newly activated cd8(+) t cells reprogram their metabolism to meet the extraordinary biosynthetic demands of clonal expansion; however  the signals that mediate metabolic reprogramming remain poorly defined. here we demonstrate an essential role for sterol regulatory element-binding proteins (srebps) in the acquisition of effector-cell metabolism. without srebp signaling  cd8(+) t cells were unable to blast  which resulted in attenuated clonal expansion during viral infection. mechanistic studies indicated that srebps were essential for meeting the heightened lipid requirements of membrane synthesis during blastogenesis. srebps were dispensable for homeostatic proliferation  which indicated a context-specific requirement for srebps in effector responses. our studies provide insights into the molecular signals that underlie the metabolic reprogramming of cd8(+) t cells during the transition from quiescence to activation.
2268,do antidepressants cure or create abnormal brain states?,the term antidepressant refers to a drug that helps to rectify specific biological abnormalities that give rise to the symptoms of depression. this exemplifies what we have called the “disease-centred” model of psychotropic drug action [ 1]. modelled on paradigmatic situations in general medicine—such as the use of insulin in diabetes  antibiotics in infectious disease  chemotherapy in cancer—the disease-centred model suggests that antidepressants help restore normal functioning by acting on the neuropathology of depression or of depressive symptoms. in contrast  we propose in this essay that an alternative “drug-centred” model can better explain observed drug effects in psychiatric conditions. this drug-centred model suggests that instead of relieving a hypothetical biochemical abnormality  drugs themselves cause abnormal states  which may coincidentally relieve psychiatric symptoms ( table 1). alcohol's disinhibiting effects may relieve symptoms of social phobia  but that does not imply that alcohol corrects a chemical imbalance underlying social phobia. sedation may lessen high arousal  present in many acute psychiatric situations. drugs that induce indifference  such as neuroleptics or opiates  may help reduce the distress of acute psychotic symptoms. low-dose stimulants may help improve attention and concentration in the short term. table 1    main assumptions of two models of psychotropic drug action the disease-centred model in psychiatry leads researchers to infer antidepressant effects from patients' scores on symptom rating scales presumed to assess the manifestations of the disease. the drug-centred model  on the other hand  suggests that physiological and subjective effects of drugs should be examined in their own right. these effects include various forms of sedation  stimulation  and a plethora of biopsychological states. depending on individual inclination and context (including a person's emotional state upon drug ingestion)  intoxication with some drugs produces euphoria or mood elevation. because tolerance develops  however  euphoriant effects do not persist with long-term use. if antidepressants or any other psychotropic drugs could be shown to have mood-elevating effects that were long-term and not diminished by being in a depressed emotional state  this would distinguish them from psychotropic drugs that cause euphoria and might prove uniquely useful in depressed patients (see sidebar).
2270,a model of multiple myeloma: culture of 5t33 murine myeloma cells and evaluation of tumorigenicity in the c57bl/kalwrij mouse.,the 5t33 multiple myeloma is one of a series of transplantable murine myelomas arising spontaneously in c57bl/kalwrij mice. this study describes the establishment and characterisation of the 5t33 murine myeloma in vitro as a cultured cell line in terms of its morphology  growth rate  expression of paraprotein (igg2b) and tumorigenicity in syngeneic animals. the 5t33 cell line has been in continuous culture for over 10 months and has achieved more than passage 34. in culture  5t33 myeloma grows as single cells or in small clusters of loosely adherent cells on an adherent stromal cell layer. maximum doubling time is approximately 25 h  and over 90% of the cells express cytoplasmic igg2b paraprotein. the cultured 5t33 myeloma cells are highly tumorigenic in c57bl/kalwrij mice with as few as 500 cells inducing paralysis and death as early as day 36 post-tumour inoculation. kinetics of tumour development and detection of igg2b paraprotein are dose dependent. two weeks following intravenous inoculation of 5 x 10(5) cultured 5t33 myeloma cells  tumour cells were readily identified in the bone marrow. by 3 weeks post-tumour inoculation  5t33 myeloma cells were found in various tissues throughout the animal. studies are now underway to determine the sensitivity of this cell line to various therapeutic modalities.
2272,self-harm in prisons in england and wales: an epidemiological study of prevalence  risk factors  clustering  and subsequent suicide,background self-harm and suicide are common in prisoners  yet robust information on the full extent and characteristics of people at risk of self-harm is scant. furthermore  understanding how frequently self-harm is followed by suicide  and in which prisoners this progression is most likely to happen  is important. we did a case-control study of all prisoners in england and wales to ascertain the prevalence of self-harm in this population  associated risk factors  clustering effects  and risk of subsequent suicide after self-harm. methods records of self-harm incidents in all prisons in england and wales were gathered routinely between january  2004  and december  2009. we did a case-control comparison of prisoners who self-harmed and those who did not between january  2006  and december  2009. we also used a bayesian approach to look at clustering of people who self-harmed. prisoners who self-harmed and subsequently died by suicide in prison were compared with other inmates who self-harmed. findings 139 195 self-harm incidents were recorded in 26 510 individual prisoners between 2004 and 2009; 5-6% of male prisoners and 20-24% of female inmates self-harmed every year. self-harm rates were more than ten times higher in female prisoners than in male inmates. repetition of self-harm was common  particularly in women and teenage girls  in whom a subgroup of 102 prisoners accounted for 17 307 episodes. in both sexes  self-harm was associated with younger age  white ethnic origin  prison type  and a life sentence or being unsentenced; in female inmates  committing a violent offence against an individual was also a factor. substantial evidence was noted of clustering in time and location of prisoners who self-harmed (adjusted intra-class correlation 0·15  95% ci 0·11-0·18). 109 subsequent suicides in prison were reported in individuals who self-harmed; the risk was higher in those who self-harmed than in the general prison population  and more than half the deaths occurred within a month of self-harm. risk factors for suicide after self-harm in male prisoners were older age and a previous self-harm incident of high or moderate lethality; in female inmates  a history of more than five self-harm incidents within a year was associated with subsequent suicide. interpretation the burden of self-harm in prisoners is substantial  particularly in women. self-harm in prison is associated with subsequent suicide in this setting. prevention and treatment of self-harm in prisoners is an essential component of suicide prevention in prisons. funding wellcome trust  national institute for health research  national offender management service  and department of health.
2274,bile acid receptor tgr5 agonism induces no production and reduces monocyte adhesion in vascular endothelial cells.,objective tgr5 is a g-protein-coupled receptor for bile acids. so far  little is known about the function of tgr5 in vascular endothelial cells. approach and results in bovine aortic endothelial cells  treatment with a bile acid having a high affinity to tgr5  taurolithocholic acid (tlca)  significantly increased no production. this effect was abolished by small interfering rna-mediated depletion of tgr5. tlca-induced no production was also observed in human umbilical vein endothelial cells measured via intracellular cgmp accumulation. tlca increased endothelial no synthase(ser1177) phosphorylation in human umbilical vein endothelial cells. this response was accompanied by increased akt(ser473) phosphorylation and intracellular ca(2+). inhibition of these signals significantly decreased tlca-induced no production. we next examined whether tgr5-mediated no production affects inflammatory responses of endothelial cells. in human umbilical vein endothelial cells  tlca significantly reduced tumor necrosis factor-α-induced adhesion of monocytes  vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 expression  and activation of nuclear factor-κb. tlca also inhibited lipopolysaccharide-induced monocyte adhesion to mesenteric venules in vivo. these inhibitory effects of tlca were abrogated by no synthase inhibition. conclusions tgr5 agonism induces no production via akt activation and intracellular ca(2+) increase in vascular endothelial cells  and this function inhibits monocyte adhesion in response to inflammatory stimuli.
2276,human snp links differential outcomes in inflammatory and infectious disease to a foxo3-regulated pathway,the clinical course and eventual outcome  or prognosis  of complex diseases varies enormously between affected individuals. this variability critically determines the impact a disease has on a patient's life but is very poorly understood. here  we exploit existing genome-wide association study data to gain insight into the role of genetics in prognosis. we identify a noncoding polymorphism in foxo3a (rs12212067: t > g) at which the minor (g) allele  despite not being associated with disease susceptibility  is associated with a milder course of crohn's disease and rheumatoid arthritis and with increased risk of severe malaria. minor allele carriage is shown to limit inflammatory responses in monocytes via a foxo3-driven pathway  which through tgfβ1 reduces production of proinflammatory cytokines  including tnfα  and increases production of anti-inflammatory cytokines  including il-10. thus  we uncover a shared genetic contribution to prognosis in distinct diseases that operates via a foxo3-driven pathway modulating inflammatory responses.
2278,dna damage and repair modify dna methylation and chromatin domain of the targeted locus: mechanism of allele methylation polymorphism,we characterize the changes in chromatin structure  dna methylation and transcription during and after homologous dna repair (hr). we find that hr modifies the dna methylation pattern of the repaired segment. hr also alters local histone h3 methylation as well chromatin structure by inducing dna-chromatin loops connecting the 5' and 3' ends of the repaired gene. during a two-week period after repair  transcription-associated demethylation promoted by base excision repair enzymes further modifies methylation of the repaired dna. subsequently  the repaired genes display stable but diverse methylation profiles. these profiles govern the levels of expression in each clone. our data argue that dna methylation and chromatin remodelling induced by hr may be a source of permanent variation of gene expression in somatic cells.
2280,regulation of sympathetic nerve activity during the cold pressor test in normotensive pregnant and nonpregnant women.,baseline neurovascular transduction is reduced in normotensive pregnancy; however  little is known about changes to neurovascular transduction during periods of heightened sympathetic activation. we tested the hypothesis that  despite an exacerbated muscle sympathetic nerve activity (microneurography) response to cold pressor stimulation  the blunting of neurovascular transduction in normotensive pregnant women would result in similar changes in vascular resistance and mean arterial pressure (finometer) relative to nonpregnant controls. baseline neurovascular transduction was reduced in pregnant women relative to controls when expressed as the quotient of both total resistance and mean arterial pressure and sympathetic burst frequency (0.32±0.07 versus 0.58±0.16 mm hg/l/min/bursts/min  p<0.001 and 2.4±0.7 versus 3.6±0.8 mm hg/bursts/min  p=0.001). sympathetic activation was greater across all 3 minutes of cold pressor stimulation in the pregnant women relative to the nonpregnant controls. peak sympathoexcitation was also greater in pregnant than in nonpregnant women  whether expressed as sympathetic burst frequency (+17±13 versus +7±8 bursts/min  p=0.049)  burst incidence (+17±9 versus +6±11 bursts/100 hb  p=0.03)  or total activity (+950±660 versus +363±414 arbitrary units  p=0.04). however  neurovascular transduction during peak cold pressor-induced sympathoexcitation remained blunted in pregnant women (0.25±0.11 versus 0.45±0.08 mm hg/l/min/bursts/min  p<0.001 and 1.9±1.0 versus 3.2±0.9 mm hg/bursts/min  p=0.006). therefore  mean arterial pressure (93±21 versus 99±6 mm hg  p=0.4) and total peripheral resistance (12±3 versus 14±3 mm hg/l/min) were not different between pregnant and nonpregnant women during peak sympathoexcitation. these data indicate that the third trimester of normotensive pregnancy is associated with reductions in neurovascular transduction  which result in the dissociation of sympathetic outflow from hemodynamic outcomes  even during cold pressor-induced sympathoexcitation.
2282,a nexus for gene expression—molecular mechanisms of spt5 and nusg in the three domains of life,evolutionary related multisubunit rna polymerases (rnaps) transcribe the genomes of all living organisms. whereas the core subunits of rnaps are universally conserved in all three domains of life-indicative of a common evolutionary descent-this only applies to one rnap-associated transcription factor-spt5  also known as nusg in bacteria. all other factors that aid rnap during the transcription cycle are specific for the individual domain or only conserved between archaea and eukaryotes. spt5 and its bacterial homologue nusg regulate gene expression in several ways by (i) modulating transcription processivity and promoter proximal pausing  (ii) coupling transcription and rna processing or translation  and (iii) recruiting termination factors and thereby silencing laterally transferred dna and protecting the genome against double-stranded dna breaks. this review discusses recent discoveries that identify spt5-like factors as evolutionary conserved nexus for the regulation and coordination of the machineries responsible for information processing in the cell.
2284,time and money: the true costs of health care utilization for patients receiving "free" hiv/tuberculosis care and treatment in rural kwazulu-natal.,background hiv and tuberculosis (tb) services are provided free of charge in many sub-saharan african countries  but patients still incur costs. methods patient-exit interviews were conducted in primary health care clinics in rural south africa with representative samples of 200 hiv-infected patients enrolled in a pre-antiretroviral treatment (pre-art) program  300 patients receiving antiretroviral treatment (art)  and 300 patients receiving tb treatment. for each group  we calculated health expenditures across different spending categories  time spent traveling to and using services  and how patients financed their spending. associations between patient group and costs were assessed in multivariate regression models. results total monthly health expenditures [1 usd = 7.3 south african rand (zar)] were zar 171 [95% confidence interval (ci): 134 to 207] for pre-art  zar 164 (95% ci: 141 to 187) for art  and zar 122 (95% ci: 105 to 140) for tb patients (p = 0.01). total monthly time costs (in hours) were 3.4 (95% ci: 3.3 to 3.5) for pre-art  5.0 (95% ci: 4.7 to 5.3) for art  and 3.2 (95% ci: 2.9 to 3.4) for tb patients (p < 0.01). although overall patient costs were similar across groups  pre-art patients spent on average zar 29.2 more on traditional healers and zar 25.9 more on chemists and private doctors than art patients  whereas art patients spent zar 34.0 more than pre-art patients on transport to clinics (p < 0.05 for all results). thirty-one percent of pre-art  39% of art  and 41% of tb patients borrowed money or sold assets to finance health care. conclusions patients receiving nominally free care for hiv/tb face large private costs  commonly leading to financial distress. subsidized transport  fewer clinic visits  and drug pick-up points closer to home could reduce costs for art patients  potentially improving retention and adherence. large expenditure on alternative care among pre-art patients suggests that transitioning patients to art earlier  as under hiv treatment-as-prevention policies  may not substantially increase patients' financial burden.
2286,cosmic: mining complete cancer genomes in the catalogue of somatic mutations in cancer,cosmic (http://www.sanger.ac.uk/cosmic) curates comprehensive information on somatic mutations in human cancer. release v48 (july 2010) describes over 136 000 coding mutations in almost 542 000 tumour samples; of the 18 490 genes documented  4803 (26%) have one or more mutations. full scientific literature curations are available on 83 major cancer genes and 49 fusion gene pairs (19 new cancer genes and 30 new fusion pairs this year) and this number is continually increasing. key amongst these is tp53  now available through a collaboration with the iarc p53 database. in addition to data from the cancer genome project (cgp) at the sanger institute  uk  and the cancer genome atlas project (tcga)  large systematic screens are also now curated. major website upgrades now make these data much more mineable  with many new selection filters and graphics. a biomart is now available allowing more automated data mining and integration with other biological databases. annotation of genomic features has become a significant focus; cosmic has begun curating full-genome resequencing experiments  developing new web pages  export formats and graphics styles. with all genomic information recently updated to grch37  cosmic integrates many diverse types of mutation information and is making much closer links with ensembl and other data resources.
2288,an rna-sequencing transcriptome and splicing database of glia  neurons  and vascular cells of the cerebral cortex.,the major cell classes of the brain differ in their developmental processes  metabolism  signaling  and function. to better understand the functions and interactions of the cell types that comprise these classes  we acutely purified representative populations of neurons  astrocytes  oligodendrocyte precursor cells  newly formed oligodendrocytes  myelinating oligodendrocytes  microglia  endothelial cells  and pericytes from mouse cerebral cortex. we generated a transcriptome database for these eight cell types by rna sequencing and used a sensitive algorithm to detect alternative splicing events in each cell type. bioinformatic analyses identified thousands of new cell type-enriched genes and splicing isoforms that will provide novel markers for cell identification  tools for genetic manipulation  and insights into the biology of the brain. for example  our data provide clues as to how neurons and astrocytes differ in their ability to dynamically regulate glycolytic flux and lactate generation attributable to unique splicing of pkm2  the gene encoding the glycolytic enzyme pyruvate kinase. this dataset will provide a powerful new resource for understanding the development and function of the brain. to ensure the widespread distribution of these datasets  we have created a user-friendly website (http://web.stanford.edu/group/barres_lab/brain_rnaseq.html) that provides a platform for analyzing and comparing transciption and alternative splicing profiles for various cell classes in the brain.
2290,targeted nanoparticles containing the proresolving peptide ac2-26 protect against advanced atherosclerosis in hypercholesterolemic mice,chronic  nonresolving inflammation is a critical factor in the clinical progression of advanced atherosclerotic lesions. in the normal inflammatory response  resolution is mediated by several agonists  among which is the glucocorticoid-regulated protein called annexin a1. the proresolving actions of annexin a1  which are mediated through its receptor n-formyl peptide receptor 2 (fpr2/alx)  can be mimicked by an amino-terminal peptide encompassing amino acids 2–26 (ac2-26). collagen iv (col iv)–targeted nanoparticles (nps) containing ac2-26 were evaluated for their therapeutic effect on chronic  advanced atherosclerosis in fat-fed ldlr−/− mice. when administered to mice with preexisting lesions  col iv–ac2-26 nps were targeted to lesions and led to a marked improvement in key advanced plaque properties  including an increase in the protective collagen layer overlying lesions (which was associated with a decrease in lesional collagenase activity)  suppression of oxidative stress  and a decrease in plaque necrosis. in mice lacking fpr2/alx in myeloid cells  these improvements were not seen. thus  administration of a resolution-mediating peptide in a targeted np activates its receptor on myeloid cells to stabilize advanced atherosclerotic lesions. these findings support the concept that defective inflammation resolution plays a role in advanced atherosclerosis  and suggest a new form of therapy.
2292,grsf1 regulates rna processing in mitochondrial rna granules,various specialized domains have been described in the cytosol and the nucleus; however  little is known about compartmentalization within the mitochondrial matrix. grsf1 (g-rich sequence factor 1) is an rna binding protein that was previously reported to localize in the cytosol. we found that an isoform of grsf1 accumulates in discrete foci in the mitochondrial matrix. these foci are composed of nascent mitochondrial rna and also contain rnase p  an enzyme that participates in mitochondrial rna processing. grsf1 was found to interact with rnase p and to be required for processing of both classical and trna-less rna precursors. in its absence  cleavage of primary rna transcripts is abnormal  leading to decreased expression of mitochondrially encoded proteins and mitochondrial dysfunction. our findings suggest that the foci containing grsf1 and rnase p correspond to sites where primary rna transcripts converge to be processed. we have termed these large ribonucleoprotein structures "mitochondrial rna granules. "
2294,"the contribution of chronic diseases to the prevalence of dependence among older people in latin america  china and india: a 10/66 dementia research group population-based survey",background the number of older people is set to increase dramatically worldwide. demographic changes are likely to result in the rise of age-related chronic diseases which largely contribute to years lived with a disability and future dependence. however dependence is much less studied although intrinsically linked to disability. we investigated the prevalence and correlates of dependence among older people from middle income countries. methods a one-phase cross-sectional survey was carried out at 11 sites in seven countries (urban sites in cuba  venezuela  and dominican republic  urban and rural sites in peru  mexico  china and india). all those aged 65 years and over living in geographically defined catchment areas were eligible. in all  15 022 interviews were completed with an informant interview for each participant. the full 10/66 dementia research group survey protocol was applied  including ascertainment of depression  dementia  physical impairments and self-reported diagnoses. dependence was interviewer-rated based on a key informant's responses to a set of open-ended questions on the participant's needs for care. we estimated the prevalence of dependence and the independent contribution of underlying health conditions. site-specific prevalence ratios were meta-analysed  and population attributable prevalence fractions (papf) calculated. results the prevalence of dependence increased with age at all sites  with a tendency for the prevalence to be lower in men than in women. age-standardised prevalence was lower in all sites than in the usa. other than in rural china  dementia made the largest independent contribution to dependence  with a median papf of 34% (range 23%-59%). other substantial contributors were limb impairment (9%  1%-46%)  stroke (8%  2%-17%)  and depression (8%  1%-27%). conclusion the demographic and health transitions will lead to large and rapid increases in the numbers of dependent older people particularly in middle income countries (mic). the prevention and control of chronic neurological and neuropsychiatric diseases and the development of long-term care policies and plans should be urgent priorities.
2296,clinical algorithms for malaria diagnosis lack utility among people of different age groups.,we conducted a study to determine whether clinical algorithms would be useful in malaria diagnosis among people living in an area of moderate malaria transmission within kilifi district in kenya. a total of 1602 people of all age groups participated. we took smears and recorded clinical signs and symptoms (prompted or spontaneous) of all those presenting to the study clinic with a history of fever. a malaria case was defined as a person presenting to the clinic with a history of fever and concurrent parasitaemia. a set of clinical signs and symptoms (algorithms) with the highest sensitivity and specificity for diagnosing a malaria case was selected for the age groups </=5 years  6-14 years and >/=15 years. these age-optimized derived algorithms were able to identify about 66% of the cases among those <15 years of age but only 23% of cases among adults. were these algorithms to be used as a basis for a decision on treatment among those presenting to the clinic  16% of children </=5 years  44% of those 6-14 years of age and 66% of the adults who had a history of fever and parasitaemia >/=5000 parasites/microl of blood would be sent home without treatment. clinical algorithms therefore appear to have little utility in malaria diagnosis  performing even worse in the older age groups  where avoiding unnecessary use of anti-malarials would make more drugs available to the really needy population of children under 5 years of age.
2298,maternal obesity epigenetically alters visceral fat progenitor cell properties in male offspring mice.,key points maternal obesity reduces adipogenic progenitor density in offspring adipose tissue. the ability of adipose tissue expansion in the offspring of obese mothers is limited and is associated with metabolic dysfunction of adipose tissue when challenged with a high-fat diet. maternal obesity induces dna demethylation in the promoter of zinc finger protein 423  which renders progenitor cells with a high adipogenic capacity. maternal obesity demonstrates long-term effects on the adipogenic capacity of progenitor cells in offspring adipose tissue  demonstrating a developmental programming effect. abstract maternal obesity (mo) programs offspring obesity and metabolic disorders  although the underlying mechanisms remain poorly defined. progenitor cells are the source of new adipocytes. the present study aimed to test whether mo epigenetically predisposes adipocyte progenitors in the fat of offspring to adipogenic differentiation and subsequent depletion  which leads to a failure of adipose tissue plasticity under positive energy balance  contributing to adipose tissue metabolic dysfunction. c57bl/6 female mice were fed either a control diet (10% energy from fat) or a high-fat diet (45% energy from fat) for 8 weeks before mating. male offspring of control (con) and obese (ob) dams were weaned onto a regular (reg) or obesogenic (obe) diet until 3 months of age. at weaning  male ob offspring had a higher expression of zinc finger protein 423 (zfp423)  a key transcription factor in adipogenesis  as well as lower dna methylation of its promoter in progenitors of epididymal fat compared to con offspring  which was correlated with enhanced adipogenic differentiation. at 3 months of age  progenitor density was 30.9 ± 9.7% lower in ob/obe compared to con/obe mice  accompanied by a limited expansion of the adipocyte number when challenged with a high-energy diet. this difference was associated with lower dna methylation in the zfp423 promoter in the epididymal fat of ob/obe offspring  which was correlated with greater macrophage chemotactic protein-1 and hypoxia-inducible factor 1α expression. in summary  mo epigenetically limits the expansion capacity of offspring adipose tissue  providing an explanation for the adipose metabolic dysfunction of male offspring in the setting of mo.
2300,line-1 retrotransposition activity in human genomes,highly active (i.e.  "hot") long interspersed element-1 (line-1 or l1) sequences comprise the bulk of retrotransposition activity in the human genome; however  the abundance of hot l1s in the human population remains largely unexplored. here  we used a fosmid-based  paired-end dna sequencing strategy to identify 68 full-length l1s that are differentially present among individuals but are absent from the human genome reference sequence. the majority of these l1s were highly active in a cultured cell retrotransposition assay. genotyping 26 elements revealed that two l1s are only found in africa and that two more are absent from the h952 subset of the human genome diversity panel. therefore  these results suggest that hot l1s are more abundant in the human population than previously appreciated  and that ongoing l1 retrotransposition continues to be a major source of interindividual genetic variation.
2302,pich: a dna translocase specially adapted for processing anaphase bridge dna.,the plk1-interacting checkpoint helicase (pich) protein localizes to ultrafine anaphase bridges (ufbs) in mitosis alongside a complex of dna repair proteins  including the bloom's syndrome protein (blm). however  very little is known about the function of pich or how it is recruited to ufbs. using a combination of microfluidics  fluorescence microscopy  and optical tweezers  we have defined the properties of pich in an in vitro model of an anaphase bridge. we show that pich binds with a remarkably high affinity to duplex dna  resulting in atp-dependent protein translocation and extension of the dna. most strikingly  the affinity of pich for binding dna increases with tension-induced dna stretching  which mimics the effect of the mitotic spindle on a ufb. pich binding also appears to diminish force-induced dna melting. we propose a model in which pich recognizes and stabilizes dna under tension during anaphase  thereby facilitating the resolution of entangled sister chromatids.
2304,major histocompatibility complex associations of ankylosing spondylitis are complex and involve further epistasis with erap1,ankylosing spondylitis (as) is a common  highly heritable  inflammatory arthritis for which hla-b*27 is the major genetic risk factor  although its role in the aetiology of as remains elusive. to better understand the genetic basis of the mhc susceptibility loci  we genotyped 7 264 mhc snps in 22 647 as cases and controls of european descent. we impute snps  classical hla alleles and amino-acid residues within hla proteins  and tested these for association to as status. here we show that in addition to effects due to hla-b*27 alleles  several other hla-b alleles also affect susceptibility. after controlling for the associated haplotypes in hla-b  we observe independent associations with variants in the hla-a  hla-dpb1 and hla-drb1 loci. we also demonstrate that the erap1 snp rs30187 association is not restricted only to carriers of hla-b*27 but also found in hla-b*40:01 carriers independently of hla-b*27 genotype.
2306,the ratio of monocytes to lymphocytes in peripheral blood correlates with increased susceptibility to clinical malaria in kenyan children,background plasmodium falciparum malaria remains a major cause of illness and death in sub-saharan africa. young children bear the brunt of the disease and though older children and adults suffer relatively fewer clinical attacks  they remain susceptible to asymptomatic p. falciparum infection. a better understanding of the host factors associated with immunity to clinical malaria and the ability to sustain asymptomatic p. falciparum infection will aid the development of improved strategies for disease prevention. methods and findings here we investigate whether full differential blood counts can predict susceptibility to clinical malaria among kenyan children sampled at five annual cross-sectional surveys. we find that the ratio of monocytes to lymphocytes  measured in peripheral blood at the time of survey  directly correlates with risk of clinical malaria during follow-up. this association is evident among children with asymptomatic p. falciparum infection at the time the cell counts are measured (hazard ratio (hr)  =  2.7 (95% ci 1.42  5.01  p  =  0.002) but not in those without detectable parasitaemia (hr  =  1.0 (95% ci 0.74  1.42  p  =  0.9). conclusions we propose that the monocyte to lymphocyte ratio  which is easily derived from routine full differential blood counts  reflects an individual's capacity to mount an effective immune response to p. falciparum infection.
2308,expression of versican 3′-untranslated region modulates endogenous microrna functions,background mature micrornas (mirnas) are single-stranded rnas that regulate post-transcriptional gene expression. in our previous study  we have shown that versican 3'utr  a fragment of non-coding transcript  has the ability to antagonize mir-199a-3p function thereby regulating expression of the matrix proteins versican and fibronectin  and thus resulting in enhanced cell-cell adhesion and organ adhesion. however  the impact of this non-coding fragment on tumorigenesis is yet to be determined. methods and findings using computational prediction confirmed with in vitro and in vivo experiments  we report that the expression of versican 3'utr not only antagonizes mir-199a-3p but can also lower its steady state expression. we found that expression of versican 3'utr in a mouse breast carcinoma cell line  4t1  decreased mir-199a-3p levels. the decrease in mirna activity consequently translated into differences in tumor growth. computational analysis indicated that both mir-199a-3p and mir-144 targeted a cell cycle regulator  rb1. in addition  mir-144 and mir-136  which have also been shown to interact with versican 3'utr  was found to target pten. expression of rb1 and pten were up-regulated synergistically in vitro and in vivo  suggesting that the 3'utr binds and modulates mirna activities  freeing rb1 and pten mrnas for translation. in tumor formation assays  cells transfected with the 3'utr formed smaller tumors compared with cells transfected with a control vector. conclusion our results demonstrated that a 3'utr fragment can be used to modulate mirna functions. our study also suggests that mirnas in the cancer cells are more susceptible to degradation  due to its interaction with a non-coding 3'utr. this non-coding component of mrna may be used retrospectively to modulate mirna activities.
2310,spatial co-distribution of neglected tropical diseases in the east african great lakes region: revisiting the justification for integrated control.,objective to determine spatial patterns of co-endemicity of schistosomiasis mansoni and the soil-transmitted helminths (sths) ascaris lumbricoides  trichuris trichiura and hookworm in the great lakes region of east africa  to help plan integrated neglected tropical disease programmes in this region. method parasitological surveys were conducted in uganda  tanzania  kenya and burundi in 28 213 children in 404 schools. bayesian geostatistical models were used to interpolate prevalence of these infections across the study area. interpolated prevalence maps were overlaid to determine areas of co-endemicity. results in the great lakes region  prevalence was 18.1% for schistosoma mansoni  50.0% for hookworm  6.8% for a. lumbricoides and 6.8% for t. trichiura. hookworm infection was ubiquitous  whereas s. mansoni  a. lumbricoides and t. trichiura were highly focal. most areas were endemic (prevalence >or=10%) or hyperendemic (prevalence >or=50%) for one or more sths  whereas endemic areas for schistosomiasis mansoni were restricted to foci adjacent large perennial water bodies. conclusion because of the ubiquity of hookworm  treatment programmes are required for sth throughout the region but efficient schistosomiasis control should only be targeted at limited high-risk areas. therefore  integration of schistosomiasis with sth control is only indicated in limited foci in east africa.
2312,combined single-cell functional and gene expression analysis resolves heterogeneity within stem cell populations,heterogeneity within the self-renewal durability of adult hematopoietic stem cells (hscs) challenges our understanding of the molecular framework underlying hsc function. gene expression studies have been hampered by the presence of multiple hsc subtypes and contaminating non-hscs in bulk hsc populations. to gain deeper insight into the gene expression program of murine hscs  we combined single-cell functional assays with flow cytometric index sorting and single-cell gene expression assays. through bioinformatic integration of these datasets  we designed an unbiased sorting strategy that separates non-hscs away from hscs  and single-cell transplantation experiments using the enriched population were combined with rna-seq data to identify key molecules that associate with long-term durable self-renewal  producing a single-cell molecular dataset that is linked to functional stem cell activity. finally  we demonstrated the broader applicability of this approach for linking key molecules with defined cellular functions in another stem cell system.
2314,directed actin polymerization is the driving force for epithelial cell–cell adhesion,we have found that epithelial cells engage in a process of cadherin-mediated intercellular adhesion that utilizes calcium and actin polymerization in unexpected ways. calcium stimulates filopodia  which penetrate and embed into neighboring cells. e-cadherin complexes cluster at filopodia tips  generating a two-rowed zipper of embedded puncta. opposing cell surfaces are clamped by desmosomes  while vinculin  zyxin  vasp  and mena are recruited to adhesion zippers by a mechanism that requires alpha-catenin. actin reorganizes and polymerizes to merge puncta into a single row and seal cell borders. in keratinocytes either null for alpha-catenin or blocked in vasp/mena function  filopodia embed  but actin reorganization/polymerization is prevented  and membranes cannot seal. taken together  a dynamic mechanism for intercellular adhesion is unveiled involving calcium-activated filopodia penetration and vasp/mena-dependent actin reorganization/polymerization.
2316,the association of red cell distribution width and in-hospital mortality in older adults admitted to the emergency department,background the objective of the study was to test the hypothesis that elevated red cell distribution width (rdw) at admission increases the risk of mortality in older patients admitted to the emergency department (ed). methods we performed a retrospective analysis of patients admitted to the ed between may 2013 and october 2013. we included patients who were older than 65 years who visited the ed with any medical problems. baseline rdw values were measured at the time of admission to the ed. the primary outcome was all-cause in-hospital mortality. multivariate logistic analysis was performed. results a total of 1 990 patients were finally included in this study. the mean age was 75 years (sd 7)  and 936 (47 %) subjects were male. the in-hospital mortality rate was 3.76 % (74 patients). rdw values higher in non-survivors than in survivors (15.9 ± 2.5 vs. 13.8 ± 1.7  p < 0.001). multivariate logistic analysis showed that rdw was associated with all-cause in-hospital mortality after adjusting for other confounding factors. discussion rdw value at admission is an independent predictor of all-cause in-hospital mortality among patients older than 65 years. after adjustment for multiple confounders  the all-cause in-hospital mortality rate increased by 21.8% for each 1% increase in rdw. conclusion these results show that rdw at admission is associated with in-hospital mortality among patients older than 65. thus  rdw at admission may represent a surrogate marker of disease severity. we caution against using these findings to aid clinical decision-making process until they are externally validated.
2318,life and death of cardiac stem cells: a paradigm shift in cardiac biology.,the recognition that myocyte mitosis occurs in the fetal  neonatal  adult  and hypertrophied heart and that a pool of primitive  undifferentiated cells is present in the myocardium has put forward a different view of the biology of the heart. the new paradigm suggests that myocyte formation is preserved during postnatal life  in adulthood or senescence  pointing to a remarkable growth reserve of the heart throughout the course of life of the organism. this article reviews a large body of novel information  which has been obtained in the last 2 decades  in favor of the notion that the mammalian heart has the inherent ability to continuously replace its parenchymal cells and that this unexpected characteristic has important implications in understanding myocardial homeostasis  cardiac aging  and tissue repair. the paradigm that the heart is a postmitotic organ incapable of regenerating parenchymal cells was established in the 1970s  and this dogma has profoundly conditioned basic and clinical research in cardiology for the last 3 decades. on the basis of this paradigm  cardiomyocytes undergo cellular hypertrophy1 2 but cannot be replaced either by entry into the cell cycle of a subpopulation of nonterminally differentiated myocytes or by activation of a pool of primitive cells that become committed to the myocyte lineage. the only response of cardiomyocytes to stress is hypertrophy and/or death. therefore  a tremendous effort was made to identify the molecular mechanisms of myocyte hypertrophy and their genetic control. a sophisticated knowledge of various signaling pathways has been achieved  and our understanding of the biology of hypertrophic myocyte growth has advanced markedly.3 an array of new technologies has been introduced that has led to a scientific revolution in terms of questions  approaches  and interpretation of experimental results. despite this enormous progress in our understanding of basic mechanisms of hypertrophy  however  very little …
2320,perceived age as clinically useful biomarker of ageing: cohort study.,objective to determine whether perceived age correlates with survival and important age related phenotypes. design follow-up study  with survival of twins determined up to january 2008  by which time 675 (37%) had died. setting population based twin cohort in denmark. participants 20 nurses  10 young men  and 11 older women (assessors); 1826 twins aged >or=70. main outcome measures assessors: perceived age of twins from photographs. twins: physical and cognitive tests and molecular biomarker of ageing (leucocyte telomere length). results for all three groups of assessors  perceived age was significantly associated with survival  even after adjustment for chronological age  sex  and rearing environment. perceived age was still significantly associated with survival after further adjustment for physical and cognitive functioning. the likelihood that the older looking twin of the pair died first increased with increasing discordance in perceived age within the twin pair-that is  the bigger the difference in perceived age within the pair  the more likely that the older looking twin died first. twin analyses suggested that common genetic factors influence both perceived age and survival. perceived age  controlled for chronological age and sex  also correlated significantly with physical and cognitive functioning as well as with leucocyte telomere length. conclusion perceived age-which is widely used by clinicians as a general indication of a patient's health-is a robust biomarker of ageing that predicts survival among those aged >or=70 and correlates with important functional and molecular ageing phenotypes.
2322,riesz pyramids for fast phase-based video magnification,we present a new compact image pyramid representation  the riesz pyramid  that can be used for real-time phase-based motion magnification. our new representation is less overcomplete than even the smallest two orientation  octave-bandwidth complex steerable pyramid  and can be implemented using compact  efficient linear filters in the spatial domain. motion-magnified videos produced with this new representation are of comparable quality to those produced with the complex steerable pyramid. when used with phase-based video magnification  the riesz pyramid phase-shifts image features along only their dominant orientation rather than every orientation like the complex steerable pyramid.
2324,mechanistic fracture criteria for the failure of human cortical bone,a mechanistic understanding of fracture in human bone is critical to predicting fracture risk associated with age and disease. despite extensive work  a mechanistic framework for describing how the microstructure affects the failure of bone is lacking. although micromechanical models incorporating local failure criteria have been developed for metallic and ceramic materials  few such models exist for biological materials. in fact  there is no proof to support the widely held belief that fracture in bone is locally strain-controlled  as for example has been shown for ductile fracture in metallic materials. in the present study  we provide such evidence through a novel series of experiments involving a double-notch-bend geometry  designed to shed light on the nature of the critical failure events in bone. we examine how the propagating crack interacts with the bone microstructure to provide some mechanistic understanding of fracture and to define how properties vary with orientation. it was found that fracture in human cortical bone is consistent with strain-controlled failure  and the influence of microstructure can be described in terms of several toughening mechanisms. we provide estimates of the relative importance of these mechanisms  such as uncracked-ligament bridging.
2326,retinoic acid-related orphan receptors α and γ: key regulators of lipid/glucose metabolism  inflammation  and insulin sensitivity,retinoic acid-related orphan receptors rorα and rorγ play a regulatory role in lipid/glucose homeostasis and various immune functions  and have been implicated in metabolic syndrome and several inflammatory diseases. rorα-deficient mice are protected against age- and diet-induced obesity  hepatosteatosis  and insulin resistance. the resistance to hepatosteatosis in rorα-deficient mice is related to the reduced expression of several genes regulating lipid synthesis  transport  and storage. adipose tissue-associated inflammation  which plays a critical role in the development of insulin resistance  is considerably diminished in rorα-deficient mice as indicated by the reduced infiltration of m1 macrophages and decreased expression of many proinflammatory genes. deficiency in rorγ also protects against diet-induced insulin resistance by a mechanism that appears different from that in rorα deficiency. recent studies indicated that rors provide an important link between the circadian clock machinery and its regulation of metabolic genes and metabolic syndrome. as ligand-dependent transcription factors  rors may provide novel therapeutic targets in the management of obesity and associated metabolic diseases  including hepatosteatosis  adipose tissue-associated inflammation  and insulin resistance.
2328,the ran gtpase regulates mitotic spindle assembly,ran is an abundant nuclear gtpase with a clear role in nuclear transport during interphase but with roles in mitotic regulation that are less well understood. the nucleotide-binding state of ran is regulated by a gtpase activating protein  rangap1  and by a guanine nucleotide exchange factor  rcc1. ran also interacts with a guanine nucleotide dissociation inhibitor  ranbp1. ranbp1 has a high affinity for gtp-bound ran  and it acts as a cofactor for rangap1  increasing the rate of gap-mediated gtp hydrolysis on ran approximately tenfold. ranbp1 levels oscillate during the cell cycle [4]  and increased concentrations of ranbp1 prolong mitosis in mammalian cells and in xenopus egg extracts (our unpublished observations). we investigated how increased concentrations of ranbp1 disturb mitosis. we found that spindle assembly is dramatically disrupted when exogenous ranbp1 is added to m phase xenopus egg extracts. we present evidence that the role of ran in spindle assembly is independent of nuclear transport and is probably mediated through changes in microtubule dynamics.
2330,stem cells and early lineage development,the recent derivation of pluripotent stem cell lines from a number of different sources  including reprogrammed adult somatic cells  raises the issue of the developmental equivalence of these different pluripotent states. at least two different states representing the epiblast progenitors in the blastocyst and the pluripotent progenitors of the later gastrulating embryo have been recognized. understanding the initial developmental status of the different pluripotent lines is critical for defining starting conditions for differentiation toward therapeutically relevant cell types.
2332,s-phase-promoting cyclin-dependent kinases prevent re-replication by inhibiting the transition of replication origins to a pre-replicative state,background dna replication and mitosis are triggered by activation of kinase complexes  each made up of a cyclin and a cyclin-dependent kinase (cdk). it had seemed possible that the association of cdks with different classes of cyclins specifies whether s phase (replication) or m phase (mitosis) will occur. the recent finding that individual b-type cyclins (encoded by the genes clb1-clb6) can have functions in both processes in the budding yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae casts doubt on this notion. results s. cerevisiae strains lacking c1b1-c1b4 undergo dna replication once but fail to enter mitosis. we have isolated mutations in two genes  sim1 and sim2 (sim2 is identical to sec72)  which allow such cells to undergo an extra round of dna replication without mitosis. the clb5 kinase  which promotes s phase  remains active during the g2-phase arrest of cells of the parental strain  but its activity declines rapidly in sim mutants. increased expression of the clb5 gene prevents re-replication. thus  a cyclin b-kinase that promotes dna replication in g1-phase cells can prevent re-replication in g2-phase cells. inactivation of c1b kinases by expression of the specific c1b-cdk1 inhibitor p40sic1 is sufficient to induce a prereplicative state at origins of replication in cells blocked in g2/m phase by nocodazole. re-activation of c1b-cdk1 kinases induces a second round of dna replication. conclusions we propose that s-phase-promoting cyclin b--cdk complexes prevent re-replication during s  g2 and m phases by inhibiting the transition of replication origins to a pre-replicative state. this model can explain both why origins 'fire' only once per s phase and why s phase is dependent on completion of the preceding m phase.
2334,structure of actin-related protein 8 and its contribution to nucleosome binding,nuclear actin-related proteins (arps) are subunits of several chromatin remodelers  but their molecular functions within these complexes are unclear. we report the crystal structure of the ino80 complex subunit arp8 in its atp-bound form. human arp8 has several insertions in the conserved actin fold that explain its inability to polymerize. most remarkably  one insertion wraps over the active site cleft and appears to rigidify the domain architecture  while active site features shared with actin suggest an allosterically controlled atpase activity. quantitative binding studies with nucleosomes and histone complexes reveal that arp8 and the arp8-arp4-actin-hsa sub-complex of ino80 strongly prefer nucleosomes and h3-h4 tetramers over h2a-h2b dimers  suggesting that arp8 functions as a nucleosome recognition module. in contrast  arp4 prefers free (h3-h4)(2) over nucleosomes and may serve remodelers through binding to (dis)assembly intermediates in the remodeling reaction.
2336,electroporation enables the efficient mrna delivery into the mouse zygotes and facilitates crispr/cas9-based genome editing,recent use of the crispr/cas9 system has dramatically reduced the time required to produce mutant mice  but the involvement of a time-consuming microinjection step still hampers its application for high-throughput genetic analysis. here we developed a simple  highly efficient  and large-scale genome editing method  in which the rnas for the crispr/cas9 system are electroporated into zygotes rather than microinjected. we used this method to perform single-stranded oligodeoxynucleotide (ssodn)-mediated knock-in in mouse embryos. this method facilitates large-scale genetic analysis in the mouse.
2338,the buccaneer software for automated model building. 1. tracing protein chains.,a new technique for the automated tracing of protein chains in experimental electron-density maps is described. the technique relies on the repeated application of an oriented electron-density likelihood target function to identify likely c(alpha) positions. this function is applied both in the location of a few promising ;seed' positions in the map and to grow those initial c(alpha) positions into extended chain fragments. techniques for assembling the chain fragments into an initial chain trace are discussed.
2340,the miniature genome of a carnivorous plant genlisea aurea contains a low number of genes and short non-coding sequences,background genlisea aurea (lentibulariaceae) is a carnivorous plant with unusually small genome size - 63.6 mb - one of the smallest known among higher plants. data on the genome sizes and the phylogeny of genlisea suggest that this is a derived state within the genus. thus  g. aurea is an excellent model organism for studying evolutionary mechanisms of genome contraction. results here we report sequencing and de novo draft assembly of g. aurea genome. the assembly consists of 10 687 contigs of the total length of 43.4 mb and includes 17 755 complete and partial protein-coding genes. its comparison with the genome of mimulus guttatus  another representative of higher core lamiales clade  reveals striking differences in gene content and length of non-coding regions. conclusions genome contraction was a complex process  which involved gene loss and reduction of lengths of introns and intergenic regions  but not intron loss. the gene loss is more frequent for the genes that belong to multigenic families indicating that genetic redundancy is an important prerequisite for genome size reduction.
2342,wdr5 mediates self-renewal and reprogramming via the embryonic stem cell core transcriptional network,the embryonic stem (es) cell transcriptional and chromatin-modifying networks are critical for self-renewal maintenance. however  it remains unclear whether these networks functionally interact and  if so  what factors mediate such interactions. here  we show that wd repeat domain 5 (wdr5)  a core member of the mammalian trithorax (trxg) complex  positively correlates with the undifferentiated state and is a regulator of es cell self-renewal. we demonstrate that wdr5  an "effector" of h3k4 methylation  interacts with the pluripotency transcription factor oct4. genome-wide protein localization and transcriptome analyses demonstrate overlapping gene regulatory functions between oct4 and wdr5. the oct4-sox2-nanog circuitry and trxg cooperate in activating transcription of key self-renewal regulators  and furthermore  wdr5 expression is required for the efficient formation of induced pluripotent stem (ips) cells. we propose an integrated model of transcriptional and epigenetic control  mediated by select trxg members  for the maintenance of es cell self-renewal and somatic cell reprogramming.
2344,responses of primate frontal cortex neurons during natural vocal communication.,the role of primate frontal cortex in vocal communication and its significance in language evolution have a controversial history. while evidence indicates that vocalization processing occurs in ventrolateral prefrontal cortex neurons  vocal-motor activity has been conjectured to be primarily subcortical and suggestive of a distinctly different neural architecture from humans. direct evidence of neural activity during natural vocal communication is limited  as previous studies were performed in chair-restrained animals. here we recorded the activity of single neurons across multiple regions of prefrontal and premotor cortex while freely moving marmosets engaged in a natural vocal behavior known as antiphonal calling. our aim was to test whether neurons in marmoset frontal cortex exhibited responses during vocal-signal processing and/or vocal-motor production in the context of active  natural communication. we observed motor-related changes in single neuron activity during vocal production  but relatively weak sensory responses for vocalization processing during this natural behavior. vocal-motor responses occurred both prior to and during call production and were typically coupled to the timing of each vocalization pulse. despite the relatively weak sensory responses a population classifier was able to distinguish between neural activity that occurred during presentations of vocalization stimuli that elicited an antiphonal response and those that did not. these findings are suggestive of the role that nonhuman primate frontal cortex neurons play in natural communication and provide an important foundation for more explicit tests of the functional contributions of these neocortical areas during vocal behaviors.
2346,a role for nusap in linking microtubules to mitotic chromosomes,the spindle apparatus is a microtubule (mt)-based machinery that attaches to and segregates the chromosomes during mitosis and meiosis. self-organization of the spindle around chromatin involves the assembly of mts  their attachment to the chromosomes  and their organization into a bipolar array. one regulator of spindle self-organization is rangtp. rangtp is generated at chromatin and activates a set of soluble  ran-regulated spindle factors such as tpx2  numa  and nusap . how the spindle factors direct and attach mts to the chromosomes are key open questions. nucleolar and spindle-associated protein (nusap) was recently identified as an essential mt-stabilizing and bundling protein that is enriched at the central part of the spindle . here  we show by biochemical reconstitution that nusap efficiently adsorbs to isolated chromatin and dna and that it can directly produce and retain high concentrations of mts in the immediate vicinity of chromatin or dna. moreover  our data reveal that nusap-chromatin interaction is subject to ran regulation and can be suppressed by importin alpha (impalpha) and imp7. we propose that the presence of mt binding agents such as nusap  which can be directly immobilized on chromatin  are critical for targeting mt production to vertebrate chromosomes during spindle self-organization.
2348,small molecule modifiers of circadian clocks,circadian clocks orchestrate 24-h oscillations of essential physiological and behavioral processes in response to daily environmental changes. these clocks are remarkably precise under constant conditions yet highly responsive to resetting signals. with the molecular composition of the core oscillator largely established  recent research has increasingly focused on clock-modifying mechanisms/molecules. in particular  small molecule modifiers  intrinsic or extrinsic  are emerging as powerful tools for understanding basic clock biology as well as developing putative therapeutic agents for clock-associated diseases. in this review  we will focus on synthetic compounds capable of modifying the period  phase  or amplitude of circadian clocks  with particular emphasis on the mammalian clock. we will discuss the potential of exploiting these small molecule modifiers in both basic and translational research.
2350,pharmacokinetic  pharmacodynamic  and pharmacogenetic determinants of osteonecrosis in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia.,osteonecrosis is a severe glucocorticoid-induced complication of acute lymphoblastic leukemia treatment. we prospectively screened children (n = 364) with magnetic resonance imaging of hips and knees  regardless of symptoms; the cumulative incidence of any (grade 1-4) versus symptomatic (grade 2-4) osteonecrosis was 71.8% versus 17.6%  respectively. we investigated whether age  race  sex  acute lymphoblastic leukemia treatment arm  body mass  serum lipids  albumin and cortisol levels  dexamethasone pharmacokinetics  and genome-wide germline genetic polymorphisms were associated with symptomatic osteonecrosis. age more than 10 years (odds ratio  = 4.85; 95% confidence interval  2.5-9.2; p = .00001) and more intensive treatment (odds ratio = 2.5; 95% confidence interval  1.2-4.9; p = .011) were risk factors and included as covariates in all analyses. lower albumin (p = .05) and elevated cholesterol (p = .02) associated with symptomatic osteonecrosis  and severe (grade 3 or 4) osteonecrosis was linked to poor dexamethasone clearance (p = .0005). adjusting for clinical features  polymorphisms of acp1 (eg  rs12714403  p = 1.9 × 10(-6)  odds ratio = 5.6; 95% confidence interval  2.7-11.3)  which regulates lipid levels and osteoblast differentiation  were associated with risk of osteonecrosis as well as with lower albumin and higher cholesterol. overall  older age  lower albumin  higher lipid levels  and dexamethasone exposure were associated with osteonecrosis and may be linked by inherited genomic variation.
2352,direct-coupling analysis of residue co-evolution captures native contacts across many protein families,the similarity in the three-dimensional structures of homologous proteins imposes strong constraints on their sequence variability. it has long been suggested that the resulting correlations among amino acid compositions at different sequence positions can be exploited to infer spatial contacts within the tertiary protein structure. crucial to this inference is the ability to disentangle direct and indirect correlations  as accomplished by the recently introduced direct coupling analysis (dca) (weigt et al. (2009) proc natl acad sci 106:67). here we develop a computationally efficient implementation of dca  which allows us to evaluate the accuracy of contact prediction by dca for a large number of protein domains  based purely on sequence information. dca is shown to yield a large number of correctly predicted contacts  recapitulating the global structure of the contact map for the majority of the protein domains examined. furthermore  our analysis captures clear signals beyond intra- domain residue contacts  arising  e.g.  from alternative protein conformations  ligand- mediated residue couplings  and inter-domain interactions in protein oligomers. our findings suggest that contacts predicted by dca can be used as a reliable guide to facilitate computational predictions of alternative protein conformations  protein complex formation  and even the de novo prediction of protein domain structures  provided the existence of a large number of homologous sequences which are being rapidly made available due to advances in genome sequencing.
2354,dorsomorphin  a selective small molecule inhibitor of bmp signaling  promotes cardiomyogenesis in embryonic stem cells,background pluripotent embryonic stem (es) cells  which have the capacity to give rise to all tissue types in the body  show great promise as a versatile source of cells for regenerative therapy. however  the basic mechanisms of lineage specification of pluripotent stem cells are largely unknown  and generating sufficient quantities of desired cell types remains a formidable challenge. small molecules  particularly those that modulate key developmental pathways like the bone morphogenetic protein (bmp) signaling cascade  hold promise as tools to study in vitro lineage specification and to direct differentiation of stem cells toward particular cell types. methodology/ principal findings we describe the use of dorsomorphin  a selective small molecule inhibitor of bmp signaling  to induce myocardial differentiation in mouse es cells. cardiac induction is very robust  increasing the yield of spontaneously beating cardiomyocytes by at least 20 fold. dorsomorphin  unlike the endogenous bmp antagonist noggin  robustly induces cardiomyogenesis when treatment is limited to the initial 24-hours of es cell differentiation. quantitative-pcr analyses of differentiating es cells indicate that pharmacological inhibition of bmp signaling during the early critical stage promotes the development of the cardiomyocyte lineage  but reduces the differentiation of endothelial  smooth muscle  and hematopoietic cells. conclusions/ significance administration of a selective small molecule bmp inhibitor during the initial stages of es cell differentiation substantially promotes the differentiation of primitive pluripotent cells toward the cardiomyocytic lineage  apparently at the expense of other mesodermal lineages. small molecule modulators of developmental pathways like dorsomorphin could become versatile pharmacological tools for stem cell research and regenerative medicine.
2356,interneuronal disc1 regulates nrg1-erbb4 signalling and excitatory-inhibitory synapse formation in the mature cortex.,neuregulin-1 (nrg1) and its receptor erbb4 influence several processes of neurodevelopment  but the mechanisms regulating this signalling in the mature brain are not well known. disc1 is a multifunctional scaffold protein that mediates many cellular processes. here we present a functional relationship between disc1 and nrg1-erbb4 signalling in mature cortical interneurons. by cell type-specific gene modulation in vitro and in vivo including in a mutant disc1 mouse model  we demonstrate that disc1 inhibits nrg1-induced erbb4 activation and signalling. this effect is likely mediated by competitive inhibition of binding of erbb4 to psd95. finally  we show that interneuronal disc1 affects nrg1-erbb4-mediated phenotypes in the fast spiking interneuron-pyramidal neuron circuit. post-mortem brain analyses and some genetic studies have reported interneuronal deficits and involvement of the disc1  nrg1 and erbb4 genes in schizophrenia  respectively. our results suggest a mechanism by which cross-talk between disc1 and nrg1-erbb4 signalling may contribute to these deficits.
2358,hclock gene expression in human colorectal carcinoma.,in this study  we aimed to investigate changes in the expression of human clock (hclock)  a gene at the core of the circadian gene family  in colorectal carcinomas (crcs) and to discuss the possible effects. previous studies have revealed that the disruption of circadian rhythms is one of the endogenous factors that contribute to the initiation and development of crcs. however  the underlying molecular changes to the circadian genes associated with crcs have not been explored. immunofluorescence and quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qpcr) analysis of the hclock protein and gene expression were performed in 30 cases of crc. the hclock protein was expressed in all specimens obtained from 30 crc patients. higher levels of hclock expression were observed in human crc tissues compared with the paired non-cancerous tissues. hclock expression was significantly higher in poorly differentiated  or late-stage  dukes' grade tumors and in 64.3% of tumor cases with lymph node metastasis. the hclock gene was expressed in all specimens. a significantly higher expression of hclock was found in human crc cases compared with paired non-cancerous tissues. there was a strong positive linear correlation between hclock gene expression and protein expression in human crcs. a strong positive linear correlation was also found between hclock gene expression and arnt  hif-1α and vegf expression in human crcs. there was no significant correlation between hclock and bak  bax  bid  tumor necrosis factor receptor i (tnfr i) and tnfr ii. the circadian gene hclock was stably expressed in human colorectal mucosa and was important in regulating the expression of downstream clock-controlled genes. hclock may interact with hif-1α/arnt and activate vegf to stimulate tumor angiogenesis and metastasis.
2360,a family of phosphoinositide 3-kinases in drosophila identifies a new mediator of signal transduction,background mammalian phosphoinositide 3-kinases (pi 3-kinases) are involved in receptor-mediated signal transduction and have been implicated in processes such as transformation and mitogenesis through their role in elevating cellular phosphatidylinositol (3 4 5)-trisphosphate. additionally  a pi 3-kinase activity which generates phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate has been shown to be required for protein trafficking in yeast. results we have identified a family of three distinct pi 3-kinases in drosophila  using an approach based on the polymerase chain reaction to amplify a region corresponding to the conserved catalytic domain of pi 3-kinases. one of these family members  pi3k_92d  is closely related to the prototypical pi 3-kinase  p110 alpha; pi3k_59f is homologous to vps34p  whereas the third  pi3k_68d  is a novel pi 3-kinase which is widely expressed throughout the drosophila life cycle. the pi3k_68d cdna encodes a protein of 210 kda  which lacks sequences implicated in linking p110 pi 3-kinases to p85 adaptor proteins  but contains an amino-terminal proline-rich sequence  which could bind to sh3 domains  and a carboxy-terminal c2 domain. biochemical analyses demonstrate that pi3k_68d has a novel substrate specificity in vitro  restricted to phosphatidylinositol and phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate  and is unable to phosphorylate phosphatidylinositol (4 5)-bisphosphate  the implied in vivo substrate for p110. conclusions a family of pi 3-kinases in drosophila  including a novel class represented by pi3k_68d  is described. pi3k_68d has the potential to bind to signalling molecules containing sh3 domains  lacks p85-adaptor-binding sequences  has a ca(2+)-independent phospholipid-binding domain and displays a restricted in vitro substrate specificity  so it could define a novel signal transduction pathway.
2362,neural crest cell lineage segregation in the mouse neural tube.,neural crest (nc) cells arise in the dorsal neural tube (nt) and migrate into the embryo to develop into many different cell types. a major unresolved question is when and how the fate of nc cells is decided. there is widespread evidence for multipotential nc cells  whose fates are decided during or after migration. there is also some evidence that the nc is already divided into subpopulations of discrete precursors within the nt. we have investigated this question in the mouse embryo. we find that a subpopulation of cells on the most dorsomedial aspect of the nt express the receptor tyrosine kinase kit (previously known as c-kit)  emigrate exclusively into the developing dermis  and then express definitive markers of the melanocyte lineage. these are thus melanocyte progenitor cells. they are generated predominantly at the midbrain-hindbrain junction and cervical trunk  with significant numbers also in lower trunk. other cells within the dorsal nt are kit-  migrate ventrally  and  from embryonic day 9.5  express the neurotrophin receptor p75. these cells most likely only give rise to ventral nc derivatives such as neurons and glia. the p75+ cells are located ventrolateral to the kit+ cells in areas of the nt where these two cell types are found. these data provide direct in vivo evidence for nc lineage segregation within the mouse neural tube.
2364,fission yeast scm3: a cenp-a receptor required for integrity of subkinetochore chromatin,the mechanisms ensuring specific incorporation of cenp-a at centromeres are poorly understood. mis16 and mis18 are required for cenp-a localization at centromeres and form a complex that is conserved from fission yeast to human. fission yeast sim1 mutants that alleviate kinetochore domain silencing are defective in scm3(sp)  the ortholog of budding yeast scm3(sc). scm3(sp) depends on mis16/18 for its centromere localization and like them is recruited to centromeres in late anaphase. importantly  scm3(sp) coaffinity purifies with cenp-a(cnp1) and associates with cenp-a(cnp1) in vitro  yet localizes independently of intact cenp-a(cnp1) chromatin and is differentially released from chromatin. while scm3(sc) has been proposed to form a unique hexameric nucleosome with cenp-a(cse4) and histone h4 at budding yeast point centromeres  we favor a model in which scm3(sp) acts as a cenp-a(cnp1) receptor/assembly factor  cooperating with mis16 and mis18 to receive cenp-a(cnp1) from the sim3 escort and mediate assembly of cenp-a(cnp1) into subkinetochore chromatin.
2366,a comparison of continuous and bi-level positive airway pressure non-invasive ventilation in patients with acute cardiogenic pulmonary oedema: a meta-analysis,introductionwe conducted the present study to investigate the potential beneficial and adverse effects of continuous positive airway pressure (cpap) compared with bi-level positive airway pressure (bipap) noninvasive ventilation in patients with cardiogenic pulmonary oedema. methodwe included randomized controlled studies comparing cpap and bipap treatment in patients with cardiogenic pulmonary oedema from the cochrane controlled trials register (2005 issue 3)  and embase and medline databases (1966 to 1 december 2005)  without language restriction. two reviewers reviewed the quality of the studies and independently performed data extraction. resultsseven randomized controlled studies  including a total of 290 patients with cardiogenic pulmonary oedema  were considered. the hospital mortality (relative risk [rr] 0.76  95% confidence interval [ci] 0.32–1.78; p = 0.52; i2 = 0%) and risk for requiring invasive ventilation (rr 0.80  95% ci 0.33–1.94; p = 0.62; i2 = 0%) were not significantly different between patients treated with cpap and those treated with bipap. stratifying studies that used either fixed or titrated pressure during bipap treatment and studies involving patients with or without hypercapnia did not change the results. the duration of noninvasive ventilation required until the pulmonary oedema resolved (weighted mean difference [wmd] in hours = 3.65  95% ci -12.12 to +19.43; p = 0.65  i2 = 0%) and length of hospital stay (wmd in days = -0.04  95% ci -2.57 to +2.48; p = 0.97  i2 = 0%) were also not significantly different between the two groups. based on the limited data available  there was an insignificant trend toward an increase in new onset acute myocardial infarction in patients treated with bipap (rr 2.10  95% ci 0.91–4.84; p = 0.08; i2 = 25.3%).conclusionbipap does not offer any significant clinical benefits over cpap in patients with acute cardiogenic pulmonary oedema. until a large randomized controlled trial shows significant clinical benefit and cost-effectiveness of bipap versus cpap in patients with acute cardiogenic pulmonary oedema  the choice of modality will depend mainly on the equipment available.
2368,microrna response of primary human macrophages to arcobacter butzleri infection,the role of micrornas (mirnas) in infectious diseases is becoming more and more apparent  and the use of mirnas as a diagnostic tool and their therapeutic application has become the major focus of investigation. the aim of this study was to identify mirnas involved in the immune signaling of macrophages in response to arcobacter (a.) butzleri infection  an emerging foodborne pathogen causing gastroenteritis. therefore  primary human macrophages were isolated and infected  and mirna expression was studied by means of rnaseq. analysis of the data revealed the expression of several mirnas  which were previously associated with bacterial infections such as mir-155  mir-125  and mir-212. they were shown to play a key role in toll-like receptor signaling where they act as fine-tuners to establish a balanced immune response. in addition  mirnas which have yet not been identified during bacterial infections such as mir-3613  mir-2116  mir-671  mir-30d  and mir-629 were differentially regulated in a. butzleri-infected cells. targets of these mirnas accumulated in pathways such as apoptosis and endocytosis - processes that might be involved in a. butzleri pathogenesis. our study contributes new findings about the interaction of a. butzleri with human innate immune cells helping to understand underlying regulatory mechanisms in macrophages during infection.
2370,properties of commelina yellow mottle virus's complete dna sequence  genomic discontinuities and transcript suggest that it is a pararetrovirus.,the non-enveloped bacilliform viruses are the second group of plant viruses known to possess a genome consisting of circular double-stranded dna. we have characterized the viral transcript and determined the complete sequence of the genome of commelina mellow mottle virus (coymv)  a member of this group. analysis of the viral transcript indicates that the virus encodes a single terminally-redundant genome-length plus 120 nucleotide transcript. a fraction of the transcripts is polyadenylated  although the majority of the transcript is not polyadenylated. analysis of the genome sequence indicates that the genome is 7489 bp in size and that the transcribed strand contains three open reading frames capable of encoding proteins of 23  15 and 216 kd. the function of the 25 and 15 kd proteins is unknown. similarities between the 216 kd polypeptide and the cauliflower mosaic virus coat protein and protease/reverse transcriptase polyprotein suggest that the 216 kd polypeptide is a polyprotein that is proteolytically processed to yield the virion coat protein  a protease  and replicase (reverse transcriptase and ribonuclease h). each strand of the coymv genome is interrupted by site-specific discontinuities. the locations of the 5'-ends of these discontinuities  and the presence and location of a region on the coymv transcript capable of annealing with the 3'-end of cytosolic initiator methionine trna are consistent with replication by reverse transcription. we have demonstrated that a construct containing 1.3 coymv genomes is infective when introduced into commelina diffusa  the host for coymv  using agrobacterium-mediated infection.
2372,regulation of myeloid cell function through the cd200 receptor.,myeloid cells play pivotal roles in chronic inflammatory diseases through their broad proinflammatory  destructive  and remodeling capacities. cd200 is widely expressed on a variety of cell types  while the recently identified cd200r is expressed on myeloid cells and t cells. cd200 deletion in vivo results in myeloid cell dysregulation and enhanced susceptibility to autoimmune inflammation  suggesting that the cd200-cd200r interaction is involved in immune suppression. we demonstrate in this study that cd200r agonists suppress mouse and human myeloid cell function in vitro  and also define a dose relationship between receptor expression and cellular inhibition. ifn-gamma- and il-17-stimulated cytokine secretion from mouse peritoneal macrophages was inhibited by cd200r engagement. inhibitory effects were not universal  as lps-stimulated responses were unaffected. inhibition of u937 cell cytokine production correlated with cd200r expression levels  and inhibition was only observed in low cd200r expressing cells  if the cd200r agonists were further cross-linked. tetanus toxoid-induced human pbmc il-5 and il-13 secretion was inhibited by cd200r agonists. this inhibition was dependent upon cross-linking the cd200r on monocytes  but not on cross-linking the cd200r on cd4+ t cells. in all  we provide direct evidence that the cd200-cd200r interaction controls monocyte/macrophage function in both murine and human systems  further supporting the potential clinical application of cd200r agonists for the treatment of chronic inflammatory diseases.
2374,equity in adherence to antiretroviral therapy among economically vulnerable adolescents living with hiv in uganda,studies from sub-saharan africa indicate that children made vulnerable by poverty have been disproportionately affected by hiv with many exposed via mother-to-child transmission. for youth living with hiv  adherence to life-saving treatment regimens are likely to be affected by the complex set of economic and social circumstances that challenge their families and also exacerbate health problems. using baseline data from the national institute of child and human development (nichd) funded suubi+adherence study  we examined the extent to which individual and composite measures of equity predict self-reported adherence among ugandan adolescents aged 10-16 (n = 702) living with hiv. results showed that greater asset ownership  specifically familial possession of seven or more tangible assets  was associated with greater odds of self-reported adherence (or 1.69  95% ci: 1.00-2.85). our analyses also indicated that distance to the nearest health clinic impacts youth's adherence to an arv regimen. youth who reported living nearest to a clinic were significantly more likely to report optimal adherence (or 1.49  95% ci: 0.92-2.40). moreover  applying the composite equity scores  we found that adolescents with greater economic advantage in ownership of household assets  financial savings  and caregiver employment had higher odds of adherence by a factor of 1.70 (95% ci: 1.07-2.70). these findings suggest that interventions addressing economic and social inequities may be beneficial to increase antiretroviral therapy (art) uptake among economically vulnerable youth  especially in sub-saharan africa. this is one of the first studies to address the question of equity in adherence to art among economically vulnerable youth with hiv.
2376,tyrosine phosphorylation regulates the endocytosis and surface expression of glun3a-containing nmda receptors.,selective control of receptor trafficking provides a mechanism for remodeling the receptor composition of excitatory synapses  and thus supports synaptic transmission  plasticity  and development. glun3a (formerly nr3a) is a nonconventional member of the nmda receptor (nmdar) subunit family  which endows nmdar channels with low calcium permeability and reduced magnesium sensitivity compared with nmdars comprising only glun1 and glun2 subunits. because of these special properties  glun3a subunits act as a molecular brake to limit the plasticity and maturation of excitatory synapses  pointing toward glun3a removal as a critical step in the development of neuronal circuitry. however  the molecular signals mediating glun3a endocytic removal remain unclear. here we define a novel endocytic motif (ywl)  which is located within the cytoplasmic c-terminal tail of glun3a and mediates its binding to the clathrin adaptor ap2. alanine mutations within the glun3a endocytic motif inhibited clathrin-dependent internalization and led to accumulation of glun3a-containing nmdars at the cell surface  whereas mimicking phosphorylation of the tyrosine residue promoted internalization and reduced cell-surface expression as shown by immunocytochemical and electrophysiological approaches in recombinant systems and rat neurons in primary culture. we further demonstrate that the tyrosine residue is phosphorylated by src family kinases  and that src-activation limits surface glun3a expression in neurons. together  our results identify a new molecular signal for glun3a internalization that couples the functional surface expression of glun3a-containing receptors to the phosphorylation state of glun3a subunits  and provides a molecular framework for the regulation of nmdar subunit composition with implications for synaptic plasticity and neurodevelopment.
2378,epidemiology of staphylococcus aureus blood and skin and soft tissue infections in the us military health system  2005-2010.,context rates of hospital-onset methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus (mrsa) infections are reported as decreasing  but recent rates of community-onset s. aureus infections are less known. objectives to characterize the overall and annual incidence rates of community-onset and hospital-onset s. aureus bacteremia and skin and soft tissue infections (sstis) in a national health care system and to evaluate trends in the incidence rates of s. aureus bacteremia and sstis and the proportion due to mrsa. design  setting  and participants observational study of all department of defense tricare beneficiaries from january 2005 through december 2010. medical record databases were used to identify and classify all annual first-positive s. aureus blood and wound or abscess cultures as methicillin-susceptible s. aureus or mrsa  and as community-onset or hospital-onset infections (isolates collected >3 days after hospital admission). main outcome measures unadjusted incidence rates per 100 000 person-years of observation  the proportion of infections that was due to mrsa  and annual trends for 2005 through 2010 (examined using the spearman rank correlation test or the mantel-haenszel χ2 test for linear trend). results during 56 million person-years (nonactive duty: 47 million person-years; active duty: 9 million person-years)  there were 2643 blood and 80 281 wound or abscess annual first-positive s. aureus cultures. annual incidence rates varied from 3.6 to 6.0 per 100 000 person-years for s. aureus bacteremia and 122.7 to 168.9 per 100 000 person-years for s. aureus sstis. the annual incidence rates for community-onset mrsa bacteremia decreased from 1.7 per 100 000 person-years (95% ci  1.5-2.0 per 100 000 person-years) in 2005 to 1.2 per 100 000 person-years (95% ci  0.9-1.4 per 100 000 person-years) in 2010 (p = .005 for trend). the annual incidence rates for hospital-onset mrsa bacteremia also decreased from 0.7 per 100 000 person-years (95% ci  0.6-0.9 per 100 000 person-years) in 2005 to 0.4 per 100 000 person-years (95% ci  0.3-0.5 per 100 000 person-years) in 2010 (p = .005 for trend). concurrently  the proportion of community-onset ssti due to mrsa peaked at 62% in 2006 before decreasing annually to 52% in 2010 (p < .001 for trend). conclusion in the department of defense population consisting of men and women of all ages from across the united states  the rates of both community-onset and hospital-onset mrsa bacteremia decreased in parallel  while the proportion of community-onset sstis due to mrsa has more recently declined.
2380,aberrant expression of rcan1 in alzheimer’s pathogenesis: a new molecular mechanism and a novel drug target,ad  a devastating neurodegenerative disorder  is the most common cause of dementia in the elderly. patients with ad are characterized by three hallmarks of neuropathology including neuritic plaque deposition  neurofibrillary tangle formation  and neuronal loss. growing evidences indicate that dysregulation of regulator of calcineurin 1 (rcan1) plays an important role in the pathogenesis of ad. aberrant rcan1 expression facilitates neuronal apoptosis and tau hyperphosphorylation  leading to neuronal loss and neurofibrillary tangle formation. this review aims to describe the recent advances of the regulation of rcan1 expression and its physiological functions. moreover  the ad risk factors-induced rcan1 dysregulation and its role in promoting neuronal loss  synaptic impairments and neurofibrillary tangle formation are summarized. furthermore  we provide an outlook into the effects of rcan1 dysregulation on app processing  aβ generation and neuritic plaque formation  and the possible underlying mechanisms  as well as the potential of targeting rcan1 as a new therapeutic approach.
2382,telomere tethering at the nuclear periphery is essential for efficient dna double strand break repair in subtelomeric region,in the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae that lacks lamins  the nuclear pore complex (npc) has been proposed to serve a role in chromatin organization. here  using fluorescence microscopy in living cells  we show that nuclear pore proteins of the nup84 core complex  nup84p  nup145cp  nup120p  and nup133p  serve to anchor telomere xi-l at the nuclear periphery. the integrity of this complex is shown to be required for repression of a ura3 gene inserted in the subtelomeric region of this chromosome end. furthermore  altering the integrity of this complex decreases the efficiency of repair of a dna double-strand break (dsb) only when it is generated in the subtelomeric region  even though the repair machinery is functional. these effects are specific to the nup84 complex. our observations thus confirm and extend the role played by the npc  through the nup84 complex  in the functional organization of chromatin. they also indicate that anchoring of telomeres is essential for efficient repair of dsbs occurring therein and is important for preserving genome integrity.
2384,tyrosine-phosphorylated caveolin-1 blocks bacterial uptake by inducing vav2-rhoa-mediated cytoskeletal rearrangements,certain bacterial adhesins appear to promote a pathogen's extracellular lifestyle rather than its entry into host cells. however  little is known about the stimuli elicited upon such pathogen host-cell interactions. here  we report that type iv pili (tfp)-producing neisseria gonorrhoeae (p(+)gc) induces an immediate recruitment of caveolin-1 (cav1) in the host cell  which subsequently prevents bacterial internalization by triggering cytoskeletal rearrangements via downstream phosphotyrosine signaling. a broad and unbiased analysis of potential interaction partners for tyrosine-phosphorylated cav1 revealed a direct interaction with the rho-family guanine nucleotide exchange factor vav2. both vav2 and its substrate  the small gtpase rhoa  were found to play a direct role in the cav1-mediated prevention of bacterial uptake. our findings  which have been extended to enteropathogenic escherichia coli  highlight how tfp-producing bacteria avoid host cell uptake. further  our data establish a mechanistic link between cav1 phosphorylation and pathogen-induced cytoskeleton reorganization and advance our understanding of caveolin function.
2386,cancer inhibition through circadian reprogramming of tumor transcriptome with meal timing.,circadian disruption accelerates cancer progression  whereas circadian reinforcement could halt it. mice with p03 pancreatic adenocarcinoma (n = 77) were synchronized and fed ad libitum (al) or with meal timing (mt) from zeitgeber time (zt) 2 to zt6 with normal or fat diet. tumor gene expression profiling was determined with dna microarrays at endogenous circadian time (ct) 4 and ct16. circadian mrna expression patterns were determined for clock genes rev-erbalpha  per2  and bmal1  cellular stress genes hspa8 and cirbp  and cyclin a2 gene ccna2 in liver and tumor. the 24-hour patterns in telemetered rest-activity and body temperature and plasma corticosterone and insulin-like growth factor-i (igf-i) were assessed. we showed that mt inhibited cancer growth by approximately 40% as compared with al (p = 0.011) irrespective of calorie intake. clock gene transcription remained arrhythmic in tumors irrespective of feeding schedule or diet. yet  mt upregulated or downregulated the expression of 423 tumor genes  according to ct. moreover  36 genes involved in cellular stress  cell cycle  and metabolism were upregulated at one ct and downregulated 12 h apart. mt induced >10-fold circadian expression of hspa8  cirbp  and ccna2 in tumors. corticosterone or igf-i patterns played no role in tumor growth inhibition. in contrast  mt consistently doubled the circadian amplitude of body temperature. peak and trough respectively corresponded to peak expressions of hspa8 and cirbp in tumors. the reinforcement of the host circadian timing system with mt induced 24-hour rhythmic expression of critical genes in clock-deficient tumors  which translated into cancer growth inhibition. targeting circadian clocks represents a novel potential challenge for cancer therapeutics.
2388,age-associated sperm dna methylation alterations: possible implications in offspring disease susceptibility,recent evidence demonstrates a role for paternal aging on offspring disease susceptibility. it is well established that various neuropsychiatric disorders (schizophrenia  autism  etc.)  trinucleotide expansion associated diseases (myotonic dystrophy  huntington's  etc.) and even some forms of cancer have increased incidence in the offspring of older fathers. despite strong epidemiological evidence that these alterations are more common in offspring sired by older fathers  in most cases the mechanisms that drive these processes are unclear. however  it is commonly believed that epigenetics  and specifically dna methylation alterations  likely play a role. in this study we have investigated the impact of aging on dna methylation in mature human sperm. using a methylation array approach we evaluated changes to sperm dna methylation patterns in 17 fertile donors by comparing the sperm methylome of 2 samples collected from each individual 9-19 years apart. with this design we have identified 139 regions that are significantly and consistently hypomethylated with age and 8 regions that are significantly hypermethylated with age. a representative subset of these alterations have been confirmed in an independent cohort. a total of 117 genes are associated with these regions of methylation alterations (promoter or gene body). intriguingly  a portion of the age-related changes in sperm dna methylation are located at genes previously associated with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. while our data does not establish a causative relationship  it does raise the possibility that the age-associated methylation of the candidate genes that we observe in sperm might contribute to the increased incidence of neuropsychiatric and other disorders in the offspring of older males. however  further study is required to determine whether  and to what extent  a causative relationship exists.
2390,phase ii study of panobinostat in combination with bevacizumab for recurrent glioblastoma and anaplastic glioma.,background panobinostat is a histone deacetylase inhibitor with antineoplastic and antiangiogenic effects in glioma that may work synergistically with bevacizumab. we conducted a multicenter phase ii trial of panobinostat combined with bevacizumab in patients with recurrent high-grade glioma (hgg). methods patients with recurrent hgg were treated with oral panobinostat 30 mg 3 times per week  every other week  in combination with bevacizumab 10 mg/kg every other week. the primary endpoint was a 6-month progression-fee survival (pfs6) rate for participants with recurrent glioblastoma (gbm). patients with recurrent anaplastic glioma (ag) were evaluated as an exploratory arm of the study. results at interim analysis  the gbm arm did not meet criteria for continued accrual  and the gbm arm was closed. a total of 24 patients with gbm were accrued prior to closure. the pfs6 rate was 30.4% (95%  ci 12.4%-50.7%)  median pfs was 5 months (range  3-9 months)  and median overall survival (os) was 9 months (range  6-19 months). accrual in the ag arm continued to completion  and a total of 15 patients were enrolled. the pfs6 rate was 46.7% (range  21%-73%)  median pfs was 7 months (range  2-10 months)  and median os was 17 months (range  5 months-27 months). conclusions this phase ii study of panobinostat and bevacizumab in participants with recurrent gbm did not meet criteria for continued accrual  and the gbm cohort of the study was closed. although it was reasonably well tolerated  the addition of panobinostat to bevacizumab did not significantly improve pfs6 compared with historical controls of bevacizumab monotherapy in either cohort.
2392,the spemann organizer signal noggin binds and inactivates bone morphogenetic protein 4,signals released by the spemann organizer of the amphibian gastrula can directly induce neural tissue from ectoderm and can dorsalize ventral mesoderm to form muscle. the secreted polypeptide noggin mimics these activities and is expressed at the appropriate time and place to participate in the organizer signal. neural induction and mesoderm dorsalization are antagonized by bone morphogenetic proteins (bmps)  which induce epidermis and ventral mesoderm instead. here we report that noggin protein binds bmp4 with high affinity and can abolish bmp4 activity by blocking binding to cognate cell-surface receptors. these data suggest that noggin secreted by the organizer patterns the embryo by interrupting bmp signaling.
2394,physician emigration from sub-saharan africa to the united states: analysis of the 2011 ama physician masterfile,background the large-scale emigration of physicians from sub-saharan africa (ssa) to high-income nations is a serious development concern. our objective was to determine current emigration trends of ssa physicians found in the physician workforce of the united states. methods and findings we analyzed physician data from the world health organization (who) global health workforce statistics along with graduation and residency data from the 2011 american medical association physician masterfile (ama-pm) on physicians trained or born in ssa countries who currently practice in the us. we estimated emigration proportions  year of us entry  years of practice before emigration  and length of time in the us. according to the 2011 ama-pm  10 819 physicians were born or trained in 28 ssa countries. sixty-eight percent (n = 7 370) were ssa-trained  20% (n = 2 126) were us-trained  and 12% (n = 1 323) were trained outside both ssa and the us. we estimated active physicians (age ≤ 70 years) to represent 96% (n = 10 377) of the total. migration trends among ssa-trained physicians increased from 2002 to 2011 for all but one principal source country; the exception was south africa whose physician migration to the us decreased by 8% (-156). the increase in last-decade migration was >50% in nigeria (+1 113) and ghana (+243)  >100% in ethiopia (+274)  and >200% (+244) in sudan. liberia was the most affected by migration to the us with 77% (n = 175) of its estimated physicians in the 2011 ama-pm. on average  ssa-trained physicians have been in the us for 18 years. they practiced for 6.5 years before us entry  and nearly half emigrated during the implementation years (1984-1999) of the structural adjustment programs. conclusion physician emigration from ssa to the us is increasing for most ssa source countries. unless far-reaching policies are implemented by the us and ssa countries  the current emigration trends will persist  and the us will remain a leading destination for ssa physicians emigrating from the continent of greatest need. please see later in the article for the editors' summary.
2396,comprehensive identification and annotation of cell type-specific and ubiquitous ctcf-binding sites in the human genome,chromatin insulators are dna elements that regulate the level of gene expression either by preventing gene silencing through the maintenance of heterochromatin boundaries or by preventing gene activation by blocking interactions between enhancers and promoters. ccctc-binding factor (ctcf)  a ubiquitously expressed 11-zinc-finger dna-binding protein  is the only protein implicated in the establishment of insulators in vertebrates. while ctcf has been implicated in diverse regulatory functions  ctcf has only been studied in a limited number of cell types across human genome. thus  it is not clear whether the identified cell type-specific differences in ctcf-binding sites are functionally significant. here  we identify and characterize cell type-specific and ubiquitous ctcf-binding sites in the human genome across 38 cell types designated by the encyclopedia of dna elements (encode) consortium. these cell type-specific and ubiquitous ctcf-binding sites show uniquely versatile transcriptional functions and characteristic chromatin features. in addition  we confirm the insulator barrier function of ctcf-binding and explore the novel function of ctcf in dna replication. these results represent a critical step toward the comprehensive and systematic understanding of ctcf-dependent insulators and their versatile roles in the human genome.
2398,reconstruction of the yeast snf1 kinase regulatory network reveals its role as a global energy regulator,highly conserved among eukaryotic cells  the amp-activated kinase (ampk) is a central regulator of carbon metabolism. to map the complete network of interactions around ampk in yeast (snf1) and to evaluate the role of its regulatory subunit snf4  we measured global mrna  protein and metabolite levels in wild type  deltasnf1  deltasnf4  and deltasnf1deltasnf4 knockout strains. using four newly developed computational tools  including novel dogma sub-network analysis  we showed the benefits of three-level ome-data integration to uncover the global snf1 kinase role in yeast. we for the first time identified snf1's global regulation on gene and protein expression levels  and showed that yeast snf1 has a far more extensive function in controlling energy metabolism than reported earlier. additionally  we identified complementary roles of snf1 and snf4. similar to the function of ampk in humans  our findings showed that snf1 is a low-energy checkpoint and that yeast can be used more extensively as a model system for studying the molecular mechanisms underlying the global regulation of ampk in mammals  failure of which leads to metabolic diseases.
2400,asymmetric cell divisions sustain long-term  hematopoiesis from single-sorted human fetal liver cells ,hematopoietic stem cells (hscs) in adult marrow are believed to be derived from fetal liver precursors. to study cell kinetics involved in long-term hematopoiesis  we studied single-sorted candidate hscs from fetal liver that were cultured in the presence of a mixture of stimulatory cytokines. after 8–10 d  the number of cells in primary cultures varied from 10 000 cells. single cells in slow growing colonies were recloned upon reaching a 100–200 cell stage. strikingly  the number of cells in subclones varied widely again. these results are indicative of asymmetric divisions in primitive hematopoietic cells in which proliferative potential and cell cycle properties are unevenly distributed among daughter cells. the continuous generation of functional heterogeneity among the clonal progeny of hscs is in support of intrinsic control of stem cell fate and provides a model for the long-term maintenance of hematopoiesis in vitro and in vivo.
2402,stroke and migraine--the spectrum of cause and effect.,the relationship of migraine and stroke is complex. stroke may be coincidental with migraine but migraine may confer an increased risk of stroke in women under 45 years of age and possibly in men who have migraine with aura. stroke may mimic migraine but migraine syndromes may be symptomatic of underlying cerebrovascular disorders. true migraine-induced stroke is rare. the mechanisms of stroke induced during a migraine attack remain to be determined but probably involve an interaction between the dynamic shifts in cerebral blood flow and stroke risk factors.
2404,differences in the clinical effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers: a critical review of the evidence,the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system plays a major role in the pathophysiology of hypertension and closely related cardio- and cerebrovascular events. although both angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) inhibitors and angiotensin receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers; arbs) are equally important in the treatment of hypertension  according to the results of recent years  there might be substantial differences in their cardiovascular protective effects  and these differences might be explained by our increasing knowledge of their non-overlapping mechanisms of action. the number of studies investigating how ace inhibitors and arb agents differ will certainly be increasing in the future. ace inhibitors are the safe therapeutic opportunity for hypertensive patients at high risk  with a cardiological comorbidity.
2406,tricyclic antidepressants and headaches: systematic review and meta-analysis,objective to evaluate the efficacy and relative adverse effects of tricyclic antidepressants in the treatment of migraine  tension-type  and mixed headaches. design meta-analysis. data sources medline  embase  the cochrane trials registry  and psyclit. studies reviewed randomised trials of adults receiving tricyclics as only treatment for a minimum of four weeks. data extraction frequency of headaches (number of headache attacks for migraine and number of days with headache for tension-type headaches)  intensity of headache  and headache index. results 37 studies met the inclusion criteria. tricyclics significantly reduced the number of days with tension-type headache and number of headache attacks from migraine than placebo (average standardised mean difference -1.29  95% confidence interval -2.18 to -0.39 and -0.70  -0.93 to -0.48) but not compared with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (-0.80  -2.63 to 0.02 and -0.20  -0.60 to 0.19). the effect of tricyclics increased with longer duration of treatment (β=-0.11  95% confidence interval -0.63 to -0.15; p<0.0005). tricyclics were also more likely to reduce the intensity of headaches by at least 50% than either placebo (tension-type: relative risk 1.41  95% confidence interval 1.02 to 1.89; migraine: 1.80  1.24 to 2.62) or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (1.73  1.34 to 2.22 and 1.72  1.15 to 2.55). tricyclics were more likely to cause adverse effects than placebo (1.53  95% confidence interval 1.11 to 2.12) and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (2.22  1.52 to 3.32)  including dry mouth (p<0.0005 for both)  drowsiness (p<0.0005 for both)  and weight gain (p<0.001 for both)  but did not increase dropout rates (placebo: 1.22  0.83 to 1.80  selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors: 1.16  0.81 to 2.97). conclusions tricyclic antidepressants are effective in preventing migraine and tension-type headaches and are more effective than selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors  although with greater adverse effects. the effectiveness of tricyclics seems to increase over time.
2408,nuclear factor-�b affects tumor progression in a mouse model of malignant pleural effusion,we developed a novel mouse model of malignant pleural effusion (mpe) by injecting lewis lung cancer (llc) cells directly into the pleural space of syngeneic c57b/6 mice. the pleural effusions in this model share common cellular and biochemical features with human mpes. implantation and growth of pleural tumors triggers a host inflammatory response characterized by a mixed inflammatory cell influx into the pleural fluid. llc cells exhibited high basal nuclear factor (nf)-κb activity in vitro and in vivo  which we used to drive expression of a nf-κb–dependent green fluorescent protein-firefly luciferase fusion reporter construct. nf-κb–dependent reporter expression allowed intravital tracing of pleural tumors. inhibition of nf-κb in llc cells did not affect cell viability in culture; however  injection of llc cells expressing a dominant nf-κb inhibitor resulted in decreased tumor burden  decreased pleural effusion volume  and decreased pleural effusion tnf-α levels. these studies indicate that tumor nf-κb a...
2410,histone levels are regulated by phosphorylation and ubiquitylation dependent proteolysis,histone levels are tightly regulated to prevent harmful effects such as genomic instability and hypersensitivity to dna-damaging agents due to the accumulation of these highly basic proteins when dna replication slows down or stops. although chromosomal histones are stable  excess (non-chromatin bound) histones are rapidly degraded in a rad53 (radiation sensitive 53) kinase-dependent manner in saccharomyces cerevisiae. here we demonstrate that excess histones associate with rad53 in vivo and seem to undergo modifications such as tyrosine phosphorylation and polyubiquitylation  before their proteolysis by the proteasome. we have identified the tyr 99 residue of histone h3 as being critical for the efficient ubiquitylation and degradation of this histone. we have also identified the ubiquitin conjugating enzymes (e2) ubc4 and ubc5  as well as the ubiquitin ligase (e3) tom1 (temperature dependent organization in mitotic nucleus 1)  as enzymes involved in the ubiquitylation of excess histones. regulated histone proteolysis has major implications for the maintenance of epigenetic marks on chromatin  genomic stability and the packaging of sperm dna.
2412,successful expansion of functional and stable regulatory t cells for immunotherapy in liver transplantation,strategies to prevent organ transplant rejection whilst minimizing long-term immunosuppression are currently under intense investigation with regulatory t cells (tregs) nearing clinical application. the clinical trial  thril  recently commenced at king's college london  proposes to use treg cell therapy to induce tolerance in liver transplant recipients  the success of which has the potential to revolutionize the management of these patients and enable a future of drug-free transplants. this is the first report of the manufacture of clinical grade tregs from prospective liver transplant recipients via a clinimacs-based gmp isolation technique and expanded using anti-cd3/cd28 beads  il-2 and rapamycin. we report the enrichment of a pure  stable population of tregs (>95% cd4(+)cd25(+)foxp3(+))  reaching adequate numbers for their clinical application. our protocol proved successful in  influencing the expansion of superior functional tregs  as compared to freshly isolated cells  whilst also preventing their conversion to th17 cells under pro-inflammatory conditions. we conclude with the manufacture of the final treg product in the clinical research facility (crf)  a prerequisite for the clinical application of these cells. the data presented in this manuscript together with the much-anticipated clinical results from thril  will undoubtedly inform the improved management of the liver transplant recipient.
2414,cd8 cells of patients with diffuse cutaneous leishmaniasis display functional exhaustion: the latter is reversed  in vitro  by tlr2 agonists,leishmania mexicana (lm) causes localized (lcl) and diffuse (dcl) cutaneous leishmaniasis. dcl patients have a poor cellular immune response leading to chronicity. it has been proposed that cd8 t lymphocytes (cd8) play a crucial role in infection clearance  although the role of cd8 cytotoxicity in disease control has not been elucidated. lesions of dcl patients have been shown to harbor low numbers of cd8  as compared to patients with lcl  and leishmanicidal treatment restores cd8 numbers. the marked response of cd8 towards leishmania parasites led us to analyze possible functional differences between cd8 from patients with lcl and dcl. we compared ifnγ production  antigen-specific proliferation  and cytotoxicity of cd8 purified from pbmc against autologous macrophages (mo) infected with leishmania mexicana (moi). additionally  we analyzed tissue biopsies from both groups of patients for evidence of cytotoxicity associated with apoptotic cells in the lesions. we found that cd8 cell of dcl patients exhibited low cytotoxicity  low antigen-specific proliferation and low ifnγ production when stimulated with moi  as compared to lcl patients. additionally  dcl patients had significantly less tunel+ cells in their lesions. these characteristics are similar to cellular "exhaustion" described in chronic infections. we intended to restore the functional capacity of cd8 cells of dcl patients by preincubating them with tlr2 agonists: lm lipophosphoglycan (lpg) or pam3cys. cytotoxicity against moi  antigen-specific proliferation and ifnγ production were restored with both stimuli  whereas pd-1 (a molecule associated with cellular exhaustion) expression  was reduced. our work suggests that cd8 response is associated with control of lm infection in lcl patients and that chronic infection in dcl patients leads to a state of cd8 functional exhaustion  which could facilitate disease spread. this is the first report that shows the presence of functionally exhausted cd8 t lymphocytes in dcl patients and  additionally  that pre-stimulation with tlr2 ligands can restore the effector mechanisms of cd8 t lymphocytes from dcl patients against leishmania mexicana-infected macrophages.
2416,idh1 mutations alter citric acid cycle metabolism and increase dependence on oxidative mitochondrial metabolism.,oncogenic mutations in isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 and 2 (idh1/2) occur in several types of cancer  but the metabolic consequences of these genetic changes are not fully understood. in this study  we performed (13)c metabolic flux analysis on a panel of isogenic cell lines containing heterozygous idh1/2 mutations. we observed that under hypoxic conditions  idh1-mutant cells exhibited increased oxidative tricarboxylic acid metabolism along with decreased reductive glutamine metabolism  but not idh2-mutant cells. however  selective inhibition of mutant idh1 enzyme function could not reverse the defect in reductive carboxylation activity. furthermore  this metabolic reprogramming increased the sensitivity of idh1-mutant cells to hypoxia or electron transport chain inhibition in vitro. lastly  idh1-mutant cells also grew poorly as subcutaneous xenografts within a hypoxic in vivo microenvironment. together  our results suggest therapeutic opportunities to exploit the metabolic vulnerabilities specific to idh1 mutation.
2418,combination of platelet count and mean platelet volume (cop-mpv) predicts postoperative prognosis in both resectable early and advanced stage esophageal squamous cell cancer patients,the aim of this study is to search the most powerful prognostic factor from routine blood test for esophageal squamous cell cancer (escc) patients. multiple laboratory tests were evaluated including those reflecting red blood cell parameters (hemoglobin (hb)  mean corpuscular volume (mcv)  mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration (mchc)  and red blood cell distribution width (rdw))  platelet morphological parameters (mean platelet volume (mpv) and platelet count (plt))  blood coagulation status (d-dimer)  and tumor biomarker (ca19-9). known inflammatory indices (nlr and plr) were also calculated. a total of 468 patients who were diagnosed with escc between december 2005 and december 2008 were retrospectively analyzed in this study. by utilizing univariate and multivariate cox proportional hazard analyses  we found that plt and mpv were significantly associated with overall survival (os) and disease-free survival (dfs) of escc patients  with optimal cutoff values of 212 and 10.6  respectively. moreover  the combination of the preoperative plt and mpv (cop-mpv) was calculated as follows: patients with both plt (≥212 × 10(9) l(-1)) and mpv (≥10.6 fl) elevation were assigned a score of 2  and patients with one or neither were assigned a score of 1 and 0. the cop-mpv was an independent prognostic factor for os (hazard ratio (hr) 0.378  95 % confidence interval (ci) 0.241 to 0.593  p < 0.001  0/2) and dfs (hr 0.341  95 % ci 0.218 to 0.534  p < 0.001  0/2) in multivariate analyses. in subgroup analyses for early (stages i and ii) and locally (stage iii) advanced stage patients  cop-mpv was found significantly associated with os and dfs in each group (p = 0.025 and p = 0.018 for os and p = 0.029 and p = 0.002 for dfs). in conclusion  we considered that cop-mpv is a promising predictor for postoperative survival in escc patients.
2420,regulation of immune responses by extracellular vesicles,extracellular vesicles  including exosomes  are small membrane vesicles derived from multivesicular bodies or from the plasma membrane. most  if not all  cell types release extracellular vesicles  which then enter the bodily fluids. these vesicles contain a subset of proteins  lipids and nucleic acids that are derived from the parent cell. it is thought that extracellular vesicles have important roles in intercellular communication  both locally and systemically  as they transfer their contents  including proteins  lipids and rnas  between cells. extracellular vesicles are involved in numerous physiological processes  and vesicles from both non-immune and immune cells have important roles in immune regulation. moreover  extracellular vesicle-based therapeutics are being developed and clinically tested for the treatment of inflammatory diseases  autoimmune disorders and cancer. given the tremendous therapeutic potential of extracellular vesicles  this review focuses on their role in modulating immune responses  as well as their potential therapeutic applications.
2422,gamma-secretase represents a therapeutic target for the treatment of invasive glioma mediated by the p75 neurotrophin receptor,the multifunctional signaling protein p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75(ntr)) is a central regulator and major contributor to the highly invasive nature of malignant gliomas. here  we show that neurotrophin-dependent regulated intramembrane proteolysis (rip) of p75(ntr) is required for p75(ntr)-mediated glioma invasion  and identify a previously unnamed process for targeted glioma therapy. expression of cleavage-resistant chimeras of p75(ntr) or treatment of animals bearing p75(ntr)-positive intracranial tumors with clinically applicable gamma-secretase inhibitors resulted in dramatically decreased glioma invasion and prolonged survival. importantly  proteolytic processing of p75(ntr) was observed in p75(ntr)-positive patient tumor specimens and brain tumor initiating cells. this work highlights the importance of p75(ntr) as a therapeutic target  suggesting that gamma-secretase inhibitors may have direct clinical application for the treatment of malignant glioma.
2424,corresponding author:,over the years  methods of cytogenetic analysis evolved and became part of routine laboratory testing  providing valuable diagnostic and prognostic information in hematologic disorders. karyotypic aberrations contribute to the understanding of the molecular pathogenesis of disease and thereby to rational application of therapeutic modalities. most of the progress in this field stems from the application of metaphase cytogenetics (mc)  but recently  novel molecular technologies have been introduced that complement mc and overcome many of the limitations of traditional cytogenetics  including a need for cell culture. whole genome scanning using comparative genomic hybridization and single nucleotide polymorphism arrays (cgh-a; snp-a) can be used for analysis of somatic or clonal unbalanced chromosomal defects. in snp-a  the combination of copy number detection and genotyping enables diagnosis of copy-neutral loss of heterozygosity  a lesion that cannot be detected using mc but may have important pathogenetic implications. overall  whole genome scanning arrays  despite the drawback of an inability to detect balanced translocations  allow for discovery of chromosomal defects in a higher proportion of patients with hematologic malignancies. newly detected chromosomal aberrations  including somatic uniparental disomy  may lead to more precise prognostic schemes in many diseases.
2426,decoding of cytoplasmic ca2+ oscillations through the spatial signature drives gene expression,cytoplasmic ca(2+) oscillations are a universal signaling mode that activates numerous cellular responses [1  2]. oscillations are considered the physiological mechanism of ca(2+) signaling because they occur at low levels of stimulus intensity [3]. ca(2+) oscillations are proposed to convey information in their amplitude and frequency  leading to activation of specific downstream targets [4-6]. here  we report that the spatial ca(2+) gradient within the oscillation is key. ca(2+) oscillations in mast cells evoked over a range of agonist concentrations in the presence of external ca(2+) were indistinguishable from those in the absence of ca(2+) when plasmalemmal ca(2+) extrusion was suppressed. nevertheless  only oscillations with accompanying ca(2+) entry through store-operated crac channels triggered gene expression. increased cytoplasmic ca(2+) buffering prevented oscillations but not gene activation. local ca(2+) influx and not global ca(2+) oscillations therefore drives gene expression at physiological levels of stimulation. rather than serving to maintain ca(2+) oscillations by replenishing stores  we suggest that the role of oscillations might be to activate crac channels  thereby ensuring the generation of spatially restricted physiological ca(2+) signals driving gene activation. furthermore  we show that the spatial profile of a ca(2+) oscillation provides a novel mechanism whereby a pleiotropic messenger specifically activates gene expression.
2428,adult cervicocerebral artery dissection: a single-center study of 301 finnish patients.,background and purpose there are only few small studies assessing potential risk factors  comorbidity  and prognostic factors in adult spontaneous cervicocerebral artery dissection (cad). methods we conducted a retrospective  hospital-based analysis on the prognostic factors and association of cad with vascular risk factors in 301 consecutive finnish patients  diagnosed from 1994 to 2007. results two thirds of the patients were men (68%). women were younger than men. migraine (36% of all patients)  especially with visual aura (63% of all migraineurs)  and smoking were more common in patients with cad compared with the general finnish population. at 3 months  247 (83%) patients reached a favorable outcome. occlusion of the dissected artery  internal carotid artery dissection (icad)  and recent infection in infarction patients were associated with a poorer outcome. icad patients had less often brain infarction  but the strokes they had were more severe. seven (2.3%) patients died during the follow-up (mean 4.0 years  1186 patient years). six (2%) patients had verified cad recurrence. conclusions this study provides evidence for the association of cad with male sex  and possible association with smoking and migraine. occlusion of the dissected artery  icad  and infection appear to be associated with poorer outcome.
2430,structure and function of the blood–brain barrier,neural signalling within the central nervous system (cns) requires a highly controlled microenvironment. cells at three key interfaces form barriers between the blood and the cns: the blood-brain barrier (bbb)  blood-csf barrier and the arachnoid barrier. the bbb at the level of brain microvessel endothelium is the major site of blood-cns exchange. the structure and function of the bbb is summarised  the physical barrier formed by the endothelial tight junctions  and the transport barrier resulting from membrane transporters and vesicular mechanisms. the roles of associated cells are outlined  especially the endfeet of astrocytic glial cells  and pericytes and microglia. the embryonic development of the bbb  and changes in pathology are described. the bbb is subject to short and long-term regulation  which may be disturbed in pathology. any programme for drug discovery or delivery  to target or avoid the cns  needs to consider the special features of the bbb.
2432,extracellular vesicles derived from renal cancer stem cells induce a pro-tumorigenic phenotype in mesenchymal stromal cells,renal carcinomas have been shown to contain a population of cancer stem cells (cscs) that present self-renewing capacity and support tumor growth and metastasis. cscs were shown to secrete large amount of extracellular vesicles (evs) that can transfer several molecules (proteins  lipids and nucleic acids) and induce epigenetic changes in target cells. mesenchymal stromal cells (mscs) are susceptible to tumor signalling and can be recruited to tumor regions. the precise role of mscs in tumor development is still under debate since both pro- and anti-tumorigenic effects have been reported. in this study we analysed the participation of renal csc-derived evs in the interaction between tumor and mscs. we found that csc-derived evs promoted persistent phenotypical changes in mscs characterized by an increased expression of genes associated with cell migration (cxcr4  cxcr7)  matrix remodeling (col4a3)  angiogenesis and tumor growth (il-8  osteopontin and myeloperoxidase). ev-stimulated mscs exhibited in vitro an enhancement of migration toward the tumor conditioned medium. moreover  ev-stimulated mscs enhanced migration of renal tumor cells and induced vessel-like formation. in vivo  ev-stimulated mscs supported tumor development and vascularization  when co-injected with renal tumor cells. in conclusion  csc-derived evs induced phenotypical changes in mscs that are associated with tumor growth.
2434,noncoding transcription by rna polymerase pol ivb/pol v mediates transcriptional silencing of overlapping and adjacent genes,nuclear transcription is not restricted to genes but occurs throughout the intergenic and noncoding space of eukaryotic genomes. the functional significance of this widespread noncoding transcription is mostly unknown. we show that arabidopsis rna polymerase ivb/pol v  a multisubunit nuclear enzyme required for sirna-mediated gene silencing of transposons and other repeats  transcribes intergenic and noncoding sequences  thereby facilitating heterochromatin formation and silencing of overlapping and adjacent genes. pol ivb/pol v transcription requires the chromatin-remodeling protein drd1 but is independent of sirna biogenesis. however  pol ivb/pol v transcription and sirna production are both required to silence transposons  suggesting that pol ivb/pol v generates rnas or chromatin structures that serve as scaffolds for sirna-mediated heterochromatin-forming complexes. pol ivb/pol v function provides a solution to a paradox of epigenetic control: the need for transcription in order to transcriptionally silence the same region.
2436,hepatotoxicity associated with antiretroviral therapy in adults infected with human immunodeficiency virus and the role of hepatitis c or b virus infection.,context use of antiretroviral drugs  including protease inhibitors  for treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection has been anecdotally associated with hepatotoxicity  particularly in persons coinfected with hepatitis c or b virus. objectives to ascertain if incidence of severe hepatotoxicity during antiretroviral therapy is similar for all antiretroviral drug combinations  and to define the role of chronic viral hepatitis in its development. design prospective cohort study. setting university-based urban hiv clinic. patients a total of 298 patients who were prescribed new antiretroviral therapies between january 1996 and january 1998  211 (71%) of whom received protease inhibitors as part of combination therapy (median follow-up  182 days) and 87 (29%) of whom received dual nucleoside analog regimens (median follow-up  167 days). chronic hepatitis c and b virus infection was present in 154 (52%) and 8 (2.7%) patients  respectively. main outcome measure severe hepatotoxicity  defined as a grade 3 or 4 change in levels of serum alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase  evaluated before and during therapy. results severe hepatotoxicity was observed in 31 (10.4%) of 298 patients (95% confidence interval [ci]  7.2%-14.4%). ritonavir use was associated with a higher incidence of toxicity (30%; 95% ci  17.9% -44.6%). however  no significant difference was detected in hepatotoxicity incidence in other treatment groups  ie  nucleoside analogs (5.7%; 95% ci  1.2%-12.9%)  nelfinavir (5.9%; 95% ci  1.2%-16.2%)  saquinavir (5.9%; 95% ci  0.15%-28.7%)  and indinavir(6.8%; 95% ci  3.0%-13.1 %). although chronicviral hepatitis was associated with an increased risk of severe hepatotoxicity among patients prescribed nonritonavir regimens (relative risk  3.7; 95% ci  1.0-11.8)  most patients with chronic hepatitis c or b virus infection (88%) did not experience significant toxic effects. rate of severe toxicity with use of any protease inhibitor in patients with hepatitis c infection was 12.2% (13/107; 95% ci  6.6%-19.9%). in multivariate logistic regression  only ritonavir (adjusted odds ratio [aor]  8.6; 95% ci  3.0-24.6) and a cd4 cell count increase of more than 0.05 x 10(9)/l (aor  3.6; 95% ci  1.0-12.9) were associated with severe hepatotoxicity. no irreversible outcomes were seen in patients with severe hepatotoxicity. conclusions our data indicate that use of ritonavir may increase risk of severe hepatotoxicity. although hepatotoxicity may be more common in persons with chronic viral hepatitis  these data do not support withholding protease inhibitor therapy from persons coinfected with hepatitis b or c virus.
2438,changing mortality patterns in east and west germany and poland. ii: short-term trends during transition and in the 1990s.,objectives to examine trends in life expectancy at birth and age and cause specific patterns of mortality in the former german democratic republic (gdr) and poland during political transition and throughout the 1990s in both parts of germany and in poland. methods decomposition of life expectancy by age and cause of death. changes in life expectancy during transition by cause of death were examined using data for 1988/89 and 1990/91 for the former gdr and poland; examination of life expectancy changes after transition were based on 1992-97 data for germany and 1991-96 data for poland. results in both the former gdr and poland male life expectancy at birth declined by almost one year during transition  mainly attributable to rising death rates from external causes and circulatory diseases. female life expectancy in poland deteriorated by 0.3 years  largely attributable to increasing circulatory mortality among the old  while in east german female rising death rates in children and young adults were nearly outbalanced by declining circulatory mortality among those over 70. between 1991/92 and 1996/97  male life expectancy at birth increased by 2.4 years in the former gdr  1.2 years in old federal republic  and 2.0 years in poland (women: 2.3  0.9  and 1.2 years). in east germany and poland  the overall improvement was largely attributable to falling mortality among men aged 40-64  while those over 65 contributed the largest proportion to life expectancy gains in women. the change in deaths among men aged 15-39 accounted for 0.4 of a year to life expectancy at birth in east germany and poland  attributable largely to greater decreases from external causes. among those over 40  absolute contributions to changing life expectancy were greater in the former gdr than in the other two entities in both sexes  largely attributable to circulatory diseases. a persisting east-west life expectancy gap in germany of 2.1 years in men in 1997 was largely attributable to external causes  diseases of the digestive system and circulatory diseases. higher death rates from circulatory diseases among the elderly largely explain the female life expectancy gap of approximately one year. conclusions this study provides further insights into the health effects of political transition. post-transition improvements in life expectancy and mortality have been much steeper in east germany compared with poland. changes in dietary pattern and  in germany  medical care may have been important factors in shaping post-transition mortality trends.
2440,patent ductus arteriosus: lack of evidence for common treatments.,patent ductus arteriosus (pda) is a common diagnosis among extremely premature infants  especially in those with lung disease. treatments are often used to close the pda. despite nearly three decades of research  the question of whether the benefits of treatments to prevent ductal patency or promote closure outweigh the risks of these treatments remains unanswered. the authors rarely use treatments designed to close the pda. this article reviews three considerations in support of this restrained approach: rates of spontaneous closure of the ductus arteriosus; adverse effect of persistent ductal patency; and benefits and risks of treatments for closure.
2442,melatonin: a mitochondrial targeting molecule involving mitochondrial protection and dynamics,melatonin has been speculated to be mainly synthesized by mitochondria. this speculation is supported by the recent discovery that aralkylamine n-acetyltransferase/serotonin n-acetyltransferase (aanat/snat) is localized in mitochondria of oocytes and the isolated mitochondria generate melatonin. we have also speculated that melatonin is a mitochondria-targeted antioxidant. it accumulates in mitochondria with high concentration against a concentration gradient. this is probably achieved by an active transportation via mitochondrial melatonin transporter(s). melatonin protects mitochondria by scavenging reactive oxygen species (ros)  inhibiting the mitochondrial permeability transition pore (mptp)  and activating uncoupling proteins (ucps). thus  melatonin maintains the optimal mitochondrial membrane potential and preserves mitochondrial functions. in addition  mitochondrial biogenesis and dynamics is also regulated by melatonin. in most cases  melatonin reduces mitochondrial fission and elevates their fusion. mitochondrial dynamics exhibit an oscillatory pattern which matches the melatonin circadian secretory rhythm in pinealeocytes and probably in other cells. recently  melatonin has been found to promote mitophagy and improve homeostasis of mitochondria.
2444,bh3-only protein noxa is a mediator of hypoxic cell death induced by hypoxia-inducible factor 1α,hypoxia is a common cause of cell death and is implicated in many disease processes including stroke and chronic degenerative disorders. in response to hypoxia  cells express a variety of genes  which allow adaptation to altered metabolic demands  decreased oxygen demands  and the removal of irreversibly damaged cells. using polymerase chain reaction–based suppression subtractive hybridization to find genes that are differentially expressed in hypoxia  we identified the bh3-only bcl-2 family protein noxa. noxa is a candidate molecule mediating p53-induced apoptosis. we show that noxa promoter responds directly to hypoxia via hypoxia-inducible factor (hif)-1α. suppression of noxa expression by antisense oligonucleotides rescued cells from hypoxia-induced cell death and decreased infarction volumes in an animal model of ischemia. further  we show that reactive oxygen species and resultant cytochrome c release participate in noxa-mediated hypoxic cell death. altogether  our results show that noxa is induced by hif-1α and mediates hypoxic cell death.
2446,bcl2 regulation by the melanocyte master regulator mitf modulates lineage survival and melanoma cell viability,kit/scf signaling and mitf-dependent transcription are both essential for melanocyte development and pigmentation. to identify mitf-dependent kit transcriptional targets in primary melanocytes  microarray studies were undertaken. among identified targets was bcl2  whose germline deletion produces melanocyte loss and which exhibited phenotypic synergy with mitf in mice. bcl2's regulation by mitf was verified in melanocytes and melanoma cells and by chromatin immunoprecipitation of the bcl2 promoter. mitf also regulates bcl2 in osteoclasts  and both mitf(mi/mi) and bcl2(-/-) mice exhibit severe osteopetrosis. disruption of mitf in melanocytes or melanoma triggered profound apoptosis susceptible to rescue by bcl2 overexpression. clinically  primary human melanoma expression microarrays revealed tight nearest neighbor linkage for mitf and bcl2. this linkage helps explain the vital roles of both mitf and bcl2 in the melanocyte lineage and the well-known treatment resistance of melanoma.
2448,brown fat and browning for the treatment of obesity and related metabolic disorders,brown fat is a specialized fat depot that can increase energy expenditure and produce heat. after the recent discovery of the presence of active brown fat in human adults and novel transcription factors controlling brown adipocyte differentiation  the field of the study of brown fat has gained great interest and is rapidly growing. brown fat expansion and/or activation results in increased energy expenditure and a negative energy balance in mice and limits weight gain. brown fat is also able to utilize blood glucose and lipid and results in improved glucose metabolism and blood lipid independent of weight loss. prolonged cold exposure and beta adrenergic agonists can induce browning of white adipose tissue. the inducible brown adipocyte  beige adipocyte evolving by thermogenic activation of white adipose tissue have different origin and molecular signature from classical brown adipocytes but share the characteristics of high mitochondria content  ucp1 expression and thermogenic capacity when activated. increasing browning may also be an efficient way to increase whole brown fat activity. recent human studies have shown possibilities that findings in mice can be reproduced in human  making brown fat a good candidate organ to treat obesity and its related disorders.
2450,the dystonia-associated protein torsina modulates synaptic vesicle recycling.,the loss of a glutamic acid residue in the aaa-atpase (atpases associated with diverse cellular activities) torsina is responsible for most cases of early onset autosomal dominant primary dystonia. in this study  we found that snapin  which binds snap-25 (synaptosome-associated protein of 25 000 da) and enhances the association of the snare complex with synaptotagmin  is an interacting partner for both wild type and mutant torsina. snapin co-localized with endogenous torsina on dense core granules in pc12 cells and was recruited to perinuclear inclusions containing mutant deltae-torsina in neuroblastoma sh-sy5y cells. in view of these observations  synaptic vesicle recycling was analyzed using the lipophilic dye fm1-43 and an antibody directed against an intravesicular epitope of synaptotagmin i. we found that overexpression of wild type torsina negatively affects synaptic vesicle endocytosis. conversely  overexpression of deltae-torsina in neuroblastoma cells increases fm1-43 uptake. knockdown of snapin and/or torsina using small interfering rnas had a similar inhibitory effect on the exo-endocytic process. in addition  down-regulation of torsina causes the persistence of synaptotagmin i on the plasma membrane  which closely resembles the effect observed by the overexpression of the deltae-torsina mutant. altogether  these findings suggest that torsina plays a role together with snapin in regulated exocytosis and that deltae-torsina exerts its pathological effects through a loss of function mechanism. this may affect neuronal uptake of neurotransmitters  such as dopamine  playing a role in the development of dystonic movements.
2452,hierarchical phylogenetic models for analyzing multipartite sequence data.,debate exists over how to incorporate information from multipartite sequence data in phylogenetic analyses. strict combined-data approaches argue for concatenation of all partitions and estimation of one evolutionary history  maximizing the explanatory power of the data. consensus/independence approaches endorse a two-step procedure where partitions are analyzed independently and then a consensus is determined from the multiple results. mixtures across the model space of a strict combined-data approach and a priori independent parameters are popular methods to integrate these methods. we propose an alternative middle ground by constructing a bayesian hierarchical phylogenetic model. our hierarchical framework enables researchers to pool information across data partitions to improve estimate precision in individual partitions while permitting estimation and testing of tendencies in across-partition quantities. such across-partition quantities include the distribution from which individual topologies relating the sequences within a partition are drawn. we propose standard hierarchical priors on continuous evolutionary parameters across partitions  while the structure on topologies varies depending on the research problem. we illustrate our model with three examples. we first explore the evolutionary history of the guinea pig (cavia porcellus) using alignments of 13 mitochondrial genes. the hierarchical model returns substantially more precise continuous parameter estimates than an independent parameter approach without losing the salient features of the data. second  we analyze the frequency of horizontal gene transfer using 50 prokaryotic genes. we assume an unknown species-level topology and allow individual gene topologies to differ from this with a small estimable probability. simultaneously inferring the species and individual gene topologies returns a transfer frequency of 17%. we also examine hiv sequences longitudinally sampled from hiv+ patients. we ask whether posttreatment development of ccr5 coreceptor virus represents concerted evolution from middisease cxcr4 virus or reemergence of initial infecting ccr5 virus. the hierarchical model pools partitions from multiple unrelated patients by assuming that the topology for each patient is drawn from a multinomial distribution with unknown probabilities. preliminary results suggest evolution and not reemergence.
2454,synergistic mechanisms of dna demethylation during transition to ground-state pluripotency,pluripotent stem cells (pscs) occupy a spectrum of reversible molecular states ranging from a naive ground-state in 2i  to metastable embryonic stem cells (escs) in serum  to lineage-primed epiblast stem cells (episcs). to investigate the role of dna methylation (5mc) across distinct pluripotent states  we mapped genome-wide 5mc and 5-hydroxymethycytosine (5hmc) in multiple pscs. ground-state escs exhibit an altered distribution of 5mc and 5hmc at regulatory elements and dramatically lower absolute levels relative to escs in serum. by contrast  episcs exhibit increased promoter 5mc coupled with reduced 5hmc  which contributes to their developmental restriction. switch to 2i triggers rapid onset of both the ground-state gene expression program and global dna demethylation. mechanistically  repression of de novo methylases by prdm14 drives dna demethylation at slow kinetics  whereas tet1/tet2-mediated 5hmc conversion enhances both the rate and extent of hypomethylation. these processes thus act synergistically during transition to ground-state pluripotency to promote a robust hypomethylated state.
2456,identification of an allele of vam3/syp22 that confers a semi-dwarf phenotype in arabidopsis thaliana.,the short stem and midrib (ssm) mutants of arabidopsis thaliana show both semi-dwarf and wavy leaf phenotypes due to defects in the elongation of the stem internodes and leaves. moreover  these abnormalities cannot be recovered by exogenous phytohormones. ssm was originally identified as a single recessive mutant of the ecotype columbia (col-0)  but genetic crossing experiments have revealed that this mutant phenotype is restored by another gene that is functional in the ecotype landsberg erecta (ler) and not in col-0. map-based cloning of the gene that is defective in ssm mutants has uncovered a small deletion in the sixth intron of a gene encoding a syntaxin  vam3/syp22  which has been implicated in vesicle transport to the vacuole. this mutation appears to cause a peptide insertion in the deduced vam3/syp22 polypeptide sequence due to defective splicing of the shortened sixth intron. significantly  when compared with the wild-type ler genome  the wild-type col-0 genome has a single base pair deletion causing a frameshift mutation in syp23  a gene with the highest known homology to vam3/syp22. these findings suggest that vam3/syp22 and syp23 have overlapping functions and that the vesicle transport mediated by these syntaxins is important for shoot morphogenesis.
2458,upregulated pd-1 expression is associated with the development of systemic lupus erythematosus  but not the pd-1.1 allele of the pdcd1 gene,systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) is a multisystem autoimmune disease with complicated genetic inheritance. programmed death 1 (pd-1)  a negative t cell regulator to maintain peripheral tolerance  induces negative signals to t cells during interaction with its ligands and is therefore a candidate gene in the development of sle. in order to examine whether expression levels of pd-1 contribute to the pathogenesis of sle  30 patients with sle and 30 controls were recruited and their pd-1 expression levels in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (pbmcs) were measured via flow cytometry and quantitative real-time-reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (rt-pcr). also  whether pd-1 expression levels are associated with the variant of the snp rs36084323 and the sle disease activity index (sledai) was studied in this work. the pd-1 expression levels of sle patients were significantly increased compared with those of the healthy controls. the upregulated pd-1 expression levels in sle patients were greatly associated with sledai scores. no significant difference was found between pd-1 expression levels and snp rs36084323. the results suggest that increased expression of pd-1 may correlate with the pathogenesis of sle  upregulated pd-1 expression may be a biomarker for sle diagnosis  and pd-1 inhibitor may be useful to sle treatment.
2460,teratogen-induced oxidative stress targets glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase in the organogenesis stage mouse embryo,exposure during the organogenesis stage of the mouse embryo to the model teratogen  hydroxyurea (hu)  induces curly tail and limb malformations. oxidative stress contributes to the developmental toxicity of hu. reactive oxygen species (ros) interact with polyunsaturated bilipid membranes to form α β-unsaturated reactive aldehydes; 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (4-hne)  one of the most cytotoxic of these aldehydes  covalently adducts with proteins  lipids  and nucleic acids. the goal of the current study is to determine if hu exposure of cd1 mice on gestation day 9 generates region-specific 4-hne-protein adducts in the embryo and to identify the proteins targeted. the formation of 4-hne-protein adducts was elevated in the caudal region of control embryos; hu exposure further increased 4-hne-protein adduct formation in this area. interestingly  three of the 4-hne-modified proteins  glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (gapdh)  glutamate oxaloacetate transaminase 2  and aldolase 1  a isoform  are involved in energy metabolism. the formation of 4-hne-gapdh protein adducts reduced gapdh enzymatic activity by 20% and attenuated lactate production by 40%. furthermore  hu exposure induced the nuclear translocation of gapdh in the caudal region of exposed embryos; this nuclear translocation may be associated with the reactivation of oxidized proteins involved in dna repair  such as apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease-1  and the stimulation of e1a-associated p300 protein/creb-binding protein (p300/cbp) activity  initiating cell death in a p53-dependent pathway. we propose that gapdh is a redox-sensitive target in the embryo and may play a role in a stress response during development.
2462,fitting multilevel models in complex survey data with design weights: recommendations,background multilevel models (mlm) offer complex survey data analysts a unique approach to understanding individual and contextual determinants of public health. however  little summarized guidance exists with regard to fitting mlm in complex survey data with design weights. simulation work suggests that analysts should scale design weights using two methods and fit the mlm using unweighted and scaled-weighted data. this article examines the performance of scaled-weighted and unweighted analyses across a variety of mlm and software programs. methods using data from the 2005-2006 national survey of children with special health care needs (ns-cshcn: n = 40 723) that collected data from children clustered within states  i examine the performance of scaling methods across outcome type (categorical vs. continuous)  model type (level-1  level-2  or combined)  and software (mplus  mlwin  and gllamm). results scaled weighted estimates and standard errors differed slightly from unweighted analyses  agreeing more with each other than with unweighted analyses. however  observed differences were minimal and did not lead to different inferential conclusions. likewise  results demonstrated minimal differences across software programs  increasing confidence in results and inferential conclusions independent of software choice. conclusion if including design weights in mlm  analysts should scale the weights and use software that properly includes the scaled weights in the estimation.
2464,a comparison of cost effectiveness using data from randomized trials or actual clinical practice: selective cox-2 inhibitors as an example,background data on absolute risks of outcomes and patterns of drug use in cost-effectiveness analyses are often based on randomised clinical trials (rcts). the objective of this study was to evaluate the external validity of published cost-effectiveness studies by comparing the data used in these studies (typically based on rcts) to observational data from actual clinical practice. selective cox-2 inhibitors (coxibs) were used as an example. methods and findings the uk general practice research database (gprd) was used to estimate the exposure characteristics and individual probabilities of upper gastrointestinal (gi) events during current exposure to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) or coxibs. a basic cost-effectiveness model was developed evaluating two alternative strategies: prescription of a conventional nsaid or coxib. outcomes included upper gi events as recorded in gprd and hospitalisation for upper gi events recorded in the national registry of hospitalisations (hospital episode statistics) linked to gprd. prescription costs were based on the prescribed number of tables as recorded in gprd and the 2006 cost data from the british national formulary. the study population included over 1 million patients prescribed conventional nsaids or coxibs. only a minority of patients used the drugs long-term and daily (34.5% of conventional nsaids and 44.2% of coxibs)  whereas coxib rcts required daily use for at least 6-9 months. the mean cost of preventing one upper gi event as recorded in gprd was us$104k (ranging from us$64k with long-term daily use to us$182k with intermittent use) and us$298k for hospitalizations. the mean costs (for gprd events) over calendar time were us$58k during 1990-1993 and us$174k during 2002-2005. using rct data rather than gprd data for event probabilities  the mean cost was us$16k with the vigor rct and us$20k with the class rct. conclusions the published cost-effectiveness analyses of coxibs lacked external validity  did not represent patients in actual clinical practice  and should not have been used to inform prescribing policies. external validity should be an explicit requirement for cost-effectiveness analyses.
2466,primpol bypasses uv photoproducts during eukaryotic chromosomal dna replication,dna damage can stall the dna replication machinery  leading to genomic instability. thus  numerous mechanisms exist to complete genome duplication in the absence of a pristine dna template  but identification of the enzymes involved remains incomplete. here  we establish that primase-polymerase (primpol; ccdc111)  an archaeal-eukaryotic primase (aep) in eukaryotic cells  is involved in chromosomal dna replication. primpol is required for replication fork progression on ultraviolet (uv) light-damaged dna templates  possibly mediated by its ability to catalyze translesion synthesis (tls) of these lesions. this primpol uv lesion bypass pathway is not epistatic with the pol η-dependent pathway and  as a consequence  protects xeroderma pigmentosum variant (xp-v) patient cells from uv-induced cytotoxicity. in addition  we establish that primpol is also required for efficient replication fork progression during an unperturbed s phase. these and other findings indicate that primpol is an important player in replication fork progression in eukaryotic cells.
2468,poor prognosis in carcinoma is associated with a gene expression signature of aberrant pten tumor suppressor pathway activity.,pathway-specific therapy is the future of cancer management. the oncogenic phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (pi3k) pathway is frequently activated in solid tumors; however  currently  no reliable test for pi3k pathway activation exists for human tumors. taking advantage of the observation that loss of pten  the negative regulator of pi3k  results in robust activation of this pathway  we developed and validated a microarray gene expression signature for immunohistochemistry (ihc)-detectable pten loss in breast cancer (bc). the most significant signature gene was pten itself  indicating that pten mrna levels are the primary determinant of pten protein levels in bc. some pten ihc-positive bcs exhibited the signature of pten loss  which was associated to moderately reduced pten mrna levels cooperating with specific types of pik3ca mutations and/or amplification of her2. this demonstrates that the signature is more sensitive than pten ihc for identifying tumors with pathway activation. in independent data sets of breast  prostate  and bladder carcinoma  prediction of pathway activity by the signature correlated significantly to poor patient outcome. stathmin  encoded by the signature gene stmn1  was an accurate ihc marker of the signature and had prognostic significance in bc. stathmin was also pathway-pharmacodynamic in vitro and in vivo. thus  the signature or its components such as stathmin may be clinically useful tests for stratification of patients for anti-pi3k pathway therapy and monitoring therapeutic efficacy. this study indicates that aberrant pi3k pathway signaling is strongly associated with metastasis and poor survival across carcinoma types  highlighting the enormous potential impact on patient survival that pathway inhibition could achieve.
2470,cd4+ t cell-mediated cytotoxicity eliminates primary tumor cells in metastatic melanoma through high mhc class ii expression and can be enhanced by inhibitory receptor blockade,metastatic melanoma is a rapidly progressing disease with high mortality rate and limited treatment options. immunotherapy based on tumor-targeting cytotoxic t cell responses represents a promising strategy. to assist in its development  we examined the possibility and efficacy of using cd4+ cytotoxic t cells. the regulatory mechanisms controlling cd4+ t cell-mediated cytotoxicity were also investigated. we found that naturally occurring granzyme b and perforin-expressing cd4+ cytotoxic t cells can be recovered from metastatic melanoma patients at significantly elevated frequencies compared to those from healthy controls. these cd4+ cytotoxic t cells were also capable of killing autologous tumor cells harvested from metastatic melanoma  independent of cd8+ t cells or any other cell types. however  several restricting factors were observed. first  the cytolytic activity by cd4+ t cells required high mhc class ii expression on melanoma cells  which was not satisfied in a subset of melanomas. second  the granzyme b and perforin release by activated cd4+ cytotoxic t cells was reduced after coculturing with autologous melanoma cells  characterized by low lamp-1 expression and low granzyme b and perforin secretion in the supernatant. this suggested that inhibitory mechanisms were present to suppress cd4+ cytotoxic t cells. indeed  blockade of pd-1 and ctla-4 had increased the cytolytic activity of cd4+ t cells but was only effective in mhc class ii high but not mhc class ii low melanomas. together  our study showed that cd4+ t cell-mediated cytotoxicity could eliminate primary melanoma cells but the efficacy depended on mhc class ii expression.
2472,improving population representation through geographic health information systems: mapping the murdock study.,this paper highlights methods for using geospatial analysis to assess  enhance  and improve recruitment efforts to ensure representativeness in study populations. we apply these methods to the measurement to understand reclassification of disease of cabarrus/kannapolis (murdock) study  a longitudinal population health study focused on the city of kannapolis and cabarrus county  nc. although efforts have been made to recruit a participant registry that is representative of the 18 zip code catchment region inclusive of cabarrus county and kannapolis  bias in such recruitment is inevitable. participants in the murdock study are geospatially referenced at entry  providing information that can be used to monitor and guide recruitment efforts. murdock participant population representativeness was assessed using chi-squared tests to compare the murdock population with 2010 census data  relative to both the entire 18 zip code catchment area and for individual census tracts. a logistic regression model was fit to characterize census tracts with low recruitment  defined by fewer than 56 participants from that tract. the distance to the site at which participants enrolled was calculated  and median distance to enrollment site was used in the logistic regression. tracts with low recruitment rates contained higher minority and younger populations  suggesting specific strategies for improving recruitment in these areas. areal units farther away from enrollment sites were also not well-sampled  despite being in the specified study area  indicating that distance traveled to enrollment may be a barrier. these results have implications for targeting recruitment efforts and representative samples more generally  including in other population-based studies.
2474,longitudinal genome-wide association of cardiovascular disease risk factors in the bogalusa heart study,cardiovascular disease (cvd) is the leading cause of death worldwide. recent genome-wide association (gwa) studies have pinpointed many loci associated with cvd risk factors in adults. it is unclear  however  if these loci predict trait levels at all ages  if they are associated with how a trait develops over time  or if they could be used to screen individuals who are pre-symptomatic to provide the opportunity for preventive measures before disease onset. we completed a genome-wide association study on participants in the longitudinal bogalusa heart study (bhs) and have characterized the association between genetic factors and the development of cvd risk factors from childhood to adulthood. we report 7 genome-wide significant associations involving cvd risk factors  two of which have been previously reported. top regions were tested for replication in the young finns study (yf) and two associations strongly replicated: rs247616 in cetp with hdl levels (combined p = 9.7 x 10(-24))  and rs445925 at apoe with ldl levels (combined p = 8.7 x 10(-19)). we show that snps previously identified in adult cross-sectional studies tend to show age-independent effects in the bhs with effect sizes consistent with previous reports. previously identified variants were associated with adult trait levels above and beyond those seen in childhood; however  variants with time-dependent effects were also promising predictors. this is the first gwa study to evaluate the role of common genetic variants in the development of cvd risk factors in children as they advance through adulthood and highlights the utility of using longitudinal studies to identify genetic predictors of adult traits in children.
2476,reproducibility and automatic measurement of qt dispersion.,this study investigated interobserver (two observers) and intrasubject (two measurements) reproducibility of qt dispersion from abnormal electrocardiograms in patients with previous myocardial infarction  and compared a user-interactive with an automatic measurement system. standard 12-lead electrocardiograms  recorded at 25 mm.s-1  were randomly chosen from 70 patients following myocardial infarction. these were scanned into a personal computer  and specially designed software skeletonized and joined each image. the images were then available for user-interactive (mouse and computer screen)  or automatic measurements using a specially designed algorithm. for all methods reproducibility of the rr interval was excellent (mean absolute errors 3-4 ms  relative errors 0.3-0.5%). reproducibility of the mean qt interval was good; intrasubject error was 6 ms (relative error 1.4%)  interobserver error was 7 ms (1.8%)  and observers' vs automatic measurement errors were 10 and 11 ms (2.5  2.8%). however qtc dispersion measurements had large errors for all methods; intrasubject error was 12 ms (17.3%)  interobserver error was 15 ms (22.1%)  and observers' vs automatic measurement were errors 30 and 28 ms (35.4  31.9%). qt dispersion measurements rely on the most difficult to measure qt intervals  resulting in a problem of reproducibility. any automatic system must not only recognize common t wave morphologies  but also these more difficult t waves  if it is to be useful for measuring qt dispersion. the poor reproducibility of qt dispersion limits its role as a useful clinical tool  particularly as a predictor of events.
2478,challenges for malaria elimination in zanzibar: pyrethroid resistance in malaria vectors and poor performance of long-lasting insecticide nets,background long-lasting insecticide treated nets (llins) and indoor residual house spraying (irs) are the main interventions for the control of malaria vectors in zanzibar. the aim of the present study was to assess the susceptibility status of malaria vectors against the insecticides used for llins and irs and to determine the durability and efficacy of llins on the island. methods mosquitoes were sampled from pemba and unguja islands in 2010-2011 for use in who susceptibility tests. one hundred and fifty llins were collected from households on unguja  their physical state was recorded and then tested for efficacy as well as total insecticide content. results species identification revealed that over 90% of the anopheles gambiae complex was an. arabiensis with a small number of an. gambiae s.s. and an. merus being present. susceptibility tests showed that an. arabiensis on pemba was resistant to the pyrethroids used for llins and irs. mosquitoes from unguja island  however  were fully susceptible to all pyrethroids tested. a physical examination of 150 llins showed that two thirds were damaged after only three years in use. all used nets had a significantly lower (p < 0.001) mean permethrin concentration of 791.6 mg/m2 compared with 944.2 mg/m2 for new ones. their efficacy decreased significantly against both susceptible an. gambiae s.s. colony mosquitoes and wild-type mosquitoes from pemba after just six washes (p < 0.001). conclusion the sustainability of the gains achieved in malaria control in zanzibar is seriously threatened by the resistance of malaria vectors to pyrethroids and the short-lived efficacy of llins. this study has revealed that even in relatively well-resourced and logistically manageable places like zanzibar  malaria elimination is going to be difficult to achieve with the current control measures.
2480,development of the human infant intestinal microbiota,almost immediately after a human being is born  so too is a new microbial ecosystem  one that resides in that person's gastrointestinal tract. although it is a universal and integral part of human biology  the temporal progression of this process  the sources of the microbes that make up the ecosystem  how and why it varies from one infant to another  and how the composition of this ecosystem influences human physiology  development  and disease are still poorly understood. as a step toward systematically investigating these questions  we designed a microarray to detect and quantitate the small subunit ribosomal rna (ssu rrna) gene sequences of most currently recognized species and taxonomic groups of bacteria. we used this microarray  along with sequencing of cloned libraries of pcr-amplified ssu rdna  to profile the microbial communities in an average of 26 stool samples each from 14 healthy  full-term human infants  including a pair of dizygotic twins  beginning with the first stool after birth and continuing at defined intervals throughout the first year of life. to investigate possible origins of the infant microbiota  we also profiled vaginal and milk samples from most of the mothers  and stool samples from all of the mothers  most of the fathers  and two siblings. the composition and temporal patterns of the microbial communities varied widely from baby to baby. despite considerable temporal variation  the distinct features of each baby's microbial community were recognizable for intervals of weeks to months. the strikingly parallel temporal patterns of the twins suggested that incidental environmental exposures play a major role in determining the distinctive characteristics of the microbial community in each baby. by the end of the first year of life  the idiosyncratic microbial ecosystems in each baby  although still distinct  had converged toward a profile characteristic of the adult gastrointestinal tract.
2482,matrix eqtl: ultra fast eqtl analysis via large matrix operations,expression quantitative trait loci (eqtl) mapping aims to determine genomic regions that regulate gene transcription. expression qtl is used to study the regulatory structure of normal tissues and to search for genetic factors in complex diseases such as cancer  diabetes  and cystic fibrosis. a modern eqtl dataset contains millions of snps and thousands of transcripts measured for hundreds of samples. this makes the analysis computationally complex as it involves independent testing for association for every transcript-snp pair. the heavy computational burden makes eqtl analysis less popular  often forces analysts to restrict their attention to just a subset of transcripts and snps. as larger genotype and gene expression datasets become available  the demand for fast tools for eqtl analysis increases. we present a new method for fast eqtl analysis via linear models  called matrix eqtl. matrix eqtl can model and test for association using both linear regression and anova models. the models can include covariates to account for such factors as population structure  gender  and clinical variables. it also supports testing of heteroscedastic models and models with correlated errors. in our experiment on large datasets matrix eqtl was thousands of times faster than the existing popular software for qtl/eqtl analysis. matrix eqtl is implemented as both matlab and r packages and thus can easily be run on windows  mac os  and linux systems. the software is freely available at the following address: http://www.bios.unc.edu/research/genomic_software/matrix_eqtl
2484,n348i in the connection domain of hiv-1 reverse transcriptase confers zidovudine and nevirapine resistance,background the catalytically active 66-kda subunit of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (hiv-1) reverse transcriptase (rt) consists of dna polymerase  connection  and ribonuclease h (rnase h) domains. almost all known rt inhibitor resistance mutations identified to date map to the polymerase domain of the enzyme. however  the connection and rnase h domains are not routinely analysed in clinical samples and none of the genotyping assays available for patient management sequence the entire rt coding region. the british columbia centre for excellence in hiv/aids (the centre) genotypes clinical isolates up to codon 400 in rt  and our retrospective statistical analyses of the centre’s database have identified an n348i mutation in the rt connection domain in treatment-experienced individuals. the objective of this multidisciplinary study was to establish the in vivo relevance of this mutation and its role in drug resistance. methods and findings the prevalence of n348i in clinical isolates  the time taken for it to emerge under selective drug pressure  and its association with changes in viral load  specific drug treatment  and known drug resistance mutations was analysed from genotypes  viral loads  and treatment histories from the centre’s database. n348i increased in prevalence from below 1% in 368 treatmentnao ¨ve individuals to 12.1% in 1 009 treatment-experienced patients (p ¼ 7.7 3 10 � 12 ). n348i appeared early in therapy and was highly associated with thymidine analogue mutations (tams) m41l and t215y/f (p   0.001)  the lamivudine resistance mutations m184v/i (p   0.001)  and non-nucleoside rti (nnrti) resistance mutations k103n and y181c/i (p   0.001). the association with tams and nnrti resistance mutations was consistent with the selection of n348i in patients treated with regimens that included both zidovudine and nevirapine (odds ratio 2.62  95% confidence interval 1.43–4.81). the appearance of n348i was associated with a significant increase in viral load (p   0.001)  which was as large as the viral load increases observed for any of the tams. however  this analysis did not account for the simultaneous selection of other rt or protease inhibitor resistance mutations on viral load. to delineate the role of this mutation in rt inhibitor resistance  n348i was introduced into hiv-1 molecular clones containing different genetic backbones. n348i decreased zidovudine susceptibility 2- to 4-fold in the context of wildtype hiv-1 or when combined with tams. n348i also decreased susceptibility to nevirapine (7.4fold) and efavirenz (2.5-fold) and significantly potentiated resistance to these drugs when combined with k103n. biochemical analyses of recombinant rt containing n348i provide supporting evidence for the role of this mutation in zidovudine and nnrti resistance and give some insight into the molecular mechanism of resistance. conclusions
2486,a nano-positioning system for macromolecular structural analysis,very often  the positions of flexible domains within macromolecules as well as within macromolecular complexes cannot be determined by standard structural biology methods. to overcome this problem  we developed a method that uses probabilistic data analysis to combine single-molecule measurements with x-ray crystallography data. the method determines not only the most likely position of a fluorescent dye molecule attached to the domain but also the complete three-dimensional probability distribution depicting the experimental uncertainty. with this approach  single-pair fluorescence resonance energy transfer measurements can now be used as a quantitative tool for investigating the position and dynamics of flexible domains within macromolecular complexes. we applied this method to find the position of the 5′ end of the nascent rna exiting transcription elongation complexes of yeast (saccharomyces cerevisiae) rna polymerase ii and studied the influence of transcription factor iib on the position of the rna.
2488,geometric cues for directing the differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells.,significant efforts have been directed to understanding the factors that influence the lineage commitment of stem cells. this paper demonstrates that cell shape  independent of soluble factors  has a strong influence on the differentiation of human mesenchymal stem cells (mscs) from bone marrow. when exposed to competing soluble differentiation signals  cells cultured in rectangles with increasing aspect ratio and in shapes with pentagonal symmetry but with different subcellular curvature-and with each occupying the same area-display different adipogenesis and osteogenesis profiles. the results reveal that geometric features that increase actomyosin contractility promote osteogenesis and are consistent with in vivo characteristics of the microenvironment of the differentiated cells. cytoskeletal-disrupting pharmacological agents modulate shape-based trends in lineage commitment verifying the critical role of focal adhesion and myosin-generated contractility during differentiation. microarray analysis and pathway inhibition studies suggest that contractile cells promote osteogenesis by enhancing c-jun n-terminal kinase (jnk) and extracellular related kinase (erk1/2) activation in conjunction with elevated wingless-type (wnt) signaling. taken together  this work points to the role that geometric shape cues can play in orchestrating the mechanochemical signals and paracrine/autocrine factors that can direct mscs to appropriate fates.
2490,estimating low-density lipoprotein cholesterol by the friedewald equation is adequate for classifying patients on the basis of nationally recommended cutpoints.,we compared low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (ldl) values obtained by the friedewald formula--i.e.  total cholesterol minus high-density lipoprotein (hdl) cholesterol minus very-low-density lipoprotein (vldl) cholesterol (estimated as triglyceride divided by 5)--with those obtained by lipoprotein fractionation  using 4736 specimens. when triglycerides were less than 2.0 g/l  greater than 90% of estimated ldl cholesterol values were acceptable  within +/- 10% of measured values. at triglyceride concentrations of 2.0-4.0 g/l and 4.0-6.0 g/l  only 72% and 39%  respectively  of the estimates were acceptable. ldl values derived from an alternative formula  estimating vldl as triglycerides divided by 6  were even less accurate. nevertheless  the use of estimated ldl for risk classification based on the national cholesterol education program adult treatment panel cutpoints of 1.30 and 1.60 g/l was considered acceptable. at triglyceride concentrations less than or equal to 5.0 g/l  88% of classifications based on estimated ldl (using triglycerides divided by 5) were concordant with those by measured ldl. eleven percent of classifications were shifted across one cutpoint  evenly distributed between high and low. fewer than 1% of classifications  all with type iii hyperlipoproteinemia  were misclassified two cutpoints high. refinements in the estimation model did not substantially improve ldl estimation or concordance of risk classification.
2492,morin attenuates ovalbumin-induced airway inflammation by modulating oxidative stress-responsive mapk signaling.,asthma is one of the most common inflammatory diseases characterized by airway hyperresponsiveness  inflammation  and remodeling. morin  an active ingredient obtained from moraceae plants  has been demonstrated to have promising anti-inflammatory activities in a range of disorders. however  its impacts on pulmonary diseases  particularly on asthma  have not been clarified. this study was designed to investigate whether morin alleviates airway inflammation in chronic asthma with an emphasis on oxidative stress modulation. in vivo  ovalbumin- (ova-) sensitized mice were administered with morin or dexamethasone before challenge. bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (balf) and lung tissues were obtained to perform cell counts  histological analysis  and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. in vitro  human bronchial epithelial cells (becs) were challenged by tumor necrosis factor alpha (tnf-α). the supernatant was collected for the detection of the proinflammatory proteins  and the cells were collected for reactive oxygen species (ros)/mitogen-activated protein kinase (mapk) evaluations. severe inflammatory responses and remodeling were observed in the airways of the ova-sensitized mice. treatment with morin dramatically attenuated the extensive trafficking of inflammatory cells into the balf and inhibited their infiltration around the respiratory tracts and vessels. morin administration also significantly suppressed goblet cell hyperplasia and collagen deposition/fibrosis and dose-dependently inhibited the ova-induced increases in ige  tnf-α  interleukin- (il-) 4  il-13  matrix metalloproteinase-9  and malondialdehyde. in human becs challenged by tnf-α  the levels of proteins such as eotaxin-1  monocyte chemoattractant protein-1  il-8 and intercellular adhesion molecule-1  were consistently significantly decreased by morin. western blotting and the 2' 7'-dichlorofluorescein assay revealed that the increases in intracellular ros and mapk phosphorylation were abolished by morin  implying that ros/mapk signaling contributes to the relief of airway inflammation. our findings indicate for the first time that morin alleviates airway inflammation in chronic asthma  which probably occurs via the oxidative stress-responsive mapk pathway  highlighting a novel profile of morin as a potent agent for asthma management.
2494,preventing bacterial dna release and absent in melanoma 2 inflammasome activation by a legionella effector functioning in membrane trafficking.,legionella pneumophila  the causative agent of legionnaires' pneumonia  resides in a distinct vacuole structure called legionella-containing vacuole (lcv). the lcv resists fusion with the lysosome and permits efficient bacterial replication in host macrophages  which requires a dot/icm type ivb secretion system. dot/icm-translocated effector sdha is critical for l. pneumophila intracellular growth and functions to prevent host cell death. here  we show that the absence of sdha resulted in elevated caspase-1 activation and il-1β secretion as well as macrophage pyroptosis during legionella infection. these inflammasome activation phenotypes were independent of the established flagellin-naip5-nlrc4 axis  but relied on the dna-sensing aim2 inflammasome. we further demonstrate that legionella dna was released into macrophage cytosol  and this effect was significantly exaggerated by the absence of sdha. sdha bears a functional golgi-targeting grip domain that is required for preventing aim2 inflammasome activation. ectopically expressed sdha formed a unique ring-shape membrane structure  further indicating a role in membrane trafficking and maintaining lcv membrane integrity. our data together suggest a possible link  mediated by the function of sdha  between lcv trafficking/maturation and suppression of host innate immune detection.
2496,human cytomegalovirus-encoded interleukin-10 homolog inhibits maturation of dendritic cells and alters their functionality,interleukin-10 (il-10) suppresses the maturation and cytokine production of dendritic cells (dcs)  key regulators of adaptive immunity  and prevents the activation and polarization of naïve t cells towards protective gamma interferon-producing effectors. we hypothesized that human cytomegalovirus (hcmv) utilizes its viral il-10 homolog (cmvil-10) to attenuate dc functionality  thereby subverting the efficient induction of antiviral immune responses. rna and protein analyses demonstrated that the cmvil-10 gene was expressed with late gene kinetics. treatment of immature dcs (idcs) with supernatant from hcmv-infected cultures inhibited both the lipopolysaccharide-induced dc maturation and proinflammatory cytokine production. these inhibitory effects were specifically mediated through the il-10 receptor and were not observed when dcs were treated with supernatant of cells infected with a cmvil-10-knockout mutant. incubation of idcs with recombinant cmvil-10 recapitulated the inhibition of maturation. furthermore  cmvil-10 had pronounced long-term effects on those dcs that could overcome this inhibition of maturation. it enhanced the migration of mature dcs (mdcs) towards the lymph node homing chemokine but greatly reduced their cytokine production. the inability of mdcs to secrete il-12 was maintained  even when they were restimulated by the activated t-cell signal cd40 ligand in the absence of cmvil-10. importantly  cmvil-10 potentiates these anti-inflammatory effects  at least partially  by inducing endogenous cellular il-10 expression in dcs. collectively  we show that cmvil-10 causes long-term functional alterations at all stages of dc activation.
2498,the inflammasome component nlrp3 impairs antitumor vaccine by enhancing the accumulation of tumor-associated myeloid-derived suppressor cells.,the inflammasome is a proteolysis complex that generates the active forms of the proinflammatory cytokines interleukin (il)-1β and il-18. inflammasome activation is mediated by nlr proteins that respond to microbial and nonmicrobial stimuli. among nlrs  nlrp3 senses the widest array of stimuli and enhances adaptive immunity. however  its role in antitumor immunity is unknown. therefore  we evaluated the function of the nlrp3 inflammasome in the immune response using dendritic cell vaccination against the poorly immunogenic melanoma cell line b16-f10. vaccination of nlrp3(-/-) mice led to a relative 4-fold improvement in survival relative to control animals. immunity depended on cd8(+) t cells and exhibited immune specificity and memory. increased vaccine efficacy in nlrp3(-/-) hosts did not reflect differences in dendritic cells but rather differences in myeloid-derived suppressor cells (mdsc). although nlrp3 was expressed in mdscs  the absence of nlrp3 did not alter either their functional capacity to inhibit t cells or their presence in peripheral lymphoid tissues. instead  the absence of nlrp3 caused a 5-fold reduction in the number of tumor-associated mdscs found in host mice. adoptive transfer experiments also showed that nlrp3(-/-) mdscs were less efficient in reaching the tumor site. depleting mdscs with an anti-gr-1 antibody increased the survival of tumor-bearing wild-type mice but not nlrp3(-/-) mice. we concluded that nlrp3 was critical for accumulation of mdscs in tumors and for inhibition of antitumor t-cell immunity after dendritic cell vaccination. our findings establish an unexpected role for nlrp3 in impeding antitumor immune responses  suggesting novel approaches to improve the response to antitumor vaccines by limiting nlrp3 signaling.
2500,differential activation of dna-pk based on dna strand orientation and sequence bias,dna-pkcs and ku are essential components of the complex that catalyzes non-homologous end joining (nhej) of dna double-strand breaks (dsbs). ku  a heterodimeric protein  binds to dna ends and facilitates recruitment of the catalytic subunit  dna-pkcs. we have investigated the effect of dna strand orientation and sequence bias on the activation of dna-pk. in addition  we assessed the effect of the position and strand orientation of cisplatin adducts on kinase activation. a series of duplex dna substrates with site-specific cisplatin–dna adducts placed in three different orientations on the duplex dna were prepared. terminal biotin modification and streptavidin (sa) blocking was employed to direct dna-pk binding to the unblocked termini with a specific dna strand orientation and cisplatin–dna adduct position. dna-pk kinase activity was measured and the results reveal that dna strand orientation and sequence bias dramatically influence kinase activation  only a portion of which could be attributed to ku-dna binding activity. in addition  cisplatin–dna adduct position resulted in differing degrees of inhibition depending on distance from the terminus as well as strand orientation. these results highlight the importance of how local variations in dna structure  chemistry and sequence influence dna-pk activation and potentially nhej.
2502,chemotherapy options in elderly and frail patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (mrc focus2): an open-label  randomised factorial trial,background elderly and frail patients with cancer  although often treated with chemotherapy  are under-represented in clinical trials. we designed focus2 to investigate reduced-dose chemotherapy options and to seek objective predictors of outcome in frail patients with advanced colorectal cancer. methods we undertook an open  2 × 2 factorial trial in 61 uk centres for patients with previously untreated advanced colorectal cancer who were considered unfit for full-dose chemotherapy. after comprehensive health assessment (cha)  patients were randomly assigned by minimisation to: 48-h intravenous fluorouracil with levofolinate (group a); oxaliplatin and fluorouracil (group b); capecitabine (group c); or oxaliplatin and capecitabine (group d). treatment allocation was not masked. starting doses were 80% of standard doses  with discretionary escalation to full dose after 6 weeks. the two primary outcome measures were: addition of oxaliplatin ([a vs b] + [c vs d])  assessed with progression-free survival (pfs); and substitution of fluorouracil with capecitabine ([a vs c] + [b vs d])  assessed by change from baseline to 12 weeks in global quality of life (qol). analysis was by intention to treat. baseline clinical and cha data were modelled against outcomes with a novel composite measure  overall treatment utility (otu). this study is registered  number isrctn21221452. findings 459 patients were randomly assigned (115 to each of groups a-c  114 to group d). factorial comparison of addition of oxaliplatin versus no addition suggested some improvement in pfs  but the finding was not significant (median 5·8 months [iqr 3·3-7·5] vs 4·5 months [2·8-6·4]; hazard ratio 0·84  95% ci 0·69-1·01  p=0·07). replacement of fluorouracil with capecitabine did not improve global qol: 69 of 124 (56%) patients receiving fluorouracil reported improvement in global qol compared with 69 of 123 (56%) receiving capecitabine. the risk of having any grade 3 or worse toxic effect was not significantly increased with oxaliplatin (83/219 [38%] vs 70/221 [32%]; p=0·17)  but was higher with capecitabine than with fluorouracil (88/222 [40%] vs 65/218 [30%]; p=0·03). in multivariable analysis  fewer baseline symptoms (odds ratio 1·32  95% ci 1·14-1·52)  less widespread disease (1·51  1·05-2·19)  and use of oxaliplatin (0·57  0·39-0·82) were predictive of better otu. interpretation focus2 shows that with an appropriate design  including reduced starting doses of chemotherapy  frail and elderly patients can participate in a randomised controlled trial. on balance  a combination including oxaliplatin was preferable to single-agent fluoropyrimidines  although the primary endpoint of pfs was not met. capecitabine did not improve qol compared with fluorouracil. comprehensive baseline assessment holds promise as an objective predictor of treatment benefit. funding cancer research uk and the medical research council.
2504,ultrasound imaging for lumbar punctures and epidural catheterisations: systematic review and meta-analysis.,objective to determine whether ultrasound imaging can reduce the risk of failed lumbar punctures or epidural catheterisations  when compared with standard palpation methods  and whether ultrasound imaging can reduce traumatic procedures  insertion attempts  and needle redirections. design systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials. data sources ovid medline  embase  and cochrane central register of controlled trials up to may 2012  without restriction by language or publication status. review methods randomised trials that compared ultrasound imaging with standard methods (no imaging) in the performance of a lumbar puncture or epidural catheterisation were identified. results 14 studies with a total of 1334 patients were included (674 patients assigned to the ultrasound group  660 to the control group). five studies evaluated lumbar punctures and nine evaluated epidural catheterisations. six of 624 procedures conducted in the ultrasound group failed; 44 of 610 procedures in the control group failed. ultrasound imaging reduced the risk of failed procedures (risk ratio 0.21 (95% confidence interval 0.10 to 0.43)  p<0.001). risk reduction was similar when subgroup analysis was performed for lumbar punctures (risk ratio 0.19 (0.07 to 0.56)  p=0.002) or epidural catheterisations (0.23 (0.09 to 0.60)  p=0.003). ultrasound imaging also significantly reduced the risk of traumatic procedures (risk ratio 0.27 (0.11 to 0.67)  p=0.005)  the number of insertion attempts (mean difference -0.44 (-0.64 to -0.24)  p<0.001)  and the number of needle redirections (mean difference -1.00 (-1.24 to -0.75)  p<0.001). conclusions ultrasound imaging can reduce the risk of failed or traumatic lumbar punctures and epidural catheterisations  as well as the number of needle insertions and redirections. ultrasound may be a useful adjunct for these procedures.
2506,sirt1 is required for long-term growth of human mesenchymal stem cells,human mesenchymal stem cells (mscs) have therapeutic potential because of their ability to self-renew and differentiate into multiple tissues. however  senescence often occurs in mscs when they are cultured in vitro and the molecular mechanisms underlying this effect remain unclear. in this study  we found that nad-dependent protein deacetylase sirt1 is differentially expressed in both human bone marrow-derived mscs (b-mscs) and adipose tissue-derived mscs after increasing passages of cell culture. using lentiviral shrna we demonstrated that selective knockdown of sirt1 in human mscs at early passage slows down cell growth and accelerates cellular senescence. conversely  overexpression of sirt1 delays senescence in b-mscs that have undergone prolonged in vitro culturing and the cells do not lose adipogenic and osteogenic potential. in addition  we found that the delayed accumulation of the protein p16 is involved in the effect of sirt1. however  resveratrol  which has been used as an activator of sirt1 deacetylase activity  only transiently promotes proliferation of b-mscs. our findings will help us understand the role of sirt1 in the aging of normal diploid cells and may contribute to the prevention of human mscs senescence thus benefiting mscs-based tissue engineering and therapies.
2508,sublime microglia: expanding roles for the guardians of the cns,recent findings challenge the concept that microglia solely function in disease states in the central nervous system (cns). rather than simply reacting to cns injury  infection  or pathology  emerging lines of evidence indicate that microglia sculpt the structure of the cns  refine neuronal circuitry and network connectivity  and contribute to plasticity. these physiological functions of microglia in the normal cns begin during development and persist into maturity. here  we develop a conceptual framework for functions of microglia beyond neuroinflammation and discuss the rich repertoire of signaling and communication motifs in microglia that are critical both in pathology and for the normal physiology of the cns.
2510,keeping your senescent cells under control,cellular senescence is a stable form of cell-cycle arrest which is thought to limit the proliferative potential of premalignant cells [1]. the senescence phenotype was initially described by hayflick and moorhead in 1961 on human fibroblasts undergoing replicative exhaustion in culture [2]. it has been shown that senescence can be triggered in different cell types in response to diverse forms of cellular damage or stress (for review see [1]). importantly  while senescence was denounced as a tissue culture phenomenon for many years  recent in vivo studies demonstrated that cellular senescence represents a potent failsafe mechanism against tumorigenesis and contributes to the cytotoxicity of certain anticancer agents (see for example [3-7]). interestingly  senescent cells have also been observed in certain aged or damaged tissues and there is growing evidence that senescence checkpoints can affect the regenerative reserve of tissues and organismal aging [8-11]. however  senescence may also have positive effects on organ maintenance by limiting pathological responses to acute forms of injury such as fibrotic scarring in response to chemical induced liver injury [12]. over the past years it was also shown that senescent cells can communicate with their environment by secreting a myriad of cytokines and growth factors. interestingly  this "senescence associated secretory phenotype (sasp)" seems to be a double edged sword regarding tumor initiation and maintenance:    i)    on the one hand  it has been shown that the sasp can have pro-tumorigenic effects. in an experimental system it was shown that senescent mesenchymal cells can enhance the tumorigenicity of surrounding breast cancer cells [13]. ii)    similarly  it is possible that the sasp enhances selection of transformed cell clones in aged organ systems. it has been shown that loss of proliferative competition of non-transformed cells can accelerate leukemogenesis [14]. it remains to be seen whether aberrant secretion of cytokines and growth factors by the sasp can accelerated this process in aged and chronically damage organ systems. iii)    in contrast to its pro-tumorigenic aspect  the sasp could also have anti-tumor effects. a recent study showed that in a mosaic liver cancer mouse model the activation of p53 induced senescence  an upregulation of inflammatory cytokines  and activation of innate immune responses leading to tumour cell clearance [15]. iv)    in further support that the sasp could have anti-tumor activities  a series of recent papers showed that components of the sasp can stabilize the senescence cell cycle arrest via an autoregulatory feedback loop [16 17] or induces apoptosis of tumor cells [18]. in addition to its effects on tumorigenesis  the sasp could also influence tissue aging. studies on aging telomere dysfunctional mice have provided direct experimental evidence for an in vivo activation of the sasp in response to telomere dysfunction [19]. interestingly  this in vivo sasp provoked alterations in stem cell differentiation (skewing of hematopoiesis towards reduction in lymphopoiesis and enhancement of myelopoiesis) that are also characteristic signs of human aging. figure 1. different cellular stresses can induce senescence including telomere shortening  dna damage  and oncogene activation. senescence of tumor cells ... in light of the many possible roles o the sasp in aging and carcinogenesis  it appears to be of utmost importance to decipher regulatory pathways controlling the sasp. in a current publication  bhaumik et al. have identified 2 micrornas (mir-146a/b) that negatively regulate the secretion of il-6 and il-8 - two of the sasp [20]. the authors show that these micrornas are up-regulated at late stages of senescence  many days after a permanent cell cycle arrest has been established. interestingly  the inhibitory mirs are most strongly up-regulated in senescence of cell lines that show a strong sasp but not in cell lines characterized by a weak sasp. the authors propose a new concept indicating that mirs 146a and b function in a negative feedback loop preventing an over-activation of the sasp in senescent cells. the authors present some initial data suggesting that activation of this negative feedback loop involves il-1 receptor  irak-1  and nfκb signalling leading to an up-regulation of mirs-146a and b. a direct proof that this proposed feedback loop suppresses over-activation of the sasp remains to be demonstrated in future studies. the authors show that blockage of il-1-receptor signalling prevents both the up-regulation of mirs-146a and b as well as il-6 secretion. to confirm their new concept  it would be important to show that a selective blockage of mirs-146a and b results in over-activation of the sasp. the work by bhaumik et al. places mir-146a/b as central players to control il-6 and il-8 expression within the sasp. micrornas are emerging therapeutic targets because their expression levels can be effectively modulated via the use of antagomirs (see for example [21]). also  for increasing microrna expression  micrornas can be delivered into cellsin vivo (see for example [22]). therefore  it will be interesting to functionally test the impact of mir-146 inhibition on tumorigenesis and aging in relevant mouse models. such studies will be of particular interest  as recent work showed that il-6 secretion by senescent cells is relevant for initiating and maintaining the senescene response via an autocrine loop [17]. a reduction of mir-146 could increase il-6 levels in senescent cells  which should stabilize the senescence program and reduce the risk of malignant transformation. furthermore  it can be speculated that reduction of mir-146 a/b will increase nfκb activation via irak1. as nfκb is modulating the expression of various inflammation associated genes  this may also lead to increased clearance of senescent tumor cells by the innate immune system. however  it should be mentioned that il-6 secreted by senescent cells can also act as a mitogen for surrounding cells  thus potentially increasing the risk of malignant transformation [13 17]. besides its function in sasp modulation  mir-146 was also reported to target the mrnas of the brca1 and brca2 tumor suppressors. in a recent study a g to c polymorphism in mir-146  which leads to an increased processing and release of the mature microrna  can predict an early onset of breast cancer [23]. taken together  the study of bhaumik et al. opens an interesting new research area dealing with the gene regulatory mechanisms that control activation of the sasp. given the diverse roles of the sasp in modulating tumor progression  immune surveillance of damaged cells  and the stabilization of the senescence arrest itself  it will be of great interest to analyse the influence of sasp regulatory pathways during aging and cancer.
2512,[new guidelines to evaluate the response to treatment in solid tumors].,anticancer agents go through a process by which their antitumor activity  on the basis of the amount of tumor shrinkage they could generate  has been investigated. in the late 1970s  the international union against cancer and the world health organization (who) introduced specific criteria for the codification of tumor response evaluation. in 1994  several organizations involved in clinical cancer research joined together to undertake the review of these response evaluation criteria on the basis of their experience and knowledge. after several years of intensive discussions  new guidelines are ready and will replace the previous who criteria. in parallel to this initiative  one of the participating groups developed a model by which response rates could be derived from unidimensional measurement of tumor lesions instead of the usual bidimensional approach. this new concept has been largely validated by the response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (recist) group and integrated into the present guidelines. this special article provides some philosophic background to clarify the various purposes of response evaluation. it proposes a model by which a combined assessment of all existing lesions  characterized by target lesion (to be measured) and nontarget lesions  is used to extrapolate an overall response to treatment. methods of assessing tumor lesions are better codified. all other aspects of response evaluation have been discussed  reviewed  and amended whenever suitable.
2514,the role of iron in mycobacterium smegmatis biofilm formation: the exochelin siderophore is essential in limiting iron conditions for biofilm formation but not for planktonic growth,many species of mycobacteria form structured biofilm communities at liquid–air interfaces and on solid surfaces. full development of mycobacterium smegmatis biofilms requires addition of supplemental iron above 1 μm ferrous sulphate  although addition of iron is not needed for planktonic growth. microarray analysis of the m. smegmatis transcriptome shows that iron-responsive genes – especially those involved in siderophore synthesis and iron uptake – are strongly induced during biofilm formation reflecting a response to iron deprivation  even when 2 μm iron is present. the acquisition of iron under these conditions is specifically dependent on the exochelin synthesis and uptake pathways  and the strong defect of an iron–exochelin uptake mutant suggests a regulatory role of iron in the transition to biofilm growth. in contrast  although the expression of mycobactin and iron abc transport operons is highly upregulated during biofilm formation  mutants in these systems form normal biofilms in low-iron (2 μm) conditions. a close correlation between iron availability and matrix-associated fatty acids implies a possible metabolic role in the late stages of biofilm maturation  in addition to the early regulatory role. m. smegmatis surface motility is similarly dependent on iron availability  requiring both supplemental iron and the exochelin pathway to acquire it.
2516,expression by oxidized linoleic,hypercholesterolemia is associated with impairments in endothelium-dependent vascular relaxations. paradoxically  endothelial production of nitrogen oxides is increased in early stages of hypercholesterolemia. prior work has shown that oxidized low density lipoprotein (ldl) has both stimulatory and inhibitory effects on endothelial nitric oxide synthase expression (enos) and has focused on lysophosphatidyl choline (lpc) as a component of oxidized ldl which may modulate this effect. another biologically active component of oxidized ldl is 13-hydroperoxyoctadecadienoic acid (13-hpode)  an oxidized form of linoleic acid. the purpose of this study was to determine the effect of hpode on the expression of enos in bovine aortic endothelial cells (baecs). twenty four hour treatment of endothelial cells with hpode caused a dose-dependent increase in enos mrna levels as assessed by northern analysis. the time response studies show that hpode treatment significantly increased enos mrna levels at 12 and 24 h. concomitant with the increase in enos mrna levels  20 microm hpode treatment significantly increased enos protein content and enzyme activity. nuclear run-on studies indicated that the rate of transcription of enos gene was significantly elevated 4 h after hpode treatment when compared to control cultures. also  actinomycin d studies demonstrated that the half-life of enos mrna was increased from 6 h to 12 h by hpode treatment. thus  hpode-induced up-regulation of enos expression is mediated by both transcriptional and posttranscriptional mechanisms. these observations suggest that endothelial cells may attempt to compensate for oxidative injury by increasing expression of enos in early stages of hypercholesterolemia.
2518,pharmacologic inhibition of cyclin-dependent kinases 4 and 6 arrests the growth of glioblastoma multiforme intracranial xenografts.,activation of cyclin-dependent kinases 4 and 6 (cdk4/6) occurs in the majority of glioblastoma multiforme (gbm) tumors  and represents a promising molecular target for the development of small molecule inhibitors. in the current study  we investigated the molecular determinants and in vivo response of diverse gbm cell lines and xenografts to pd-0332991  a cdk4/6-specific inhibitor. in vitro testing of pd-0332991 against a panel of gbm cell lines revealed a potent g(1) cell cycle arrest and induction of senescence in each of 16 retinoblastoma protein (rb)-proficient cell lines regardless of other genetic lesions  whereas 5 cell lines with homozygous inactivation of rb were completely resistant to treatment. short hairpin rna depletion of rb expression conferred resistance of gbm cells to pd-0332991  further demonstrating a requirement of rb for sensitivity to cdk4/6 inhibition. pd-0332991 was found to efficiently cross the blood-brain barrier and proved highly effective in suppressing the growth of intracranial gbm xenograft tumors  including those that had recurred after initial therapy with temozolomide. remarkably  no mice receiving pd-0332991 died as a result of disease progression while on therapy. additionally  the combination of pd-0332991 and radiation therapy resulted in significantly increased survival benefit compared with either therapy alone. in total  our results support clinical trial evaluation of pd-0332991 against newly diagnosed as well as recurrent gbm  and indicate that rb status is the primary determinant of potential benefit from this therapy.
2520,a model for the role of gut bacteria in the development of autoimmunity for type 1 diabetes,several lines of evidence suggest a role for the gut microbiome in type 1 diabetes. treating diabetes-prone rodents with probiotics or antibiotics prevents the development of the disorder. diabetes-prone rodents also have a distinctly different gut microbiome compared with healthy rodents. recent studies in children with a high genetic risk for type 1 diabetes demonstrate significant differences in the gut microbiome between children who develop autoimmunity for the disease and those who remain healthy. however  the differences in microbiome composition between autoimmune and healthy children are not consistent across all studies because of the strong environmental influences on microbiome composition  particularly diet and geography. controlling confounding factors of microbiome composition uncovers bacterial associations with disease. for example  in a human cohort from a single finnish city where geography is confined  a strong association between one dominant bacterial species  bacteroides dorei  and type 1 diabetes was discovered (davis-richardson et al. front microbiol 2014;5:678). beyond this  recent dna methylation analyses suggest that a thorough epigenetic analysis of the gut microbiome may be warranted. these studies suggest a testable model whereby a diet high in fat and gluten and low in resistant starch may be the primary driver of gut dysbiosis. this dysbiosis may cause a lack of butyrate production by gut bacteria  which  in turn  leads to the development of a permeable gut followed by autoimmunity. the bacterial community responsible for these changes in butyrate production may vary around the world  but bacteria of the genus bacteroides are thought to play a key role.
2522,dual regulation of mirna biogenesis generates target specificity in neurotrophin-induced protein synthesis,control of translation is a fundamental source of regulation in gene expression. the induction of protein synthesis by brain-derived neurotrophic factor (bdnf) critically contributes to enduring modifications of synaptic function  but how bdnf selectively affects only a minority of expressed mrnas is poorly understood. we report that bdnf rapidly elevates dicer  increasing mature mirna levels and inducing rna processing bodies in neurons. bdnf also rapidly induces lin28  causing selective loss of lin28-regulated mirnas and a corresponding upregulation in translation of their target mrnas. binding sites for lin28-regulated mirnas are necessary and sufficient to confer bdnf responsiveness to a transcript. lin28 deficiency  or expression of a lin28-resistant let-7 precursor mirna  inhibits bdnf translation specificity and bdnf-dependent dendrite arborization. our data establish that specificity in bdnf-regulated translation depends upon a two-part posttranscriptional control of mirna biogenesis that generally enhances mrna repression in association with gw182 while selectively derepressing and increasing translation of specific mrnas.
2524,emsy overexpression disrupts the brca2/rad51 pathway in the dna-damage response: implications for chromosomal instability/recombination syndromes as checkpoint diseases,emsy links the brca2 pathway to sporadic breast/ovarian cancer. it encodes a nuclear protein that binds to the brca2 n-terminal domain implicated in chromatin/transcription regulation  but when sporadically amplified/overexpressed  increased emsy level represses brca2 transactivation potential and induces chromosomal instability  mimicking the activity of brca2 mutations in the development of hereditary breast/ovarian cancer. in addition to chromatin/transcription regulation  emsy may also play a role in the dna-damage response  suggested by its ability to localize at chromatin sites of dna damage/repair. this implies that emsy overexpression may also repress brca2 in dna-damage replication/checkpoint and recombination/repair  coordinated processes that also require its interacting proteins: palb2  the partner and localizer of brca2; rpa  replication/checkpoint protein a; and rad51  the inseparable recombination/repair enzyme. here  using a well-characterized recombination/repair assay system  we demonstrate that a slight increase in emsy level can indeed repress these two processes independently of transcriptional interference/repression. since emsy  rpa and palb2 all bind to the same brca2 region  these findings further support a scenario wherein: (a) emsy amplification may mimic brca2 deficiency  at least by overriding rpa and palb2  crippling the brca2/rad51 complex at dna-damage and replication/transcription sites; and (b) brca2/rad51 may coordinate these processes by employing at least emsy  palb2 and rpa. we extensively discuss the molecular details of how this can happen to ascertain its implications for a novel recombination mechanism apparently conceived as checkpoint rather than a dna repair system for cell division  survival  death  and human diseases  including the tissue specificity of cancer predisposition  which may renew our thinking about targeted therapy and prevention.
2526,ncbi geo: archive for functional genomics data sets—update,the gene expression omnibus (geo  http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/) is an international public repository for high-throughput microarray and next-generation sequence functional genomic data sets submitted by the research community. the resource supports archiving of raw data  processed data and metadata which are indexed  cross-linked and searchable. all data are freely available for download in a variety of formats. geo also provides several web-based tools and strategies to assist users to query  analyse and visualize data. this article reports current status and recent database developments  including the release of geo2r  an r-based web application that helps users analyse geo data.
2528,the polycomb group protein l3mbtl2 assembles an atypical prc1-family complex that is essential in pluripotent stem cells and early development.,l3mbtl2 has been implicated in transcriptional repression and chromatin compaction but its biological function has not been defined. here we show that disruption of l3mbtl2 results in embryonic lethality with failure of gastrulation. this correlates with compromised proliferation and abnormal differentiation of l3mbtl2(-/-) embryonic stem (es) cells. l3mbtl2 regulates genes by recruiting a polycomb repressive complex1 (prc1)-related complex  resembling the previously described e2f6-complex  and including g9a  hdac1  and ring1b. the presence of l3mbtl2 at target genes is associated with h3k9 dimethylation  low histone acetylation  and h2ak119 ubiquitination  but the latter is neither dependent on l3mbtl2 nor sufficient for repression. genome-wide studies revealed that the l3mbtl2-dependent complex predominantly regulates genes not bound by canonical prc1 and prc2. however  some developmental regulators are repressed by the combined activity of all three complexes. together  we have uncovered a highly selective  essential role for an atypical prc1-family complex in es cells and early development.
2530,drosophila cpeb orb2a mediates memory independent of its rna-binding domain,long-term memory and synaptic plasticity are thought to require the synthesis of new proteins at activated synapses. the cpeb family of rna binding proteins  including drosophila orb2  has been implicated in this process. the precise mechanism by which these molecules regulate memory formation is however poorly understood. we used gene targeting and site-specific transgenesis to specifically modify the endogenous orb2 gene in order to investigate its role in long-term memory formation. we show that the orb2a and orb2b isoforms  while both essential  have distinct functions in memory formation. these two isoforms have common glutamine-rich and rna-binding domains  yet orb2a uniquely requires the former and orb2b the latter. we further show that orb2a induces orb2 complexes in a manner dependent upon both its glutamine-rich region and neuronal activity. we propose that orb2b acts as a conventional cpeb to regulate transport and/or translation of specific mrnas  whereas orb2a acts in an unconventional manner to form stable orb2 complexes that are essential for memory to persist.
2532,human rad52 binds and wraps single-stranded dna and mediates annealing via two hrad52–ssdna complexes,rad52 promotes the annealing of complementary strands of dna bound by replication protein a (rpa) during discrete repair pathways. here  we used a fluorescence resonance energy transfer (fret) between two fluorescent dyes incorporated into dna substrates to probe the mechanism by which human rad52 (hrad52) interacts with and mediates annealing of ssdna-hrpa complexes. human rad52 bound ssdna or ssdna-hrpa complex in two  concentration-dependent modes. at low hrad52 concentrations  ssdna was wrapped around the circumference of the protein ring  while at higher protein concentrations  ssdna was stretched between multiple hrad52 rings. annealing by hrad52 occurred most efficiently when each complementary dna strand or each ssdna-hrpa complex was bound by hrad52 in a wrapped configuration  suggesting homology search and annealing occur via two hrad52-ssdna complexes. in contrast to the wild type protein  hrad52(rqk/aaa) and hrad52(1-212) mutants with impaired ability to bind hrpa protein competed with hrpa for binding to ssdna and failed to counteract hrpa-mediated duplex destabilization highlighting the importance of hrad52-hrpa interactions in promoting efficient dna annealing.
2534,brain organization,transient activation of estrogen receptors (er) in the developing brain during a limited perinatal "window of time" is recognized as a key mechanism of defeminization of neural control of reproductive function and sexual behavior. two major er isoforms  alpha and beta  are present in neural circuits that govern ovarian cycle and sexual behavior. using highly selective er agonists  this study provides the first evidence for distinct contribution of individual er isoforms to the process of estrogen dependent defeminization. neonatal activation of the eralpha in female rats resulted in abrogation of cyclic ovarian activity and female sexual behavior in adulthood. these effects are associated with male-like alterations in the morphology of the anteroventral periventricular (avpv) and sexually dimorphic nucleus of the preoptic area (sdn-poa)  as well as refractoriness to estrogen-mediated induction of sexual receptivity. exposure to an erbeta-selective agonist induced persistent estrus and had a strong defeminizing effect on the hypothalamic gonadotropin "surge generator" avpv. however  neonatal erbeta activation failed to alter female sexual behavior  responsiveness to estrogens and morphometric features of the behaviorally relevant sdn-poa. thus  although co-present in several brain regions involved in the control of female reproductive function  er isoforms convey different  and probably not synergistic  chemical signals in the course of neonatal sex-specific brain organization.
2536,effect of low doses of ionising radiation in infancy on cognitive function in adulthood: swedish population based cohort study.,objective to determine whether exposure to low doses of ionising radiation in infancy affects cognitive function in adulthood. design population based cohort study. setting sweden. participants 3094 men who had received radiation for cutaneous haemangioma before age 18 months during 1930-59. main outcome measures radiation dose to frontal and posterior parts of the brain  and association between dose and intellectual capacity at age 18 or 19 years based on cognitive tests (learning ability  logical reasoning  spatial recognition) and high school attendance. results the proportion of boys who attended high school decreased with increasing doses of radiation to both the frontal and the posterior parts of the brain from about 32% among those not exposed to around 17% in those who received > 250 mgy. for the frontal dose  the multivariate odds ratio was 0.47 (95% confidence interval 0.26 to 0.85  p for trend 0.0003) and for the posterior dose it was 0.59 (0.23 to 1.47  0.0005). a negative dose-response relation was also evident for the three cognitive tests for learning ability and logical reasoning but not for the test of spatial recognition. conclusions low doses of ionising radiation to the brain in infancy influence cognitive abilities in adulthood.
2538,hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome: review of the phenotype,hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome (hgps) is a rare but well known entity characterized by extreme short stature  low body weight  early loss of hair  lipodystrophy  scleroderma  decreased joint mobility  osteolysis  and facial features that resemble aged persons. cardiovascular compromise leads to early demise. cognitive development is normal. data on 10 of our own cases and 132 cases from literature are presented. the incidence in the last century in the netherlands was 1:4 000 000. sex ratio was 1.2:1. main first symptoms were failure to thrive (55%)  hair loss (40%)  skin problems (28%)  and lipodystrophy (20%). mean age at diagnosis was 2.9 years. growth in weight was more disturbed than growth in height  and growth delay started already prenatally. mean height > 13 years was 109.0 cm  mean weight was 14.5 kg. osteolysis was wide-spread but not expressed  except in the viscerocranium  and remained limited to membranous formed bone. lipodystrophy is generalized  only intra-abdominal fat depositions remain present. cardiovascular problems are extremely variable  both in age of onset and nature. stroke and coronary dysfunctioning are most frequent. pathologic findings in coronaries and aorta resemble sometimes the findings in elderly persons  but can also be much more limited. loss of smooth muscle cells seems the most important finding. mean age of demise was 12.6 years. patients can be subdivided in patients with classical hgps  which follows an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance  (almost) all cases representing spontaneous mutations  and in non-classical progeria  in whom growth can be less retarded  scalp hair remains present for a longer time  lipodystrophy is more slowly progressive  osteolysis is more expressed except in the face  and survival well into adulthood is not uncommon. pattern of inheritance of non-classical progeria is most probably autosomal recessive. the cause of hgps is an abnormally formed lamin a  either directly by a mutated lmna gene  or through abnormal posttranslational processing (zmpste24 gene mutations). of 34 lmna mutations found in progeria patients  there were 26 classical p. g608g mutations (76%). pathogenesis is most likely to follow several different pathways. potential therapeutic strategies are developed along these lines and include rna interference techniques and inhibition of the dominant-negative influence of abnormally formed lamin a on polymerization with normally formed lamin a.
2540,in vivo role of er-associated peptidase activity in tailoring peptides for presentation by mhc class ia and class ib molecules,endoplasmic reticulum (er)-associated aminopeptidase (erap)1 has been implicated in the final proteolytic processing of peptides presented by major histocompatibility complex (mhc) class i molecules. to evaluate the in vivo role of erap1  we have generated erap1-deficient mice. cell surface expression of the class ia molecules h-2kb and h-2db and of the class ib molecule qa-2 was significantly reduced in these animals. although cells from mutant animals exhibited reduced capacity to present several self- and foreign antigens to kb-  db-  or qa-1b–restricted cd8+ cytotoxic t cells  presentation of some antigens was unaffected or significantly enhanced. consistent with these findings  mice generated defective cd8+ t cell responses against class i–presented antigens. these findings reveal an important in vivo role of er-associated peptidase activity in tailoring peptides for presentation by mhc class ia and class ib molecules.
2542,identification of secreted proteins that mediate cell-cell interactions in an in vitro model of the lung cancer microenvironment.,non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) cells with somatic mutations in k-ras recruit to the tumor a variety of cell types (hereafter collectively termed "stromal cells") that can promote or inhibit tumorigenesis by mechanisms that have not been fully elucidated. here  we postulated that stromal cells in the tumor microenvironment alter the tumor cell secretome  including those proteins required for tumor growth and dissemination  and we developed an in vitro model to test this hypothesis. coculturing a murine k-ras mutant lung adenocarcinoma cell line (lkr-13) with a murine lung stromal cell (macrophage  endothelial cell  or fibroblast) enhanced stromal cell migration  induced endothelial tube formation  increased lkr-13 cell proliferation  and regulated the secretion of proteins involved in angiogenesis  inflammation  cell proliferation  and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition. among these proteins  cxcl1 has been reported to promote nsclc development  whereas interleukin-18 (il-18) has an undefined role. genetic and pharmacologic strategies to inhibit cxcl1 and il-18 revealed that stromal cell migration  lkr-13 cell proliferation  and lkr-13 cell tumorigenicity required one or both of these proteins. we conclude that stromal cells enhanced lkr-13 cell tumorigenicity partly through their effects on the secretome of lkr-13 cells. strategies to inhibit tumor/stromal cell interactions may be useful as therapeutic approaches in nsclc patients.
2544,variant histone h2a.z is globally localized to the promoters of inactive yeast genes and regulates nucleosome positioning,h2a.z is an evolutionary conserved histone variant involved in transcriptional regulation  antisilencing  silencing  and genome stability. the mechanism(s) by which h2a.z regulates these various biological functions remains poorly defined  in part due to the lack of knowledge regarding its physical location along chromosomes and the bearing it has in regulating chromatin structure. here we mapped h2a.z across the yeast genome at an approximately 300-bp resolution  using chromatin immunoprecipitation combined with tiling microarrays. we have identified 4 862 small regions—typically one or two nucleosomes wide—decorated with h2a.z. those “z loci” are predominantly found within specific nucleosomes in the promoter of inactive genes all across the genome. furthermore  we have shown that h2a.z can regulate nucleosome positioning at the gal1 promoter. within hzad domains  the regions where h2a.z shows an antisilencing function  h2a.z is localized in a wider pattern  suggesting that the variant histone regulates a silencing and transcriptional activation via different mechanisms. our data suggest that the incorporation of h2a.z into specific promoter-bound nucleosomes configures chromatin structure to poise genes for transcriptional activation. the relevance of these findings to higher eukaryotes is discussed.
2546,guidelines for the selection of highly effective sirna sequences for mammalian and chick rna interference.,in the present study  the relationship between short interfering rna (sirna) sequence and rna interference (rnai) effect was extensively analyzed using 62 targets of four exogenous and two endogenous genes and three mammalian and drosophila cells. we present the rules that may govern sirna sequence preference and in accordance with which highly effective sirnas essential for systematic mammalian functional genomics can be readily designed. these rules indicate that sirnas which simultaneously satisfy all four of the following sequence conditions are capable of inducing highly effective gene silencing in mammalian cells: (i) a/u at the 5' end of the antisense strand; (ii) g/c at the 5' end of the sense strand; (iii) at least five a/u residues in the 5' terminal one-third of the antisense strand; and (iv) the absence of any gc stretch of more than 9 nt in length. sirnas opposite in features with respect to the first three conditions give rise to little or no gene silencing in mammalian cells. essentially the same rules for sirna sequence preference were found applicable to dna-based rnai in mammalian cells and in ovo rnai using chick embryos. in contrast to mammalian and chick cells  little sirna sequence preference could be detected in drosophila in vivo rnai.
2548,histone demethylase expression enhances human somatic cell nuclear transfer efficiency and promotes derivation of pluripotent stem cells.,the extremely low efficiency of human embryonic stem cell (hesc) derivation using somatic cell nuclear transfer (scnt) limits its potential application. blastocyst formation from human scnt embryos occurs at a low rate and with only some oocyte donors. we previously showed in mice that reduction of histone h3 lysine 9 trimethylation (h3k9me3) through ectopic expression of the h3k9me3 demethylase kdm4d greatly improves scnt embryo development. here we show that overexpression of a related h3k9me3 demethylase kdm4a improves human scnt  and that  as in mice  h3k9me3 in the human somatic cell genome is an scnt reprogramming barrier. overexpression of kdm4a significantly improves the blastocyst formation rate in human scnt embryos by facilitating transcriptional reprogramming  allowing efficient derivation of scnt-derived escs using adult age-related macular degeneration (amd) patient somatic nuclei donors. this conserved mechanistic insight has potential applications for improving scnt in a variety of contexts  including regenerative medicine.
2550,resonating circadian clocks enhance fitness in cyanobacteria.,in some organisms longevity  growth  and developmental rate are improved when they are maintained on a light/dark cycle  the period of which "resonates" optimally with the period of the endogenous circadian clock. however  to our knowledge no studies have demonstrated that reproductive fitness per se is improved by resonance between the endogenous clock and the environmental cycle. we tested the adaptive significance of circadian programming by measuring the relative fitness under competition between various strains of cyanobacteria expressing different circadian periods. strains that had a circadian period similar to that of the light/dark cycle were favored under competition in a manner that indicates the action of soft selection.
2552,embryonic origin of postnatal neural stem cells,adult neural stem/progenitor (b1) cells within the walls of the lateral ventricles generate different types of neurons for the olfactory bulb (ob). the location of b1 cells determines the types of ob neurons they generate. here we show that the majority of mouse b1 cell precursors are produced between embryonic days (e) 13.5 and 15.5 and remain largely quiescent until they become reactivated postnatally. using a retroviral library carrying over 100 000 genetic tags  we found that b1 cells share a common progenitor with embryonic cells of the cortex  striatum  and septum  but this lineage relationship is lost before e15.5. the regional specification of b1 cells is evident as early as e11.5 and is spatially linked to the production of neurons that populate different areas of the forebrain. this study reveals an early embryonic regional specification of postnatal neural stem cells and the lineage relationship between them and embryonic progenitor cells.
2554,first proposal of minimum information about a cellular assay for regenerative medicine,: advances in stem cell research have triggered scores of studies in regenerative medicine in a large number of institutions and companies around the world. however  reproducibility and data exchange among laboratories or cell banks are constrained by the lack of a standardized format for experiments. to enhance information flow in stem cell and derivative cell research  here we propose a minimum information standard to describe cellular assay data to facilitate practical regenerative medicine. based on the existing minimum information about a cellular assay  we developed minimum information about a cellular assay for regenerative medicine (miacarm)  which allows for the description of advanced cellular experiments with defined taxonomy of human cell types. by using controlled terms  such as ontologies  miacarm will provide a platform for cellular assay data exchange among cell banks or registries that have been established at more than 20 sites in the world. significance currently  there are more than 20 human cell information storage sites around the world. however  reproducibility and data exchange among different laboratories or cell information providers are usually inadequate or nonexistent because of the lack of a standardized format for experiments. this study  which is the fruit of collaborative work by scientists at stem cell banks and cellular information registries worldwide  including those in the u.s.  the u.k.  europe  and japan  proposes new minimum information guidelines  minimum information about a cellular assay for regenerative medicine (miacarm)  for cellular assay data deposition. miacarm is intended to promote data exchange and facilitation of practical regenerative medicine.
2556,prions adhere to soil minerals and remain infectious,an unidentified environmental reservoir of infectivity contributes to the natural transmission of prion diseases (transmissible spongiform encephalopathies [tses]) in sheep  deer  and elk. prion infectivity may enter soil environments via shedding from diseased animals and decomposition of infected carcasses. burial of tse-infected cattle  sheep  and deer as a means of disposal has resulted in unintentional introduction of prions into subsurface environments. we examined the potential for soil to serve as a tse reservoir by studying the interaction of the disease-associated prion protein (prpsc) with common soil minerals. in this study  we demonstrated substantial prpsc adsorption to two clay minerals  quartz  and four whole soil samples. we quantified the prpsc-binding capacities of each mineral. furthermore  we observed that prpsc desorbed from montmorillonite clay was cleaved at an n-terminal site and the interaction between prpsc and mte was strong  making desorption of the protein difficult. despite cleavage and avid binding  prpsc bound to mte remained infectious. results from our study suggest that prpsc released into soil environments may be preserved in a bioavailable form  perpetuating prion disease epizootics and exposing other species to the infectious agent.
2558,a journal of neurology,brain glial cells  five times more prevalent than neurons  have recently received attention for their potential involvement in epileptic seizures. microglia and astrocytes  associated with inflammatory innate immune responses  are responsible for surveillance of brain damage that frequently results in seizures. thus  an intriguing suggestion has been put forward that seizures may be facilitated and perhaps triggered by brain immune responses. indeed  recent evidence strongly implicates innate immune responses in lowering seizure threshold in experimental models of epilepsy  yet  there is no proof that they can play an independent role in initiating seizures in vivo. here  we show that cortical innate immune responses alone produce profound increases of brain excitability resulting in focal seizures. we found that cortical application of lipopolysaccharide  binding to toll-like receptor 4 (tlr4)  triples evoked field potential amplitudes and produces focal epileptiform discharges. these effects are prevented by pre-application of interleukin-1 receptor antagonist. our results demonstrate how the innate immune response may participate in acute seizures  increasing neuronal excitability through interleukin-1 release in response to tlr4 detection of the danger signals associated with infections of the central nervous system and with brain injury. these results suggest an important role of innate immunity in epileptogenesis and focus on glial inhibition  through pharmacological blockade of tlr4 and the pro-inflammatory mediators released by activated glia  in the study and treatment of seizure disorders in humans.
2560,assaying proliferation and differentiation capacity of stem cells using disaggregated adult mouse epidermis,in this protocol  we describe how to isolate keratinocytes from adult mouse epidermis  fractionate them into different sub-populations on the basis of cell surface markers and examine their function in an in vivo skin reconstitution assay with disaggregated neonatal dermal cells. we also describe how the isolated keratinocytes can be subjected to clonal analysis in vitro and in vivo and how to enrich for hair follicle-inducing dermal papilla cells in the dermal preparation. using these approaches  it is possible to compare the capacity of different populations of adult epidermal stem cells to proliferate and to generate progeny that differentiate along the different epidermal lineages. isolating  fractionating and grafting cells for the skin reconstitution assay is normally spread over 2 d. clonal growth in culture is assessed after 14 d  while evaluation of the grafts is carried out after 4–5 weeks.
2562,prediction of coronary artery disease by a systemic atherosclerosis score index derived from whole-body mr angiography,background whole-body magnetic resonance angiography (wb-mra) has shown its potential for the non-invasive assessment of nearly the entire arterial vasculature within one examination. since the presence of extra-cardiac atherosclerosis is associated with an increased risk of coronary events  our goal was to establish the relationship between wb-mra findings  including a systemic atherosclerosis score index  and the presence of significant coronary artery disease (cad). methods wb-mra was performed on a 1.5t scanner in 50 patients scheduled to undergo elective cardiac catheterization for suspected cad. in each patient  40 extra-cardiac vessel segments were evaluated and assigned scores according to their luminal narrowing. the atherosclerosis score index (asi) was generated as the ratio of summed scores to analyzable segments. results asi was higher in patients with significant (> 50% stenosis) cad (n = 27) vs. patients without cad (n = 22; 1.56 vs. 1.28  p = 0.004). asi correlated with procam (r = 0.57  p < 0.001) and framingham (r = 0.36  p = 0.01) risk scores as estimates of the 10-year risk of coronary events. a roc derived asi of > 1.54 predicted significant cad with a sensitivity of 59%  specificity of 86% and a positive predictive value of 84%. logistic regression revealed asi > 1.54 as the strongest independent predictor for cad with a 11-fold increase in likelihood to suffer from significant coronary disease. on the contrary  while 15/27 (55%) of patients with cad exhibited at least one extra-cardiac stenosis > 50%  only 3/22 (14%) of those patients without cad did (p = 0.003). the likelihood for an extra-cardiac stenosis when cad is present differed between vascular territories and ranged from 15% for a carotid stenosis to 44% for a stenosis in the lower extremities. conclusion this study provides important new evidence for the close association of extra-cardiac and coronary atherosclerosis. the novel findings that a wb-mra derived systemic atherosclerosis score index is not only associated with established cardiovascular risk scores but is also predictive of significant cad suggest its potential prognostic implications and underline the importance to screen for coronary disease in patients with extra-cardiac manifestations of atherosclerosis.
2564,liver receptor homolog-1 is essential for pregnancy,successful pregnancy requires coordination of an array of signals and factors from multiple tissues. one such element  liver receptor homolog-1 (lrh-1)  is an orphan nuclear receptor that regulates metabolism and hormone synthesis. it is strongly expressed in granulosa cells of ovarian follicles and in the corpus luteum of rodents and humans. germline ablation of nr5a2 (also called lrh-1)  the gene coding for lrh-1  in mice is embryonically lethal at gastrulation. depletion of lrh-1 in the ovarian follicle shows that it regulates genes required for both steroid synthesis and ovulation. to study the effects of lrh-1 on mouse gestation  we genetically disrupted its expression in the corpus luteum  resulting in luteal insufficiency. hormone replacement permitted embryo implantation but was followed by gestational failure with impaired endometrial decidualization  compromised placental formation  fetal growth retardation and fetal death. lrh-1 is also expressed in the mouse and human endometrium  and in a primary culture of human endometrial stromal cells  reduction of nr5a2 transcript abundance by rna interference abrogated decidualization. these findings show that lrh-1 is necessary for maintenance of the corpus luteum  for promotion of decidualization and for formation of the placenta. it therefore has multiple  indispensible roles in establishing and sustaining pregnancy.
2566,a cxcl1 paracrine network links cancer chemoresistance and metastasis,metastasis and chemoresistance in cancer are linked phenomena  but the molecular basis for this link is unknown. we uncovered a network of paracrine signals between carcinoma  myeloid  and endothelial cells that drives both processes in breast cancer. cancer cells that overexpress cxcl1 and 2 by transcriptional hyperactivation or 4q21 amplification are primed for survival in metastatic sites. cxcl1/2 attract cd11b(+)gr1(+) myeloid cells into the tumor  which produce chemokines including s100a8/9 that enhance cancer cell survival. although chemotherapeutic agents kill cancer cells  these treatments trigger a parallel stromal reaction leading to tnf-α production by endothelial and other stromal cells. tnf-α via nf-kb heightens the cxcl1/2 expression in cancer cells  thus amplifying the cxcl1/2-s100a8/9 loop and causing chemoresistance. cxcr2 blockers break this cycle  augmenting the efficacy of chemotherapy against breast tumors and particularly against metastasis. this network of endothelial-carcinoma-myeloid signaling interactions provides a mechanism linking chemoresistance and metastasis  with opportunities for intervention.
2568,a method of comparing the areas under receiver operating characteristic curves derived from the same cases.,receiver operating characteristic (roc) curves are used to describe and compare the performance of diagnostic technology and diagnostic algorithms. this paper refines the statistical comparison of the areas under two roc curves derived from the same set of patients by taking into account the correlation between the areas that is induced by the paired nature of the data. the correspondence between the area under an roc curve and the wilcoxon statistic is used and underlying gaussian distributions (binormal) are assumed to provide a table that converts the observed correlations in paired ratings of images into a correlation between the two roc areas. this between-area correlation can be used to reduce the standard error (uncertainty) about the observed difference in areas. this correction for pairing  analogous to that used in the paired t-test  can produce a considerable increase in the statistical sensitivity (power) of the comparison. for studies involving multiple readers  this method provides a measure of a component of the sampling variation that is otherwise difficult to obtain.
2570,cenp-b controls centromere formation depending on the chromatin context,the centromere is a chromatin region that serves as the spindle attachment point and directs accurate inheritance of eukaryotic chromosomes during cell divisions. however  the mechanism by which the centromere assembles and stabilizes at a specific genomic region is not clear. the de novo formation of a human/mammalian artificial chromosome (hac/mac) with a functional centromere assembly requires the presence of alpha-satellite dna containing binding motifs for the centromeric cenp-b protein. we demonstrate here that de novo centromere assembly on hac/mac is dependent on cenp-b. in contrast  centromere formation is suppressed in cells expressing cenp-b when alpha-satellite dna was integrated into a chromosomal site. remarkably  on those integration sites cenp-b enhances histone h3-k9 trimethylation and dna methylation  thereby stimulating heterochromatin formation. thus  we propose that cenp-b plays a dual role in centromere formation  ensuring de novo formation on dna lacking a functional centromere but preventing the formation of excess centromeres on chromosomes.
2572,the adverse consequences of unmet need among older persons living in the community: dual-eligible versus medicare-only beneficiaries.,objective our objective is to estimate and compare the prevalence of selected adverse consequences associated with unmet need for assistance among a socioeconomically and medically vulnerable subgroup of the older adult population  those who are dually eligible for medicare and medicaid  with those eligible for medicare only. method using data from the national health and aging trends study (nhats)  a representative survey of the older medicare population  we calculated the prevalence of disability-related need for assistance with self-care  household tasks  and mobility activities and the prevalence of adverse consequences of unmet need by dually eligible and medicare only status. results over 2 million community-dwelling older persons experienced an adverse consequence due to unmet need for assistance with self-care (e.g.  soiled their clothes)  over 2 million experienced adverse consequences due to unmet need for assistance with household tasks (e.g.  went without groceries)  and over 3 million persons experienced at least one adverse consequence of unmet need for assistance with mobility-related activities (e.g.  had to stay in bed) in the month prior to the nhats interview. dually eligible persons experienced higher rates of 6 of the 11 adverse consequences studied and were more likely to have at least one adverse consequence in all 3 domains than others. discussion several care models are emerging with the goal of integrating medical care  behavioral health  and long-term services for the dual eligible population. indicators of adverse consequences of unmet need could be used to monitor the quality and adequacy of such care systems.
2574,functional anatomy of t cell activation and synapse formation.,t cell activation and function require a structured engagement of antigen-presenting cells. these cell contacts are characterized by two distinct dynamics in vivo: transient contacts resulting from promigratory junctions called immunological kinapses or prolonged contacts from stable junctions called immunological synapses. kinapses operate in the steady state to allow referencing to self-peptide-mhc (pmhc) and searching for pathogen-derived pmhc. synapses are induced by t cell receptor (tcr) interactions with agonist pmhc under specific conditions and correlate with robust immune responses that generate effector and memory t cells. high-resolution imaging has revealed that the synapse is highly coordinated  integrating cell adhesion  tcr recognition of pmhc complexes  and an array of activating and inhibitory ligands to promote or prevent t cell signaling. in this review  we examine the molecular components  geometry  and timing underlying kinapses and synapses. we integrate recent molecular and physiological data to provide a synthesis and suggest ways forward.
2576,pf4-cre transgenic mice allow the generation of lineage-restricted gene knockouts for studying megakaryocyte and platelet function in vivo.,to generate transgenic mice that express cre-recombinase exclusively in the megakaryocytic lineage  we modified a mouse bacterial artificial chromosome (bac) clone by homologous recombination and replaced the first exon of the platelet factor 4 (pf4)  also called cxcl4  with a codon-improved cre cdna. several strains expressing the transgene were obtained and one strain  q3  was studied in detail. crossing q3 mice with the rosa26-lacz reporter strain showed that cre-recombinase activity was confined to megakaryocytes. these results were further verified by crossing the q3 mice with a strain containing loxp-flanked integrin beta1. excision of this conditional allele in megakaryocytes was complete at the dna level  and platelets were virtually devoid of the integrin beta1 protein. the pf4-cre transgenic strain will be a valuable tool to study megakaryopoiesis  platelet formation  and platelet function.
2578,why do general practitioners prescribe antibiotics for upper respiratory tract infections to meet patient expectations: a mixed methods study,objectives to describe the role patient expectations play in general practitioners (gps) antibiotic prescribing for upper respiratory tract infections (urti). methods concurrent explanatory mixed methods approach using a cross-sectional survey and semistructured interviews. settings primary care gps in australia. participants 584 gps (response rate of 23.6%) completed the cross-sectional survey. 32 gps were interviewed individually. outcome measure prescribing of antibiotics for urti. results more than half the gp respondents to the survey in australia self-reported that they would prescribe antibiotics for an urti to meet patient expectations. our qualitative findings suggest that 'patient expectations' may be the main reason given for inappropriate prescribing  but it is an all-encompassing phrase that includes other reasons. these include limited time  poor doctor-patient communication and diagnostic uncertainty. we have identified three role archetypes to explain the behaviour of gps in reference to antibiotic prescribing for urtis. the main themes emerging from the qualitative component was that many gps did not think that antibiotic prescribing in primary care was responsible for the development of antibiotic resistance nor that their individual prescribing would make any difference in light of other bigger issues like hospital prescribing or veterinary use. for them  there were negligible negative consequences from their inappropriate prescribing. conclusions there is a need to increase awareness of the scope and magnitude of antibiotic resistance and the role primary care prescribing plays  and of the contribution of individual prescribing decisions to the problem of antibiotic resistance.
2580,effect of duration and intermittency of rifampin on tuberculosis treatment outcomes: a systematic review and meta-analysis,background treatment regimens for active tuberculosis (tb) that are intermittent  or use rifampin during only the initial phase  offer practical advantages  but their efficacy has been questioned. we conducted a systematic review of treatment regimens for active tb  to assess the effect of duration and intermittency of rifampin use on tb treatment outcomes. methods and findings pubmed  embase  and the cochrane central database for clinical trials were searched for randomized controlled trials  published in english  french  or spanish  between 1965 and june 2008. selected studies utilized standardized treatment with rifampin-containing regimens. studies reported bacteriologically confirmed failure and/or relapse in previously untreated patients with bacteriologically confirmed pulmonary tb. pooled cumulative incidences of treatment outcomes and association with risk factors were computed with stratified random effects meta-analyses. meta-regression was performed using a negative binomial regression model. a total of 57 trials with 312 arms and 21 472 participants were included in the analysis. regimens utilizing rifampin only for the first 1-2 mo had significantly higher rates of failure  relapse  and acquired drug resistance  as compared to regimens that used rifampin for 6 mo. this was particularly evident when there was initial drug resistance to isoniazid  streptomycin  or both. on the other hand  there was little evidence of difference in failure or relapse with daily or intermittent schedules of treatment administration  although there was insufficient published evidence of the efficacy of twice-weekly rifampin administration throughout therapy. conclusions tb treatment outcomes were significantly worse with shorter duration of rifampin  or with initial drug resistance to isoniazid and/or streptomycin. treatment outcomes were similar with all intermittent schedules evaluated  but there is insufficient evidence to support administration of treatment twice weekly throughout therapy.
2582,posttranslational acetylation of α-tubulin constrains protofilament number in native microtubules,background microtubules are built from linear polymers of α-β tubulin dimers (protofilaments) that form a tubular quinary structure. microtubules assembled from purified tubulin in vitro contain between 10 and 16 protofilaments; however  such structural polymorphisms are not found in cells. this discrepancy implies that factors other than tubulin constrain microtubule protofilament number  but the nature of these constraints is unknown. results here  we show that acetylation of mec-12 α-tubulin constrains protofilament number in c. elegans touch receptor neurons (trns). whereas the sensory dendrite of wild-type trns is packed with a cross-linked bundle of long  15-protofilament microtubules  mec-17;atat-2 mutants lacking α-tubulin acetyltransferase activity have short microtubules  rampant lattice defects  and variable protofilament number both between and within microtubules. all-atom molecular dynamics simulations suggest a model in which acetylation of lysine 40 promotes the formation of interprotofilament salt bridges  stabilizing lateral interactions between protofilaments and constraining quinary structure to produce stable  structurally uniform microtubules in vivo. conclusions acetylation of α-tubulin is an essential constraint on protofilament number in vivo. we propose a structural model in which this posttranslational modification promotes the formation of lateral salt bridges that fine-tune the association between adjacent protofilaments and enable the formation of uniform microtubule populations in vivo.
2584,local increases in mechanical tension shape compartment boundaries by biasing cell intercalations,mechanical forces play important roles during tissue organization in developing animals. many tissues are organized into adjacent  nonmixing groups of cells termed compartments. boundaries between compartments display a straight morphology and are associated with signaling centers that are important for tissue growth and patterning. local increases in mechanical tension at cell junctions along compartment boundaries have recently been shown to prevent cell mixing and to maintain straight boundaries. the cellular mechanisms by which local increases in mechanical tension prevent cell mixing at compartment boundaries  however  remain poorly understood. here  we have used live imaging and quantitative image analysis to determine cellular dynamics at and near the anteroposterior compartment boundaries of the drosophila pupal abdominal epidermis. we show that cell mixing within compartments involves multiple cell intercalations. frequency and orientation of cell intercalations are unchanged along the compartment boundaries; rather  an asymmetry in the shrinkage of junctions during intercalation is biased  resulting in cell rearrangements that suppress cell mixing. simulations of tissue growth show that local increases in mechanical tension can account for this bias in junctional shrinkage. we conclude that local increases in mechanical tension maintain cell populations separate by influencing junctional rearrangements during cell intercalation.
2586,tumor necrosis factor signaling mediates resistance to mycobacteria by inhibiting bacterial growth and macrophage death.,tumor necrosis factor (tnf)  a key effector in controlling tuberculosis  is thought to exert protection by directing formation of granulomas  organized aggregates of macrophages and other immune cells. loss of tnf signaling causes progression of tuberculosis in humans  and the increased mortality of mycobacterium tuberculosis-infected mice is associated with disorganized necrotic granulomas  although the precise roles of tnf signaling preceding this endpoint remain undefined. we monitored transparent mycobacterium marinum-infected zebrafish live to conduct a stepwise dissection of how tnf signaling operates in mycobacterial pathogenesis. we found that loss of tnf signaling caused increased mortality even when only innate immunity was operant. in the absence of tnf  intracellular bacterial growth and granuloma formation were accelerated and was followed by necrotic death of overladen macrophages and granuloma breakdown. thus  tnf is not required for tuberculous granuloma formation  but maintains granuloma integrity indirectly by restricting mycobacterial growth within macrophages and preventing their necrosis.
2588,cortical dynein controls microtubule dynamics to generate pulling forces that position microtubule asters,dynein at the cortex contributes to microtubule-based positioning processes such as spindle positioning during embryonic cell division and centrosome positioning during fibroblast migration. to investigate how cortical dynein interacts with microtubule ends to generate force and how this functional association impacts positioning  we have reconstituted the 'cortical' interaction between dynein and dynamic microtubule ends in an in vitro system using microfabricated barriers. we show that barrier-attached dynein captures microtubule ends  inhibits growth  and triggers microtubule catastrophes  thereby controlling microtubule length. the subsequent interaction with shrinking microtubule ends generates pulling forces up to several pn. by combining experiments in microchambers with a theoretical description of aster mechanics  we show that dynein-mediated pulling forces lead to the reliable centering of microtubule asters in simple confining geometries. our results demonstrate the intrinsic ability of cortical microtubule-dynein interactions to regulate microtubule dynamics and drive positioning processes in living cells.
2590,perspective: repression of competition and the evolution of cooperation.,repression of competition within groups joins kin selection as the second major force in the history of life shaping the evolution of cooperation. when opportunities for competition against neighbors are limited within groups  individuals can increase their own success only by enhancing the efficiency and productivity of their group. thus  characters that repress competition within groups promote cooperation and enhance group success. leigh first expressed this idea in the context of fair meiosis  in which each chromosome has an equal chance of transmission via gametes. randomized success means that each part of the genome can increase its own success only by enhancing the total number of progeny and thus increasing the success of the group. alexander used this insight about repression of competition in fair meiosis to develop his theories for the evolution of human sociality. alexander argued that human social structures spread when they repress competition within groups and promote successful group-against-group competition. buss introduced a new example with his suggestion that metazoan success depended on repression of competition between cellular lineages. maynard smith synthesized different lines of thought on repression of competition. in this paper  i develop simple mathematical models to illustrate the main processes by which repression of competition evolves. with the concepts made clear  i then explain the history of the idea. i finish by summarizing many new developments in this subject and the most promising lines for future study.
2592,multiple rna surveillance pathways limit aberrant expression of iron uptake mrnas and prevent iron toxicity in s. cerevisiae.,tight regulation of the expression of mrnas encoding iron uptake proteins is essential to control iron homeostasis and avoid intracellular iron toxicity. we show that many mrnas encoding iron uptake or iron mobilization proteins are expressed in iron-replete conditions in the absence of the s. cerevisiae rnase iii ortholog rnt1p or of the nuclear exosome component rrp6p. extended forms of these mrnas accumulate in the absence of rnt1p or of the 5'-->3' exonucleases xrn1p and rat1p  showing that multiple degradative pathways contribute to the surveillance of aberrant forms of these transcripts. rnase iii-deficient cells are hypersensitive to high iron concentrations  suggesting that rnt1p-mediated rna surveillance is required to prevent iron toxicity. these results show that rna surveillance through multiple ribonucleolytic pathways plays a role in iron homeostasis in yeast to avoid the potentially toxic effects of the expression of the iron starvation response in iron-replete conditions.
2594,phylogenetic analysis of mrna polyadenylation sites reveals a role of transposable elements in evolution of the 3′-end of genes,mrna polyadenylation is an essential step for the maturation of almost all eukaryotic mrnas  and is tightly coupled with termination of transcription in defining the 3'-end of genes. large numbers of human and mouse genes harbor alternative polyadenylation sites [poly(a) sites] that lead to mrna variants containing different 3'-untranslated regions (utrs) and/or encoding distinct protein sequences. here  we examined the conservation and divergence of different types of alternative poly(a) sites across human  mouse  rat and chicken. we found that the 3'-most poly(a) sites tend to be more conserved than upstream ones  whereas poly(a) sites located upstream of the 3'-most exon  also termed intronic poly(a) sites  tend to be much less conserved. genes with longer evolutionary history are more likely to have alternative polyadenylation  suggesting gain of poly(a) sites through evolution. we also found that nonconserved poly(a) sites are associated with transposable elements (tes) to a much greater extent than conserved ones  albeit less frequently utilized. different classes of tes have different characteristics in their association with poly(a) sites via exaptation of te sequences into polyadenylation elements. our results establish a conservation pattern for alternative poly(a) sites in several vertebrate species  and indicate that the 3'-end of genes can be dynamically modified by tes through evolution.
2596,serum soluble corin deficiency predicts major disability within 3 months after acute stroke,objective serum soluble corin has been associated with stroke. however  whether it is associated with stroke prognosis has not yet been studied. therefore  we aimed to study the association of serum soluble corin with risk of poor outcomes within 3 months after stroke. methods we followed 522 stroke patients for 3 months to identify major disability  death and vascular events. serum soluble corin was measured at baseline for all participants. logistic regression was used to examine the associations of baseline serum soluble corin with outcomes of stroke  adjusting for age  sex  baseline nihss score  hours from onset to hospitalization  smoking  drinking  hypertension  diabetes  coronary heart disease  atrial fibrillation  family history of stroke  and stroke subtype. results patients with high corin had a significantly lower crude risk for the composite outcome of major disability or death (or = 0.64  95%ci: 0.43-0.96) than patients with low corin (the lowest tertile). after adjustment for age and baseline nihss score  patients with high corin still had a significantly lower risk for the composite outcome of major disability or death (or = 0.60  95%ci: 0.36-0.99). this association became bottom line significant after additionally adjusting for other conventional factors (or = 0.61  p = 0.058). no association was found between serum soluble corin and other composite outcomes. conclusion serum soluble corin deficiency predicted risk for major disability within 3 months after stroke  independent of baseline neurological deficient. our results may indicate a probable role of corin in stroke prognosis.
2598,care seeking for neonatal illness in low- and middle-income countries: a systematic review,background despite recent achievements to reduce child mortality  neonatal deaths continue to remain high  accounting for 41% of all deaths in children under five years of age worldwide  of which over 90% occur in low- and middle-income countries (lmics). infections are a leading cause of death and limitations in care seeking for ill neonates contribute to high mortality rates. as estimates for care-seeking behaviors in lmics have not been studied  this review describes care seeking for neonatal illnesses in lmics  with particular attention to type of care sought. methods and findings we conducted a systematic literature review of studies that reported the proportion of caregivers that sought care for ill or suspected ill neonates in lmics. the initial search yielded 784 studies  of which 22 studies described relevant data from community household surveys  facility-based surveys  and intervention trials. the majority of studies were from south asia (n = 17/22)  set in rural areas (n = 17/22)  and published within the last 4 years (n = 18/22). of the 9 098 neonates who were ill or suspected to be ill  4 320 caregivers sought some type of care  including care from a health facility (n = 370) or provider (n = 1 813). care seeking ranged between 10% and 100% among caregivers with a median of 59%. care seeking from a health care provider yielded a similar range and median  while care seeking at a health care facility ranged between 1% and 100%  with a median of 20%. care-seeking estimates were limited by the few studies conducted in urban settings and regions other than south asia. there was a lack of consistency regarding illness  care-seeking  and care provider definitions. conclusions there is a paucity of data regarding newborn care-seeking behaviors; in south asia  care seeking is low for newborn illness  especially in terms of care sought from health care facilities and medically trained providers. there is a need for representative data to describe care-seeking patterns in different geographic regions and better understand mechanisms to enhance care seeking during this vulnerable time period.
2600,the bloom's syndrome helicase promotes the annealing of complementary single-stranded dna,the product of the gene mutated in bloom's syndrome  blm  is a 3′–5′ dna helicase belonging to the highly conserved recq family. in addition to a conventional dna strand separation activity  blm catalyzes both the disruption of non-b-form dna  such as g-quadruplexes  and the branch migration of holliday junctions. here  we have characterized a new activity for blm: the promotion of single-stranded dna (ssdna) annealing. this activity does not require mg2+  is inhibited by ssdna binding proteins and atp  and is dependent on dna length. through analysis of various truncation mutants of blm  we show that the c-terminal domain is essential for strand annealing and identify a 60 amino acid stretch of this domain as being important for both ssdna binding and strand annealing. we present a model in which the ssdna annealing activity of blm facilitates its role in the processing of dna intermediates that arise during repair of damaged replication forks.
2602,the intersection between aging and cardiovascular disease.,the average lifespan of humans is increasing  and with it the percentage of people entering the 65 and older age group is growing rapidly and will continue to do so in the next 20 years. within this age group  cardiovascular disease will remain the leading cause of death  and the cost associated with treatment will continue to increase. aging is an inevitable part of life and unfortunately poses the largest risk factor for cardiovascular disease. although numerous studies in the cardiovascular field have considered both young and aged humans  there are still many unanswered questions as to how the genetic pathways that regulate aging in model organisms influence cardiovascular aging. likewise  in the molecular biology of aging field  few studies fully assess the role of these aging pathways in cardiovascular health. fortunately  this gap is beginning to close  and these two fields are merging together. we provide an overview of some of the key genes involved in regulating lifespan and health span  including sirtuins  amp-activated protein kinase  mammalian target of rapamycin  and insulin-like growth factor 1 and their roles regulating cardiovascular health. we then discuss a series of review articles that will appear in succession and provide a more comprehensive analysis of studies carried out linking genes of aging and cardiovascular health  and perspectives of future directions of these two intimately linked fields.
2604,a complete landscape of post-transcriptional modifications in mammalian mitochondrial trnas,in mammalian mitochondria  22 species of trnas encoded in mitochondrial dna play crucial roles in the translation of 13 essential subunits of the respiratory chain complexes involved in oxidative phosphorylation. following transcription  mitochondrial trnas are modified by nuclear-encoded trna-modifying enzymes. these modifications are required for the proper functioning of mitochondrial trnas (mt trnas)  and the absence of these modifications can cause pathological consequences. to date  however  the information available about these modifications has been incomplete. to address this issue  we isolated all 22 species of mt trnas from bovine liver and comprehensively determined the post-transcriptional modifications in each trna by mass spectrometry. here  we describe the primary structures with post-transcriptional modifications of seven species of mt trnas which were previously uncharacterized  and provide revised information regarding base modifications in five other mt trnas. in the complete set of bovine mt trnas  we found 15 species of modified nucleosides at 118 positions (7.48% of total bases). this result provides insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying the decoding system in mammalian mitochondria and enables prediction of candidate trna-modifying enzymes responsible for each modification of mt trnas.
2606,relationship between serum parathyroid hormone levels  vitamin d sufficiency  and calcium intake.,context adequate vitamin d status for optimum bone health has received increased recognition in recent years; however  the ideal intake is not known. serum 25-hydroxyvitamin d is the generally accepted indicator of vitamin d status  but no universal reference level has been reached. objective to investigate the relative importance of high calcium intake and serum 25-hydroxyvitamin d for calcium homeostasis  as determined by serum intact parathyroid hormone (pth). design  setting  and participants cross-sectional study of 2310 healthy icelandic adults who were divided equally into 3 age groups (30-45 years  50-65 years  or 70-85 years) and recruited from february 2001 to january 2003. they were administered a semi-quantitative food frequency questionnaire  which assessed vitamin d and calcium intake. participants were further divided into groups according to calcium intake (<800 mg/d  800-1200 mg/d  and >1200 mg/d) and serum 25-hydroxyvitamin d level (<10 ng/ml  10-18 ng/ml  and >18 ng/ml). main outcome measure serum intact pth as determined by calcium intake and vitamin d.   results a total of 944 healthy participants completed all parts of the study. after adjusting for relevant factors  serum pth was lowest in the group with a serum 25-hydroxyvitamin d level of more than 18 ng/ml but highest in the group with a serum 25-hydroxyvitamin d level of less than 10 ng/ml. at the low serum 25-hydroxyvitamin d level (<10 ng/ml)  calcium intake of less than 800 mg/d vs more than 1200 mg/d was significantly associated with higher serum pth (p = .04); and at a calcium intake of more than 1200 mg/d  there was a significant difference between the lowest and highest vitamin d groups (p = .04). conclusions as long as vitamin d status is ensured  calcium intake levels of more than 800 mg/d may be unnecessary for maintaining calcium metabolism. vitamin d supplements are necessary for adequate vitamin d status in northern climates.
2608,nonclassical binding of formylated peptide in crystal structure of the mhc class lb molecule h2-m3,h2-m3 is a class ib mhc molecule of the mouse with a 10(4)-fold preference for binding n-formylated peptides. to elucidate the basis of this unusual specificity  we expressed and crystallized a soluble form of m3 with a formylated nonamer peptide  fmyfiniltl  and determined the structure by x-ray crystallography. m3  refined at 2.1 a resolution  resembles class la mhc molecules in its overall structure  but differs in the peptide-binding groove. the a pocket  which usually accommodates the free n-terminus of a bound peptide  is closed  and the peptide is shifted one residue  such that the p1 side chain is lodged in the b pocket. the formyl group is coordinated by his-9 and a bound water on the floor of the groove.
2610,forebrain engraftment by human glial progenitor cells enhances synaptic plasticity and learning in adult mice.,human astrocytes are larger and more complex than those of infraprimate mammals  suggesting that their role in neural processing has expanded with evolution. to assess the cell-autonomous and species-selective properties of human glia  we engrafted human glial progenitor cells (gpcs) into neonatal immunodeficient mice. upon maturation  the recipient brains exhibited large numbers and high proportions of both human glial progenitors and astrocytes. the engrafted human glia were gap-junction-coupled to host astroglia  yet retained the size and pleomorphism of hominid astroglia  and propagated ca2+ signals 3-fold faster than their hosts. long-term potentiation (ltp) was sharply enhanced in the human glial chimeric mice  as was their learning  as assessed by barnes maze navigation  object-location memory  and both contextual and tone fear conditioning. mice allografted with murine gpcs showed no enhancement of either ltp or learning. these findings indicate that human glia differentially enhance both activity-dependent plasticity and learning in mice.
2612,mechanisms of endocytosis.,endocytic mechanisms control the lipid and protein composition of the plasma membrane  thereby regulating how cells interact with their environments. here  we review what is known about mammalian endocytic mechanisms  with focus on the cellular proteins that control these events. we discuss the well-studied clathrin-mediated endocytic mechanisms and dissect endocytic pathways that proceed independently of clathrin. these clathrin-independent pathways include the clic/geec endocytic pathway  arf6-dependent endocytosis  flotillin-dependent endocytosis  macropinocytosis  circular doral ruffles  phagocytosis  and trans-endocytosis. we also critically review the role of caveolae and caveolin1 in endocytosis. we highlight the roles of lipids  membrane curvature-modulating proteins  small g proteins  actin  and dynamin in endocytic pathways. we discuss the functional relevance of distinct endocytic pathways and emphasize the importance of studying these pathways to understand human disease processes.
2614,lncrna-gas5 induces pten expression through inhibiting mir-103 in endometrial cancer cells,background growth arrest-specific 5 (gas5) was reported to be implicated and aberrantly express in multiple cancers. however  the expression and mechanism of action of gas5 were largely poor understood in endometrial carcinoma. results according to the result of real-time reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (rt-pcr) and flow cytometry analysis  we identified that gas5 was down-regulated in endometrial cancer cells and stimulated the apoptosis of endometrial cancer cells. to investigate the expression of gas5  pten and mir-103  rt-pcr was performed. and we found that the expression of pten was up-regulated when endometrial cancer cells overexpressed gas5. the prediction of bioinformatics online revealed that gas5 could bind to mir-103  which was further found to be regulated by gas5. finally  we found that mir-103 mimic could decrease the mrna and protein levels of pten through luciferase reporter assay and western blotting  and gas5 plasmid may reverse this regulation effect in endometrial cancer cells. conclusion in summary  we demonstrate that gas5 acts as an tumor suppressor lncrna in endometrial cancer. through inhibiting the expression of mir-103  gas5 significantly enhanced the expression of pten to promote cancer cell apoptosis  and  thus  could be an important mediator in the pathogenesis of endometrial cancer.
2616,jagged1-induced notch signaling drives proliferation of multiple myeloma cells.,notch receptors expressed on hematopoietic stem cells interact with their ligands on bone marrow stromal cells and thereby control cell fate decisions and survival. we recently demonstrated that notch signaling is involved in proliferation and survival of b cell-derived tumor cells of classic hodgkin disease and described a novel mechanism for the oncogenic capacity of notch. in this study we investigated whether notch signaling is involved in the tight interactions between neoplastic plasma cells and their bone marrow microenvironment  which are essential for tumor cell growth in multiple myeloma (mm). here we demonstrate that notch receptors and their ligand jagged1 are highly expressed in cultured and primary mm cells  whereas nonneoplastic counterparts show low to undetectable levels of notch. functional data indicate that ligand-induced notch signaling is a growth factor for mm cells and suggest that these interactions contribute to myelomagenesis in vivo.
2618,direct reprogramming of mouse fibroblasts to neural progenitors.,the simple yet powerful technique of induced pluripotency may eventually supply a wide range of differentiated cells for cell therapy and drug development. however  making the appropriate cells via induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs) requires reprogramming of somatic cells and subsequent redifferentiation. given how arduous and lengthy this process can be  we sought to determine whether it might be possible to convert somatic cells into lineage-specific stem/progenitor cells of another germ layer in one step  bypassing the intermediate pluripotent stage. here we show that transient induction of the four reprogramming factors (oct4  sox2  klf4  and c-myc) can efficiently transdifferentiate fibroblasts into functional neural stem/progenitor cells (npcs) with appropriate signaling inputs. compared with induced neurons (or in cells  which are directly converted from fibroblasts)  transdifferentiated npcs have the distinct advantage of being expandable in vitro and retaining the ability to give rise to multiple neuronal subtypes and glial cells. our results provide a unique paradigm for ipsc-factor-based reprogramming by demonstrating that it can be readily modified to serve as a general platform for transdifferentiation.
2620,social variations in access to hospital care for patients with colorectal  breast  and lung cancer between 1999 and 2006: retrospective analysis of hospital episode statistics,objectives to determine the extent to which type of hospital admission (emergency compared with elective) and surgical procedure varied by socioeconomic circumstances  age  sex  and year of admission for colorectal  breast  and lung cancer. design repeated cross sectional study with data from individual patients  1 april 1999 to 31 march 2006. setting hospital episode statistics (hes) dataset. participants 564 821 patients aged 50 and over admitted with a diagnosis of colorectal  breast  or lung cancer. main outcome measures proportion of patients admitted as emergencies  and the proportion receiving the recommended surgical treatment. results patients from deprived areas  older people  and women were more likely to be admitted as emergencies. for example  the adjusted odds ratio for patients with breast cancer in the least compared with most deprived fifth of deprivation was 0.63 (95% confidence interval 0.60 to 0.66) and the adjusted odds ratio for patients with lung cancer aged 80-89 compared with those aged 50-59 was 3.13 (2.93 to 3.34). there were some improvements in disparities between age groups but not for patients living in deprived areas over time. patients from deprived areas were less likely to receive preferred procedures for rectal  breast  and lung cancer. these findings did not improve with time. for example  67.4% (3529/5237) of patients in the most deprived fifth of deprivation had anterior resection for rectal cancer compared with 75.5% (4497/5959) of patients in the least deprived fifth (1.34  1.22 to 1.47). over half (54.0%  11 256/20 849) of patients in the most deprived fifth of deprivation had breast conserving surgery compared with 63.7% (18 445/28 960) of patients in the least deprived fifth (1.21  1.16 to 1.26). men were less likely than women to undergo anterior resection and lung cancer resection and older people were less likely to receive breast conserving surgery and lung cancer resection. for example  the adjusted odds ratio for lung cancer patients aged 80-89 compared with those aged 50-59 was 0.52 (0.46 to 0.59). conclusions despite the implementation of the nhs cancer plan  social factors still strongly influence access to and the provision of care.
2622,astrocyte-mediated distributed plasticity at hypothalamic glutamate synapses,afferent activity can induce fast  feed-forward changes in synaptic efficacy that are synapse specific. using combined electrophysiology  caged molecule photolysis  and ca(2+) imaging  we describe a plasticity in which the recruitment of astrocytes in response to afferent activity causes a fast and feed-forward  yet distributed increase in the amplitude of quantal synaptic currents at multiple glutamate synapses on magnocellular neurosecretory cells in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus. the plasticity is largely multiplicative  consistent with a proportional increase or "scaling" in the strength of all synapses on the neuron. this effect requires a metabotropic glutamate receptor-mediated rise in ca(2+) in the astrocyte processes surrounding the neuron and the release of the gliotransmitter atp  which acts on postsynaptic purinergic receptors. these data provide evidence for a form of distributed synaptic plasticity that is feed-forward  expressed quickly  and mediated by the synaptic activation of neighboring astrocytes.
2624,facilities for macromolecular crystallography at the helmholtz-zentrum berlin,three macromolecular crystallography (mx) beamlines at the helmholtz-zentrum berlin (hzb) are available for the regional  national and international structural biology user community. the state-of-the-art synchrotron beamlines for mx bl14.1  bl14.2 and bl14.3 are located within the low-β section of the bessy ii electron storage ring. all beamlines are fed from a superconducting 7 t wavelength-shifter insertion device. bl14.1 and bl14.2 are energy tunable in the range 5-16 kev  while bl14.3 is a fixed-energy side station operated at 13.8 kev. all three beamlines are equipped with ccd detectors. bl14.1 and bl14.2 are in regular user operation providing about 200 beam days per year and about 600 user shifts to approximately 50 research groups across europe. bl14.3 has initially been used as a test facility and was brought into regular user mode operation during the year 2010. bl14.1 has recently been upgraded with a microdiffractometer including a mini-κ goniometer and an automated sample changer. additional user facilities include office space adjacent to the beamlines  a sample preparation laboratory  a biology laboratory (safety level 1) and high-end computing resources. in this article the instrumentation of the beamlines is described  and a summary of the experimental possibilities of the beamlines and the provided ancillary equipment for the user community is given.
2626,telomeric 3′ overhangs derive from resection by exo1 and apollo and fill-in by pot1b-associated cst,a 3' overhang is critical for the protection and maintenance of mammalian telomeres  but its synthesis must be regulated to avoid excessive resection of the 5' end  which could cause telomere shortening. how this balance is achieved in mammals has not been resolved. here  we determine the mechanism for 3' overhang synthesis in mouse cells by evaluating changes in telomeric overhangs throughout the cell cycle and at leading- and lagging-end telomeres. apollo  a nuclease bound to the shelterin subunit trf2  initiates formation of the 3' overhang at leading-  but not lagging-end telomeres. hyperresection by apollo is blocked at both ends by the shelterin protein pot1b. exo1 extensively resects both telomere ends  generating transient long 3' overhangs in s/g2. cst/aaf  a dna polα.primase accessory factor  binds pot1b and shortens the extended overhangs produced by exo1  likely through fill-in synthesis. 3' overhang formation is thus a multistep  shelterin-controlled process  ensuring functional telomeric overhangs at chromosome ends.
2628,downloaded from,physical activity induces a subclinical inflammatory response  mediated in part by leukocytes  and manifested by elevated concentrations of circulating proinflammatory cytokines  including interleukin (il)-1β  il-6  and tumor necrosis factor-α (tnf-α). however  the source of the cytokines that appear during exercise remains unknown. in this study  we examined exercise-induced changes in plasma cytokine concentrations and their corresponding mrna expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells. ten healthy [peak oxygen uptake = 48.8 ± 6.5 (sd) ml · kg−1 · min−1] but untrained men [age = 25 ± 5 (sd) yr] undertook 3 h of exercise (cycling and inclined walking) at 60–65% peak oxygen uptake. circulating leukocyte subset counts were elevated during and 2 h postexercise but returned to normal within 24 h. plasma concentrations of il-1β  il-6  and tnf-α peaked at the end of exercise and remained elevated at 2 h (il-6) and up to 24 h (il-1β and tnf-α) postexercise. cytokine gene expression in circulating mononucl...
2630,ethnographic study of incidence and severity of intravenous drug errors.,objectives to determine the incidence and clinical importance of errors in the preparation and administration of intravenous drugs and the stages of the process in which errors occur. design prospective ethnographic study using disguised observation. participants nurses who prepared and administered intravenous drugs. setting 10 wards in a teaching and non-teaching hospital in the united kingdom. main outcome measures number  type  and clinical importance of errors. results 249 errors were identified. at least one error occurred in 212 out of 430 intravenous drug doses (49%  95% confidence interval 45% to 54%). three doses (1%) had potentially severe errors  126 (29%) potentially moderate errors  and 83 (19%) potentially minor errors. most errors occurred when giving bolus doses or making up drugs that required multiple step preparation. conclusions the rate of intravenous drug errors was high. although most errors would cause only short term adverse effects  a few could have been serious. a combination of reducing the amount of preparation on the ward  training  and technology to administer slow bolus doses would probably have the greatest effect on error rates.
2632,integrin-linked kinase expression is elevated in human cardiac hypertrophy and induces hypertrophy in transgenic mice.,background although numerous signaling pathways are known to be activated in experimental cardiac hypertrophy  the molecular basis of the hypertrophic response inherent in human heart diseases remains largely unknown. integrin-linked kinase (ilk) is a multifunctional protein kinase that physically links beta-integrins with the actin cytoskeleton  suggesting a potential mechanoreceptor role. methods and results here  we show a marked increase in ilk protein levels in hypertrophic ventricles of patients with congenital and acquired outflow tract obstruction. this increase in ilk was associated with activation of the rho family guanine triphosphatases  rac1 and cdc42  and known hypertrophic signaling kinases  including extracellular signal-related kinases (erk1/2) and p70 s6 kinase. transgenic mice with cardiac-specific expression of a constitutively active ilk (ilk(s343d)) or wild-type ilk (ilk(wt)) exhibited a compensated ventricular hypertrophic phenotype and displayed an activation profile of guanine triphosphatases and downstream protein kinases concordant with that seen in human hypertrophy. in contrast  transgenic mice with cardiomyocyte-restricted expression of a kinase-inactive ilk (ilk(r211a)) were unable to mount a compensatory hypertrophic response to angiotensin ii in vivo. conclusions taken together  these results identify ilk-regulated signaling as a broadly adaptive hypertrophic response mechanism relevant to a wide range of clinical heart disease.
2634,induction of stem-like cells with malignant properties by chronic exposure of human lung epithelial cells to single-walled carbon nanotubes,background carbon nanotubes (cnt) hold great promise to create new and better products for commercial and biomedical applications  but their long-term adverse health effects are a major concern. the objective of this study was to address human lung cancer risks associated with chronic pulmonary exposure to single-walled (sw) cnt through the fundamental understanding of cellular and molecular processes leading to carcinogenesis. we hypothesized that the acquisition of cancer stem cells (csc)  a subpopulation that drive tumor initiation and progression  may contribute to cnt carcinogenesis. methods non-tumorigenic human lung epithelial cells were chronically exposed to well-dispersed swcnt for a period of 6 months at the physiologically relevant concentration of 0.02 μg/cm2 surface area dose. chronic swcnt-exposed cells were evaluated for the presence of csc-like cells under csc-selective conditions of tumor spheres and side population (sp). csc-like cells were isolated using fluorescence-activated cell sorting and were assessed for aggressive behaviors  including acquired apoptosis resistance and increased cell migration and invasion in vitro  and tumor-initiating capability in vivo. non-small cell lung cancer cells served as a positive control. results we demonstrated for the first time the existence of csc-like cells in all clones of chronic swcnt-exposed lung epithelial cells. these csc-like cells  in contrary to their non-csc counterpart  possessed all biological features of lung csc that are central to irreversible malignant transformation  self-renewal  aggressive cancer behaviors  and in vivo tumorigenesis. these cells also displayed aberrant stem cell markers  notably nanog  sox-2  sox-17 and e-cadherin. restored expression of tumor suppressor p53 abrogated csc properties of csc-like cells. furthermore  we identified specific stem cell surface markers cd24low and cd133high that are associated with swcnt-induced csc formation and tumorigenesis. conclusions our findings provide new and compelling evidence for the acquisition of csc-like cells induced by chronic swcnt exposure  which are likely to be a major driving force for swcnt tumorigenesis. thus  our study supports prudent adoption of prevention strategies and implementation of exposure control for swcnt. we also suggest that the detection of csc and associated surface markers may provide an effective screening tool for prediction of the carcinogenic potential of swcnt and related nanoparticles.
2636,activator protein-1 (ap-1) dna binding activity is induced by hydroxyurea in organogenesis stage mouse embryos,hydroxyurea is a potent teratogen; free radical scavengers or antioxidants reduce its teratogenicity. activator protein-1 (ap-1) and nf-kappab are redox-sensitive transcription factors with important roles in normal development and the stress response. this study was designed to determine if exposure to teratogenic doses of hydroxyurea induces oxidative stress and alters gene expression by activating these transcription factors. pregnant mice were treated with saline or hydroxyurea (400  500  or 600 mg/kg) on gestation day 9 (gd 9) and killed either on gd 9  0.5  3  or 6 h after treatment  to assess oxidative stress and transcription factor activities  or on gd 18  to assess fetal development. exposure to 400 mg/kg hydroxyurea did not affect the progeny  whereas exposure to 500 or 600 mg/kg resulted in dose-dependent increases in fetal resorptions and malformations  including curly tails  abnormal limbs (oligodactyly  hemimelia  and amelia)  and short ribs. hydroxyurea did not induce oxidative stress  as assessed by the ratio of oxidized to reduced glutathione  nor did it alter nf-kappab dna binding activity in the gd 9 conceptus. in contrast  exposure to hydroxyurea at any dose increased ap-1 dna binding activity in embryos and yolk sacs 0.5 or 3 h after treatment. hydroxyurea-induced c-fos heterodimer activity in the embryo peaked 3-4-fold above control at 3 h and remained elevated by 6 h; in contrast  the activity of c-jun dimers was not altered by drug exposure. a dramatic and region-specific increase in c-fos immunoreactivity was found in hydroxyurea-treated embryos. the induction of ap-1 dna binding activity by hydroxyurea represents an early  sensitive marker of the embryonic response to insult.
2638,local  efflux-dependent auxin gradients as a common module for plant organ formation,plants  compared to animals  exhibit an amazing adaptability and plasticity in their development. this is largely dependent on the ability of plants to form new organs  such as lateral roots  leaves  and flowers during postembryonic development. organ primordia develop from founder cell populations into organs by coordinated cell division and differentiation. here  we show that organ formation in arabidopsis involves dynamic gradients of the signaling molecule auxin with maxima at the primordia tips. these gradients are mediated by cellular efflux requiring asymmetrically localized pin proteins  which represent a functionally redundant network for auxin distribution in both aerial and underground organs. pin1 polar localization undergoes a dynamic rearrangement  which correlates with establishment of auxin gradients and primordium development. our results suggest that pin-dependent  local auxin gradients represent a common module for formation of all plant organs  regardless of their mature morphology or developmental origin.
2640,viral infection of engrafted human islets leads to diabetes,type 1 diabetes (t1d) is characterized by the destruction of the insulin-producing β-cells of pancreatic islets. genetic and environmental factors both contribute to t1d development. viral infection with enteroviruses is a suspected trigger for t1d  but a causal role remains unproven and controversial. studies in animals are problematic because of species-specific differences in host cell susceptibility and immune responses to candidate viral pathogens such as coxsackievirus b (cvb). in order to resolve the controversial role of viruses in human t1d  we developed a viral infection model in immunodeficient mice bearing human islet grafts. hyperglycemia was induced in mice by specific ablation of native β-cells. human islets  which are naturally susceptible to cvb infection  were transplanted to restore normoglycemia. transplanted mice were infected with cvb4 and monitored for hyperglycemia. forty-seven percent of cvb4-infected mice developed hyperglycemia. human islet grafts from infected mice contained viral rna  expressed viral protein  and had reduced insulin levels compared with grafts from uninfected mice. human-specific gene expression profiles in grafts from infected mice revealed the induction of multiple interferon-stimulated genes. thus  human islets can become severely dysfunctional with diminished insulin production after cvb infection of β-cells  resulting in diabetes.
2642,research in cardiovascular care: a position statement of the council on cardiovascular nursing and allied professionals of the european society of cardiology.,to deliver optimal patient care  evidence-based care is advocated and research is needed to support health care staff of all disciplines in deciding which options to use in their daily practice. due to the increasing complexity of cardiac care across the life span of patients combined with the increasing opportunities and challenges in multidisciplinary research  the science committee of the council on cardiovascular nursing and allied professionals (ccnap) recognised the need for a position statement to guide researchers  policymakers and funding bodies to contribute to the advancement of the body of knowledge that is needed to further improve cardiovascular care. in this paper  knowledge gaps in current research related to cardiovascular patient care are identified  upcoming challenges are explored and recommendations for future research are given.
2644,metagenomic analysis of microbial consortium from natural crude oil that seeps into the marine ecosystem offshore southern california,crude oils can be major contaminants of the marine ecosystem and microorganisms play a significant role in the degradation of its main constituents. to increase our understanding of the microbial hydrocarbon degradation process in the marine ecosystem  we collected crude oil from an active seep area located in the santa barbara channel (sbc) and generated a total of about 52 gb of raw metagenomic sequence data. the assembled data comprised ~500 mb  representing ~1.1 million genes derived primarily from chemolithoautotrophic bacteria. members of oceanospirillales  a bacterial order belonging to the deltaproteobacteria  recruited less than 2% of the assembled genes within the sbc metagenome. in contrast  the microbial community associated with the oil plume that developed in the aftermath of the deepwater horizon (dwh) blowout in 2010  was dominated by oceanospirillales  which comprised more than 60% of the metagenomic data generated from the dwh oil plume. this suggests that oceanospirillales might play a less significant role in the microbially mediated hydrocarbon conversion within the sbc seep oil compared to the dwh plume oil. we hypothesize that this difference results from the sbc oil seep being mostly anaerobic  while the dwh oil plume is aerobic. within the archaea  the phylum euryarchaeota  recruited more than 95% of the assembled archaeal sequences from the sbc oil seep metagenome  with more than 50% of the sequences assigned to members of the orders methanomicrobiales and methanosarcinales. these orders contain organisms capable of anaerobic methanogenesis and methane oxidation (aom) and we hypothesize that these orders - and their metabolic capabilities - may be fundamental to the ecology of the sbc oil seep.
2646,genotoxic stress abrogates renewal of melanocyte stem cells by triggering their differentiation,somatic stem cell depletion due to the accumulation of dna damage has been implicated in the appearance of aging-related phenotypes. hair graying  a typical sign of aging in mammals  is caused by the incomplete maintenance of melanocyte stem cells (mscs) with age. here  we report that irreparable dna damage  as caused by ionizing radiation  abrogates renewal of mscs in mice. surprisingly  the dna-damage response triggers msc differentiation into mature melanocytes in the niche  rather than inducing their apoptosis or senescence. the resulting msc depletion leads to irreversible hair graying. furthermore  deficiency of ataxia-telangiectasia mutated (atm)  a central transducer kinase of the dna-damage response  sensitizes mscs to ectopic differentiation  demonstrating that the kinase protects mscs from their premature differentiation by functioning as a "stemness checkpoint" to maintain the stem cell quality and quantity.
2648,the dna damage machinery and homologous recombination pathway act consecutively to protect human telomeres,telomeres protect chromosome ends from being detected as lesions and from triggering dna damage checkpoints. paradoxically  telomere function depends on checkpoint proteins such as atm and atr  but a molecular model explaining this seemingly contradictory relationship has been missing so far. here we show that the dna damage machinery acts on telomeres in at least two independent steps. first  the atr-dependent machinery is recruited to telomeres before telomere replication is completed  likely in response to single-stranded dna resulting from replication fork stalling. second  after replication  telomeres attract atm and the homologous recombination (hr) machinery. in vivo and in vitro results suggest that the hr machinery is required for formation of a telomere-specific structure at chromosome ends after replication. our results suggest that telomere ends need to be recognized as dna damage to complete end replication and to acquire a structure that is essential for function.
2650,mechanosensitivity in the enteric nervous system,the enteric nervous system (ens) autonomously controls gut muscle activity. mechanosensitive enteric neurons (men) initiate reflex activity by responding to mechanical deformation of the gastrointestinal wall. men throughout the gut primarily respond to compression or stretch rather than to shear force. some men are multimodal as they respond to compression and stretch. depending on the region up to 60% of the entire ens population responds to mechanical stress. men fire action potentials after mechanical stimulation of processes or soma although they are more sensitive to process deformation. there are at least two populations of men based on their sensitivity to different modalities of mechanical stress and on their firing pattern. (1) rapidly  slowly and ultra-slowly adapting neurons which encode compressive forces. (2) ultra-slowly adapting stretch-sensitive neurons encoding tensile forces. rapid adaptation of firing is typically observed after compressive force while slow adaptation or ongoing spike discharge occurs often during tensile stress (stretch). all men have some common properties: they receive synaptic input  are low fidelity mechanoreceptors and are multifunctional in that some serve interneuronal others even motor functions. consequently  men possess processes with mechanosensitive as well as efferent functions. this raises the intriguing hypothesis that men sense and control muscle activity at the same time as servo-feedback loop. the mechanosensitive channel(s) or receptor(s) expressed by the different men populations are unknown. future concepts have to incorporate compressive and tensile-sensitive men into neural circuits that controls muscle activity. they may interact to control various forms of a particular motor pattern or regulate different motor patterns independently from each other.
2652,genome-wide analysis of estrogen receptor binding sites,the estrogen receptor is the master transcriptional regulator of breast cancer phenotype and the archetype of a molecular therapeutic target. we mapped all estrogen receptor and rna polymerase ii binding sites on a genome-wide scale  identifying the authentic cis binding sites and target genes  in breast cancer cells. combining this unique resource with gene expression data demonstrates distinct temporal mechanisms of estrogen-mediated gene regulation  particularly in the case of estrogen-suppressed genes. furthermore  this resource has allowed the identification of cis-regulatory sites in previously unexplored regions of the genome and the cooperating transcription factors underlying estrogen signaling in breast cancer.
2654,serum high-density lipoprotein cholesterol  metabolic profile  and breast cancer risk.,background the prevalence of metabolic syndrome (obesity  glucose intolerance  low serum high-density lipoprotein cholesterol [hdl-c]  high serum triglycerides  hypertension) is high and increasing in parallel with an increasing breast cancer incidence worldwide. hdl-c represents an important aspect of the syndrome  yet its role in breast cancer is still undefined. methods in two population-based screening surveys during 1977-1983 and 1985-1987  serum hdl-c was assayed enzymatically among 38 823 norwegian women aged 17-54 years at entry. height  weight  blood pressure  serum lipids  fat and energy intake  physical activity  parity  oral contraceptive use  hormone therapy use  alcohol intake  and tobacco use were also assessed. we used cox proportional hazards modeling to estimate the relative risk (rr) of breast cancer associated with serum hdl-c levels and to adjust for potential confounding variables. we performed stratified analyses to evaluate effect modification by body mass index (bmi) and menopausal status. all statistical tests were two-sided. results during a median follow-up of 17.2 years  we identified 708 cases of invasive breast cancer. in multivariable analysis  the risk of postmenopausal breast cancer was inversely related to quartile of hdl-c (p(trend) =.02). among women with hdl-c above 1.64 mmol/l (highest quartile) versus below 1.20 mmol/l (lowest quartile)  the relative risk was 0.75 (95% confidence interval [ci] = 0.58 to 0.97). the hdl-c association was confined to women in the heavier subgroup (bmi > or =25 kg/m2)  for whom the relative risk of postmenopausal breast cancer in those with hdl-c above 1.64 mmol/l versus below 1.20 mmol/l was 0.43 (95% ci = 0.28 to 0.67; p(trend)<.001; p(interaction) =.001). conclusion low hdl-c  as part of the metabolic syndrome  is associated with increased postmenopausal breast cancer risk.
2656,exploiting the yeast stress-activated signaling network to inform on stress biology and disease signaling,healthy cells utilize intricate systems to monitor their environment and mount robust responses in the event of cellular stress. whether stress arises from external insults or defects due to mutation and disease  cells must be able to respond precisely to mount the appropriate defenses. multi-faceted stress responses are generally coupled with arrest of growth and cell-cycle progression  which both limits the transmission of damaged materials and serves to reallocate limited cellular resources toward defense. therefore  stress defense versus rapid growth represent competing interests in the cell. how eukaryotic cells set the balance between defense versus proliferation  and in particular knowledge of the regulatory networks that control this decision  are poorly understood. in this perspective  we expand upon our recent work inferring the stress-activated signaling network in budding yeast  which captures pathways controlling stress defense and regulators of growth and cell-cycle progression. we highlight similarities between the yeast and mammalian stress responses and explore how stress-activated signaling networks in yeast can inform on signaling defects in human cancers.
2658,a teratocarcinoma-like human embryonic stem cell (hesc) line and four hesc lines reveal potentially oncogenic genomic changes,the first swiss human embryonic stem cell (hesc) line  ch-es1  has shown features of a malignant cell line. it originated from the only single blastomere that survived cryopreservation of an embryo  and it more closely resembles teratocarcinoma lines than other hesc lines with respect to its abnormal karyotype and its formation of invasive tumors when injected into scid mice. the aim of this study was to characterize the molecular basis of the oncogenicity of ch-es1 cells  we looked for abnormal chromosomal copy number (by array comparative genomic hybridization  acgh) and single nucleotide polymorphisms (snps). to see how unique these changes were  we compared these results to data collected from the 2102ep teratocarcinoma line and four hesc lines (h1  hs293  hs401 and sivf-02) which displayed normal g-banding result. we identified genomic gains and losses in ch-es1  including gains in areas containing several oncogenes. these features are similar to those observed in teratocarcinomas  and this explains the high malignancy. the ch-es1 line was trisomic for chromosomes 1  9  12  17  19  20 and x. also the karyotypically (based on g-banding) normal hesc lines were also found to have several genomic changes that involved genes with known roles in cancer. the largest changes were found in the h1 line at passage number 56  when large 5 mb duplications in chromosomes 1q32.2 and 22q12.2 were detected  but the losses and gains were seen already at passage 22. these changes found in the other lines highlight the importance of assessing the acquisition of genetic changes by hescs before their use in regenerative medicine applications. they also point to the possibility that the acquisition of genetic changes by escs in culture may be used to explore certain aspects of the mechanisms regulating oncogenesis.
2660,noninvasive imaging beyond the diffraction limit of 3d dynamics in thickly fluorescent specimens,optical imaging of the dynamics of living specimens involves tradeoffs between spatial resolution  temporal resolution  and phototoxicity  made more difficult in three dimensions. here  however  we report that rapid three-dimensional (3d) dynamics can be studied beyond the diffraction limit in thick or densely fluorescent living specimens over many time points by combining ultrathin planar illumination produced by scanned bessel beams with super-resolution structured illumination microscopy. we demonstrate in vivo karyotyping of chromosomes during mitosis and identify different dynamics for the actin cytoskeleton at the dorsal and ventral surfaces of fibroblasts. compared to spinning disk confocal microscopy  we demonstrate substantially reduced photodamage when imaging rapid morphological changes in d. discoideum cells  as well as improved contrast and resolution at depth within developing c. elegans embryos. bessel beam structured plane illumination thus promises new insights into complex biological phenomena that require 4d subcellular spatiotemporal detail in either a single or multicellular context.
2662,myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein antibodies are associated with a non-ms course in children,objective to determine whether myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein antibodies (mog-abs) were predictive of a demyelination phenotype in children presenting with acquired demyelinating syndrome (ads). method sixty-five children with a first episode of ads (12 acute disseminated encephalomyelitis  24 optic neuritis  18 transverse myelitis  11 other clinically isolated syndrome) were identified from 2 national demyelination programs in the united kingdom and france. acute serum samples were tested for mog-abs by cell-based assay. antibodies were used to predict diagnosis of multiple sclerosis (ms) at 1 year. results twenty-three of 65 (35%) children had mog-abs. antibody-positive and antibody-negative patients were not clinically different at presentation  but identification of mog-abs predicted a non-ms course at 1-year follow-up: only 2/23 (9%) mog-ab-positive patients were diagnosed with ms compared to 16/42 (38%) mog-ab-negative patients (p = 0.019  fisher exact test). antibody positivity at outset was a useful predictor for a non-ms disease course  with a positive predictive value of 91% (95% confidence interval [ci] 72-99)  negative predictive value of 38% (95% ci 24-54)  positive likelihood ratio of 4.02 (ci 1.0-15.4)  and odds ratio of 6.5 (ci 1.3-31.3). conclusions mog-abs are found at presentation in 35% of patients with childhood ads  across a range of demyelinating disorders. antibody positivity can be useful in predicting a non-ms disease course at onset.
2664,genetic interaction between mutations in c-myb and the kix domains of cbp and p300 affects multiple blood cell lineages and influences both gene activation and repression,adult blood cell production or definitive hematopoiesis requires the transcription factor c-myb. the closely related kat3 histone acetyltransferases cbp (crebbp) and p300 (ep300) bind c-myb through their kix domains and mice homozygous for a p300 kix domain mutation exhibit multiple blood defects. perplexingly  mice homozygous for the same kix domain mutation in cbp have normal blood. here we test the hypothesis that the cbp kix domain contributes subordinately to hematopoiesis via a genetic interaction with c-myb. we assessed hematopoiesis in mice bearing compound mutations of c-myb and/or the kix domains of cbp and p300  and measured the effect of kix domain mutations on c-myb-dependent gene expression. we found that in the context of a p300 kix mutation  the cbp kix domain mutation affects platelets  b cells  t cells  and red cells. gene interaction (epistasis) analysis provides mechanistic evidence that blood defects in kix mutant mice are consistent with reduced c-myb and kix interaction. lastly  we demonstrated that the cbp and p300 kix domains contribute to both c-myb-dependent gene activation and repression. together these results suggest that the kix domains of cbp  and especially p300  are principal mediators of c-myb-dependent gene activation and repression that is required for definitive hematopoiesis.
2666,the association between sterilizing activity and drug distribution into tuberculosis lesions,finding new treatment-shortening antibiotics to improve cure rates and curb the alarming emergence of drug resistance is the major objective of tuberculosis (tb) drug development. using a matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (maldi) mass spectrometry imaging suite in a biosafety containment facility  we show that the key sterilizing drugs rifampicin and pyrazinamide efficiently penetrate the sites of tb infection in lung lesions. rifampicin even accumulates in necrotic caseum  a critical lesion site where persisting tubercle bacilli reside. in contrast  moxifloxacin  which is active in vitro against a subpopulation of mycobacterium tuberculosis that persists in specific niches under drug pressure and has achieved treatment shortening in mice  does not diffuse well in caseum  concordant with its failure to shorten therapy in recent clinical trials. we suggest that such differential spatial distribution and kinetics of accumulation in lesions may create temporal and spatial windows of monotherapy in specific niches  allowing the gradual development of multidrug-resistant tb. we propose an alternative working model to prioritize new antibiotic regimens based on quantitative and spatial distribution of tb drugs in the major lesion types found in human lungs. the finding that lesion penetration may contribute to treatment outcome has wide implications for tb.
2668,a long non-coding rna signature to improve prognosis prediction of colorectal cancer,increasing evidence suggests long non-coding rnas (lncrnas) are frequently aberrantly expressed in cancers  however  few related lncrna signatures have been established for prediction of cancer prognosis. we aimed to develop a lncrna signature to improve prognosis prediction of colorectal cancer (crc). using a lncrna-mining approach  we performed lncrna expression profiling in large crc cohorts from gene expression ominus (geo)  including gse39582 test series(n=436)  internal validation series (n=117); and two independent validation series gse14333 (n=197) and gse17536(n=145). we established a set of six lncrnas that were significantly correlated with the disease free survival (dfs) in the test series. based on this six-lncrna signature  the test series patients could be classified into high-risk and low-risk subgroups with significantly different dfs (hr=2.670; p<0.0001). the prognostic value of this six-lncrna signature was confirmed in the internal validation series and another two independent crc sets. gene set enrichment analysis (gsea) analysis suggested that risk score positively correlated with several cancer metastasis related pathways. functional experiments demonstrated three dysregulated lncrnas  ak123657  bx648207 and bx649059 were required for efficient invasion and proliferation suppression in crc cell lines. our results might provide an efficient classification tool for clinical prognosis evaluation of crc.
2670,vascular calcifying progenitor cells possess bidirectional differentiation potentials,vascular calcification is an advanced feature of atherosclerosis for which no effective therapy is available. to investigate the modulation or reversal of calcification  we identified calcifying progenitor cells and investigated their calcifying/decalcifying potentials. cells from the aortas of mice were sorted into four groups using sca-1 and pdgfrα markers. sca-1(+) (sca-1(+)/pdgfrα(+) and sca-1(+)/pdgfrα(-)) progenitor cells exhibited greater osteoblastic differentiation potentials than sca-1(-) (sca-1(-)/pdgfrα(+) and sca-1(-)/pdgfrα(-)) progenitor cells. among sca-1(+) progenitor populations  sca-1(+)/pdgfrα(-) cells possessed bidirectional differentiation potentials towards both osteoblastic and osteoclastic lineages  whereas sca-1(+)/pdgfrα(+) cells differentiated into an osteoblastic lineage unidirectionally. when treated with a peroxisome proliferator activated receptor γ (pparγ) agonist  sca-1(+)/pdgfrα(-) cells preferentially differentiated into osteoclast-like cells. sca-1(+) progenitor cells in the artery originated from the bone marrow (bm) and could be clonally expanded. vessel-resident bm-derived sca-1(+) calcifying progenitor cells displayed nonhematopoietic  mesenchymal characteristics. to evaluate the modulation of in vivo calcification  we established models of ectopic and atherosclerotic calcification. computed tomography indicated that sca-1(+) progenitor cells increased the volume and calcium scores of ectopic calcification. however  sca-1(+)/pdgfrα(-) cells treated with a pparγ agonist decreased bone formation 2-fold compared with untreated cells. systemic infusion of sca-1(+)/pdgfrα(-) cells into apoe(-/-) mice increased the severity of calcified atherosclerotic plaques. however  sca-1(+)/pdgfrα(-) cells in which pparγ was activated displayed markedly decreased plaque severity. immunofluorescent staining indicated that sca-1(+)/pdgfrα(-) cells mainly expressed osteocalcin; however  activation of pparγ triggered receptor activator for nuclear factor-κb (rank) expression  indicating their bidirectional fate in vivo. these findings suggest that a subtype of bm-derived and vessel-resident progenitor cells offer a therapeutic target for the prevention of vascular calcification and that pparγ activation may be an option to reverse calcification.
2672,matrix metalloproteinase 1 is necessary for the migration of human bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells toward human glioma,human mesenchymal stem cells (mscs) have increasingly been used as cellular vectors for the delivery of therapeutic genes to tumors. however  the precise mechanism of mobilization remains poorly defined. in this study  mscs that expressed similar cell surface markers and exhibited multilineage differentiation potentials were isolated from various donors. interestingly  different msc isolates displayed differential migration ability toward human glioma cells. we hypothesized that distinct molecular signals may be involved in the varied tumor tropisms exhibited by different msc isolates. to test this hypothesis  gene expression profiles of tumor-trophic mscs were compared with those of non-tumor-trophic mscs. among the various differentially regulated genes  matrix metalloproteinase one (mmp1) gene expression and its protein activities were enhanced by 27-fold and 21-fold  respectively  in highly migrating mscs compared with poorly migrating mscs. by contrast  there was no change in the transcriptional levels of other mmps. functional inactivation of mmp1 abrogated the migratory potential of mscs toward glioma-conditioned medium. conversely  the nonmigratory phenotype of poorly migrating msc could be rescued in the presence of either recombinant mmp1 or conditioned medium from the highly migrating mscs. ectopic expression of mmp1 in these poorly migrating cells also rendered the cells responsive to the signaling cues from the glioma cells in vivo. however  blocking the interaction of mmp1 and its cognate receptor par1 effectively diminished the migratory ability of mscs. taken together  this study provides  for the first time  supporting evidence that mmp1 is critically involved in the migration capacity of mscs  acting through the mmp1/par1 axis.
2674,inflammasome-induced il-1β secretion in microglia is characterized by delayed kinetics and is only partially dependent on inflammatory caspases.,inflammasomes are multiprotein complexes that link pathogen recognition and cellular stress to the processing of the proinflammatory cytokine interleukin-1β (il-1β). whereas inflammasome-mediated activation is heavily studied in hematopoietic macrophages and dendritic cells  much less is known about microglia  resident tissue macrophages of the brain that originate from a distinct progenitor. to directly compare inflammasome-mediated activation in different types of macrophages  we isolated primary microglia and hematopoietic macrophages from adult  healthy rhesus macaques. we analyzed the expression profile of nod (nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain)-like receptors  adaptor proteins  and caspases and characterized inflammasome activation and regulation in detail. we here demonstrate that primary microglia can respond to the same innate stimuli as hematopoietic macrophages. however  microglial responses are more persistent due to lack of negative regulation on pro-il-1β expression. in addition  we show that while caspase 1  4  and 5 activation is pivotal for inflammasome-induced il-1β secretion by hematopoietic macrophages  microglial secretion of il-1β is only partially dependent on these inflammatory caspases. these results identify key cell type-specific differences that may aid the development of strategies to modulate innate immune responses in the brain.
2676,another barrier to regeneration in the cns: activated macrophages induce extensive retraction of dystrophic axons through direct physical interactions,injured axons of the adult cns undergo lengthy retraction from the initial site of axotomy after spinal cord injury. macrophage infiltration correlates spatiotemporally with this deleterious phenomenon  but the direct involvement of these inflammatory cells has not been demonstrated. in the present study  we examined the role of macrophages in axonal retraction within the dorsal columns after spinal cord injury in vivo and found that retraction occurred between days 2 and 28 after lesion and that the ends of injured axons were associated with ed-1+ cells. clodronate liposome-mediated depletion of infiltrating macrophages resulted in a significant reduction in axonal retraction; however  we saw no evidence of regeneration. we used time-lapse imaging of adult dorsal root ganglion neurons in an in vitro model of the glial scar to examine macrophage-axon interactions and observed that adhesive contacts and considerable physical interplay between macrophages and dystrophic axons led to extensive axonal retraction. the induction of retraction was dependent on both the growth state of the axon and the activation state of the macrophage. only dystrophic adult axons were susceptible to macrophage "attack. " unlike intrinsically active cell line macrophages  both primary macrophages and microglia required activation to induce axonal retraction. contact with astrocytes had no deleterious effect on adult dystrophic axons  suggesting that the induction of extensive retraction was specific to phagocytic cells. our data are the first to indicate a direct role of activated macrophages in axonal retraction by physical cell-cell interactions with injured axons.
2678,corresponding author:,in higher eukaryotes  introns are spliced out of protein-coding mrnas by the spliceosome  a massive complex comprising five non-coding rnas (ncrnas) and about 200 proteins. by comparing the differences between spliceosomal proteins from many basal eukaryotic lineages  it is possible to infer properties of the splicing system in the last common ancestor of extant eukaryotes  the eukaryotic ancestor. we begin with the hypothesis that  similar to intron length (that appears to have increased in multicellular eukaryotes)  the spliceosome has increased in complexity throughout eukaryotic evolution. however  examination of the distribution of spliceosomal components indicates that not only was a spliceosome present in the eukaryotic ancestor but it also contained most of the key components found in today's eukaryotes. all the small nuclear ribonucleoproteins (snrnps) protein components are likely to have been present  as well as many splicing-related proteins. both major and trans-splicing are likely to have been present  and the spliceosome had already formed links with other cellular processes such as transcription and capping. however  there is no evidence as yet to suggest that minor (u12-dependent) splicing was present in the eukaryotic ancestor. although the last common ancestor of extant eukaryotes appears to show much of the molecular complexity seen today  we do not  from this work  infer anything of the properties of the earlier "first eukaryote. "
2680,multicolor “diolistic” labeling of the nervous system using lipophilic dye combinations,we describe a technique for rapid labeling of a large number of cells in the nervous system with many different colors. by delivering lipophilic dye-coated particles to neuronal preparations with a "gene gun " individual neurons and glia whose membranes are contacted by the particles are quickly labeled. using particles that are each coated with different combinations of various lipophilic dyes  many cells within a complex neuronal network can be simultaneously labeled with a wide variety of colors. this approach is most effective in living material but also labels previously fixed material. in living material  labeled neurons continue to show normal synaptic responses and undergo dendritic remodeling. this technique is thus useful for studying structural plasticity of neuronal circuits in living preparations. in addition  the golgi-like labeling of neurons with many different colors provides a novel way to study neuronal connectivity.
2682,evidence that embryonic neurons regulate the onset of cortical gliogenesis via cardiotrophin-1,precursor cells of the embryonic cortex sequentially generate neurons and then glial cells  but the mechanisms regulating this neurogenic-to-gliogenic transition are unclear. using cortical precursor cultures  which temporally mimic this in vivo differentiation pattern  we demonstrate that cortical neurons synthesize and secrete the neurotrophic cytokine cardiotrophin-1  which activates the gp130-jak-stat pathway and is essential for the timed genesis of astrocytes in vitro. our data indicate that a similar phenomenon also occurs in vivo. in utero electroporation of neurotrophic cytokines in the environment of embryonic cortical precursors causes premature gliogenesis  while acute perturbation of gp130 in cortical precursors delays the normal timed appearance of astrocytes. moreover  the neonatal cardiotrophin-1-/- cortex contains fewer astrocytes. together  these results describe a neural feedback mechanism; newly born neurons produce cardiotrophin-1  which instructs multipotent cortical precursors to generate astrocytes  thereby ensuring that gliogenesis does not occur until neurogenesis is largely complete.
2684,effect on the quality of peer review of blinding reviewers and asking them to sign their reports: a randomized controlled trial.,context anxiety about bias  lack of accountability  and poor quality of peer review has led to questions about the imbalance in anonymity between reviewers and authors. objective to evaluate the effect on the quality of peer review of blinding reviewers to the authors' identities and requiring reviewers to sign their reports. design randomized controlled trial. setting a general medical journal. participants a total of 420 reviewers from the journal's database. intervention we modified a paper accepted for publication introducing 8 areas of weakness. reviewers were randomly allocated to 5 groups. groups 1 and 2 received manuscripts from which the authors' names and affiliations had been removed  while groups 3 and 4 were aware of the authors' identities. groups 1 and 3 were asked to sign their reports  while groups 2 and 4 were asked to return their reports unsigned. the fifth group was sent the paper in the usual manner of the journal  with authors' identities revealed and a request to comment anonymously. group 5 differed from group 4 only in that its members were unaware that they were taking part in a study. main outcome measure the number of weaknesses in the paper that were commented on by the reviewers. results reports were received from 221 reviewers (53%). the mean number of weaknesses commented on was 2 (1.7  2.1  1.8  and 1.9 for groups 1  2  3  and 4 and 5 combined  respectively). there were no statistically significant differences between groups in their performance. reviewers who were blinded to authors' dentities were less likely to recommend rejection than those who were aware of the authors' identities (odds ratio  0.5; 95% confidence interval  0.3-1.0). conclusions neither blinding reviewers to the authors and origin of the paper nor requiring them to sign their reports had any effect on rate of detection of errors. such measures are unlikely to improve the quality of peer review reports.
2686,cell stem cell article in vivo fate analysis reveals the multipotent and self-renewal capacities of sox2 + neural stem cells in the adult hippocampus,to characterize the properties of adult neural stem cells (nscs)  we generated and analyzed sox2-gfp transgenic mice. sox2-gfp cells in the subgranular zone (sgz) express markers specific for progenitors  but they represent two morphologically distinct populations that differ in proliferation levels. lentivirus- and retrovirus-mediated fate-tracing studies showed that sox2+ cells in the sgz have potential to give rise to neurons and astrocytes  revealing their multipotency at the population as well as at a single-cell level. a subpopulation of sox2+ cells gives rise to cells that retain sox2  highlighting sox2+ cells as a primary source for adult nscs. in response to mitotic signals  increased proliferation of sox2+ cells is coupled with the generation of sox2+ nscs as well as neuronal precursors. an asymmetric contribution of sox2+ nscs may play an important role in maintaining the constant size of the nsc pool and producing newly born neurons during adult neurogenesis.
2688,endocytic trafficking of rac is required for the spatial restriction of signaling in cell migration,the small gtpases  rab5 and rac  are essential for endocytosis and actin remodeling  respectively. coordination of these processes is critical to achieve spatial restriction of intracellular signaling  which is essential for a variety of polarized functions. here  we show that clathrin- and rab5-mediated endocytosis are required for the activation of rac induced by motogenic stimuli. rac activation occurs on early endosomes  where the racgef tiam1 is also recruited. subsequent recycling of rac to the plasma membrane ensures localized signaling  leading to the formation of actin-based migratory protrusions. thus  membrane trafficking of rac is required for the spatial resolution of rac-dependent motogenic signals. we further demonstrate that a rab5-to-rac circuitry controls the morphology of motile mammalian tumor cells and primordial germinal cells during zebrafish development  suggesting that this circuitry is relevant for the regulation of migratory programs in various cells  in both in vitro settings and whole organisms.
2690,current knowledge and future directions of tlr and nod signaling in sepsis,the incidence of sepsis is increasing over time  along with an increased risk of dying from the condition. sepsis care costs billions annually in the united states. death from sepsis is understood to be a complex process  driven by a lack of normal immune homeostatic functions and excessive production of proinflammatory cytokines  which leads to multi-organ failure. the toll-like receptor (tlr) family  one of whose members was initially discovered in drosophila  performs an important role in the recognition of microbial pathogens. these pattern recognition receptors (prrs)  upon sensing invading microorganisms  activate intracellular signal transduction pathways. nod signaling is also involved in the recognition of bacteria and acts synergistically with the tlr family in initiating an efficient immune response for the eradication of invading microbial pathogens. tlrs and nod1/nod2 respond to different pathogen-associated molecular patterns (pamps). modulation of both tlr and nod signaling is an area of research that has prompted much excitement and debate as a therapeutic strategy in the management of sepsis. molecules targeting tlr and nod signaling pathways exist but regrettably thus far none have proven efficacy from clinical trials.
2692,odorant-specific adaptation pathways generate olfactory plasticity in c. elegans,following prolonged exposure to an odorant  c. elegans exhibits a diminished response to the odorant for several hours. this olfactory adaptation is odorant selective; animals can adapt independently to different odorants sensed by a single pair of olfactory neurons  the awc neurons. the mechanism of olfactory adaptation is genetically complex  with different genes required for adaptation to different odorants. animals mutant for the gene adp-1 fail to adapt to a subset of awc-sensed odorants; adp-1 affects a calcium-dependent process required for adaptation. mutations in another gene  osm-9  affect adaptation to a different but overlapping subset of awc-sensed odorants. mutations in adp-1 and osm-9 do not diminish the ability of unadapted animals to respond to odorants  indicating that odorant sensation and odorant adaptation are distinct processes.
2694,stable partnership and progression to aids or death in hiv infected patients receiving highly active antiretroviral therapy: swiss hiv cohort study.,objectives to explore the association between a stable partnership and clinical outcome in hiv infected patients receiving highly active antiretroviral therapy (haart). design prospective cohort study of adults with hiv (swiss hiv cohort study). setting seven outpatient clinics throughout switzerland. participants the 3736 patients in the cohort who started haart before 2002 (median age 36 years  29% female  median follow up 3.6 years). main outcome measures time to aids or death (primary endpoint)  death alone  increases in cd4 cell count of at least 50 and 100 above baseline  optimal viral suppression (a viral load below 400 copies/ml)  and viral rebound. results during follow up 2985 (80%) participants reported a stable partnership on at least one occasion. when starting haart  52% (545/1042) of participants reported a stable partnership; after five years of follow up 46% (190/412) of participants reported a stable partnership. in an analysis stratified by previous antiretroviral therapy and clinical stage when starting haart (us centers for disease control and prevention group a  b  or c)  the adjusted hazard ratio for progression to aids or death was 0.79 (95% confidence interval 0.63 to 0.98) for participants with a stable partnership compared with those without. adjusted hazards ratios for other endpoints were 0.59 (0.44 to 0.79) for progression to death  1.15 (1.06 to 1.24) for an increase in cd4 cells of 100 counts/microl or more  and 1.06 (0.98 to 1.14) for optimal viral suppression. conclusions a stable partnership is associated with a slower rate of progression to aids or death in hiv infected patients receiving haart.
2696,common brca1 variants and susceptibility to breast and ovarian cancer in the general population.,most multiple case families of young onset breast cancer and ovarian cancer are thought to be due to highly penetrant mutations in the predisposing genes brca1 and brca2. however  these mutations are uncommon in the population and they probably account for only a few percent of all breast cancer incidence. a much larger fraction of breast cancer might  in principle  be due to common variants which confer more modest individual risks. there are several common polymorphisms in the brca1 gene which generate amino acid substitutions. we have examined the frequency of four of these polymorphisms: gln356arg  pro871leu  glu1038gly and ser1613gly in large series of breast and ovarian cancer cases and matched controls. due to strong linkage disequilibrium  these four sites generate only three haplotypes with a frequency > 1.3%. the most common haplotypes  defined by the alleles gln356pro871glu1038ser1613 and gln356leu871gly1038gly1613  have frequencies of 0.57 and 0.32 respectively  and these frequencies do not differ significantly between patient and control groups. thus the most common polymorphisms of the brca1 gene do not make a significant contribution to breast or ovarian cancer risk. however  our data suggest that the arg356 allele may have a different genotype distribution in breast cancer patients from that in controls (arg356 homozygotes are more frequent in the control groups  p = 0.01)  indicating that it may be protective against breast cancer. if this finding can be confirmed  it may provide an insight into the structural features of the brca1 protein that are important for its function.
2698,ballistic labeling and dynamic imaging of astrocytes in organotypic hippocampal slice cultures,protoplasmic astrocytes in mammalian cns tissues in vivo have a highly complex 3d morphology  but in dissociated cell cultures they often assume a flattened  fibroblast-like morphology bearing only a few  simple processes. by fluorescent labeling and confocal reconstruction we show that many astrocytes in organotypic hippocampal slice cultures exhibit a more native complex cytoarchitecture. although astrocytes at the surface of slice cultures show a reactive form with several thick glial fibrillary acidic protein (gfap)-positive processes  astrocytes situated in deeper portions of tissue slices retain a highly complex 3d morphology with many fine spine- or veil-like protrusions. dozens of astrocytes can be labeled in single slice cultures by gene gun-mediated ballistic delivery of gold or tungsten particles carrying cdnas (biolistics)  lipophilic dyes (diolistics)  or fluorescent intracellular calcium indicators (calistics). expression of a membrane-targeted form of egfp (lck-gfp) is superior to soluble egfp for resolving fine astrocytic processes. time-lapse confocal imaging of lck-gfp transfected astrocytes or "calistically" labeled astrocytes show structural remodeling and calcium transients  respectively. this approach provides an in vitro system for investigating the functional architecture  development and dynamic remodeling of astrocytes and their relationships to neurons and glia in live mammalian brain tissues.
2700,erbb4-neuregulin signaling modulates synapse development and dendritic arborization through distinct mechanisms.,perturbations in neuregulin-1 (nrg1)/erbb4 function have been associated with schizophrenia. affected patients exhibit altered levels of these proteins and display hypofunction of glutamatergic synapses as well as altered neuronal circuitry. however  the role of nrg1/erbb4 in regulating synapse maturation and neuronal process formation has not been extensively examined. here we demonstrate that erbb4 is expressed in inhibitory interneurons at both excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic sites. overexpression of erbb4 postsynaptically enhances size but not number of presynaptic inputs. conversely  knockdown of erbb4 using shrna decreases the size of presynaptic inputs  demonstrating a specific role for endogenous erbb4 in synapse maturation. using erbb4 mutant constructs  we demonstrate that erbb4-mediated synapse maturation requires its extracellular domain  whereas its tyrosine kinase activity is dispensable for this process. we also demonstrate that depletion of erbb4 decreases the number of primary neurites and that stimulation of erbb4 using a soluble form of nrg1 results in exuberant dendritic arborization through activation of the tyrosine kinase domain of erbb4 and the phosphoinositide 3-kinase pathway. these findings demonstrate that nrg1/erbb4 signaling differentially regulates synapse maturation and dendritic morphology via two distinct mechanisms involving trans-synaptic signaling and tyrosine kinase activity  respectively.
2702,association between smoking and risk of bladder cancer among men and women.,context previous studies indicate that the population attributable risk (par) of bladder cancer for tobacco smoking is 50% to 65% in men and 20% to 30% in women and that current cigarette smoking triples bladder cancer risk relative to never smoking. during the last 30 years  incidence rates have remained stable in the united states in men (123.8 per 100 000 person-years to 142.2 per 100 000 person-years) and women (32.5 per 100 000 person-years to 33.2 per 100 000 person-years); however  changing smoking prevalence and cigarette composition warrant revisiting risk estimates for smoking and bladder cancer. objective to evaluate the association between tobacco smoking and bladder cancer. design  setting  and participants men (n = 281 394) and women (n = 186 134) of the national institutes of health-aarp (nih-aarp) diet and health study cohort completed a lifestyle questionnaire and were followed up between october 25  1995  and december 31  2006. previous prospective cohort studies of smoking and incident bladder cancer were identified by systematic review and relative risks were estimated from fixed-effects models with heterogeneity assessed by the i(2) statistic. main outcome measures hazard ratios (hrs)  pars  and number needed to harm (nnh). results during 4 518 941 person-years of follow-up  incident bladder cancer occurred in 3896 men (144.0 per 100 000 person-years) and 627 women (34.5 per 100 000 person-years). former smokers (119.8 per 100 000 person-years; hr  2.22; 95% confidence interval [ci]  2.03-2.44; nnh  1250) and current smokers (177.3 per 100 000 person-years; hr  4.06; 95% ci  3.66-4.50; nnh  727) had higher risks of bladder cancer than never smokers (39.8 per 100 000 person-years). in contrast  the summary risk estimate for current smoking in 7 previous studies (initiated between 1963 and 1987) was 2.94 (95% ci  2.45-3.54; i(2) = 0.0%). the par for ever smoking in our study was 0.50 (95% ci  0.45-0.54) in men and 0.52 (95% ci  0.45-0.59) in women. conclusion compared with a pooled estimate of us data from cohorts initiated between 1963 and 1987  relative risks for smoking in the more recent nih-aarp diet and health study cohort were higher  with pars for women comparable with those for men.
2704,metabolic phenotyping of human blood plasma: a powerful tool to discriminate between cancer types?,background accumulating evidence has shown that cancer cell metabolism differs from that of normal cells. however  up to now it is not clear whether different cancer types are characterized by a specific metabolite profile. therefore  this study aims to evaluate whether the plasma metabolic phenotype allows to discriminate between lung and breast cancer. patients and methods the proton nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum of plasma is divided into 110 integration regions  representing the metabolic phenotype. these integration regions reflect the relative metabolite concentrations and were used to train a classification model in discriminating between 80 female breast cancer patients and 54 female lung cancer patients  all with an adenocarcinoma. the validity of the model was examined by permutation testing and by classifying an independent validation cohort of 60 female breast cancer patients and 81 male lung cancer patients  all with an adenocarcinoma. results the model allows to classify 99% of the breast cancer patients and 93% of the lung cancer patients correctly with an area under the curve (auc) of 0.96 and can be validated in the independent cohort with a sensitivity of 89%  a specificity of 82% and an auc of 0.94. decreased levels of sphingomyelin and phosphatidylcholine (phospholipids with choline head group) and phospholipids with short  unsaturated fatty acid chains next to increased levels of phospholipids with long  saturated fatty acid chains seem to indicate that cell membranes of lung tumors are more rigid and less sensitive to lipid peroxidation. the other discriminating metabolites are pointing to a more pronounced response of the body to the warburg effect for lung cancer. conclusion metabolic phenotyping of plasma allows to discriminate between lung and breast cancer  indicating that the metabolite profile reflects more than a general cancer marker. clinical trial registration number nct02362776.
2706,multiple archaeal groups mediate methane oxidation in anoxic cold seep sediments.,no microorganism capable of anaerobic growth on methane as the sole carbon source has yet been cultivated. consequently  information about these microbes has been inferred from geochemical and microbiological observations of field samples. stable isotope analysis of lipid biomarkers and rrna gene surveys have implicated specific microbes in the anaerobic oxidation of methane (aom). here we use combined fluorescent in situ hybridization and secondary ion mass spectrometry analyses  to identify anaerobic methanotrophs in marine methane-seep sediments. the results provide direct evidence for the involvement of at least two distinct archaeal groups (anme-1 and anme-2) in aom at methane seeps. although both archaeal groups often occurred in direct physical association with bacteria  they also were observed as monospecific aggregations and as single cells. the anme-1 archaeal group more frequently existed in monospecific aggregations or as single filaments  apparently without a bacterial partner. bacteria associated with both archaeal groups included  but were not limited to  close relatives of desulfosarcina species. isotopic analyses suggest that monospecific archaeal cells and cell aggregates were active in anaerobic methanotrophy  as were multispecies consortia. in total  the data indicate that the microbial species and biotic interactions mediating anaerobic methanotrophy are diverse and complex. the data also clearly show that highly structured anme-2/desulfosarcina consortia are not the sole entities responsible for aom at marine methane seeps. other microbial groups  including anme-1 archaea  are capable of anaerobic methane consumption either as single cells  in monospecific aggregates  or in multispecies consortia.
2708,role of fascin in filopodial protrusion,in this study  the mechanisms of actin-bundling in filopodia were examined. analysis of cellular localization of known actin cross-linking proteins in mouse melanoma b16f1 cells revealed that fascin was specifically localized along the entire length of all filopodia  whereas other actin cross-linkers were not. rna interference of fascin reduced the number of filopodia  and remaining filopodia had abnormal morphology with wavy and loosely bundled actin organization. dephosphorylation of serine 39 likely determined cellular filopodia frequency. the constitutively active fascin mutant s39a increased the number and length of filopodia  whereas the inactive fascin mutant s39e reduced filopodia frequency. fluorescence recovery after photobleaching of gfp-tagged wild-type and s39a fascin showed that dephosphorylated fascin underwent rapid cycles of association to and dissociation from actin filaments in filopodia  with t1/2 < 10 s. we propose that fascin is a key specific actin cross-linker  providing stiffness for filopodial bundles  and that its dynamic behavior allows for efficient coordination between elongation and bundling of filopodial actin filaments.
2710,self-organization of the escherichia coli chemotaxis network imaged with super-resolution light microscopy,the escherichia coli chemotaxis network is a model system for biological signal processing. in e. coli  transmembrane receptors responsible for signal transduction assemble into large clusters containing several thousand proteins. these sensory clusters have been observed at cell poles and future division sites. despite extensive study  it remains unclear how chemotaxis clusters form  what controls cluster size and density  and how the cellular location of clusters is robustly maintained in growing and dividing cells. here  we use photoactivated localization microscopy (palm) to map the cellular locations of three proteins central to bacterial chemotaxis (the tar receptor  chey  and chew) with a precision of 15 nm. we find that cluster sizes are approximately exponentially distributed  with no characteristic cluster size. one-third of tar receptors are part of smaller lateral clusters and not of the large polar clusters. analysis of the relative cellular locations of 1.1 million individual proteins (from 326 cells) suggests that clusters form via stochastic self-assembly. the super-resolution palm maps of e. coli receptors support the notion that stochastic self-assembly can create and maintain approximately periodic structures in biological membranes  without direct cytoskeletal involvement or active transport.
2712,the nod-like receptor nlrp12 attenuates colon inflammation and tumorigenesis.,nlrp12 is a member of the intracellular nod-like receptor (nlr) family that has been suggested to downregulate the production of inflammatory cytokines  but its physiological role in regulating inflammation has not been characterized. we analyzed mice deficient in nlrp12 to study its role in inflammatory diseases such as colitis and colorectal tumorigenesis. we show that nlrp12-deficient mice are highly susceptible to colon inflammation and tumorigenesis  which is associated with increased production of inflammatory cytokines  chemokines  and tumorigenic factors. enhanced colon inflammation and colorectal tumor development in nlrp12-deficient mice are due to a failure to dampen nf-κb and erk activation in macrophages. these results reveal a critical role for nlrp12 in maintaining intestinal homeostasis and providing protection against colorectal tumorigenesis.
2714,potential consequences of replacing a retail alcohol monopoly with a private licence system: results from sweden.,aim to examine the potential effects of replacing the swedish alcohol retail system with a private licensing system on alcohol consumption and alcohol-related harm. design two possible scenarios were analysed: (1) replacing the current alcohol retail monopoly with private licensed stores that specialize in alcohol sales or (2) making all alcohol available in grocery stores. we utilized a multiplicative model that projected effects of changes in a set of key factors including hours of sale  retail prices  promotion and advertising and outlet density. next  we estimated the effect of the projected consumption increase on a set of harm indicators. values for the model parameters were obtained from the research literature. measurements measures of alcohol-related harm included explicitly alcohol-related mortality  accident mortality  suicide  homicide  assaults  drinking driving and sickness absence. findings according to the projections  scenario 1 yields a consumption increase of 17% (1.4 litres/capita)  which in turn would cause an additional 770 deaths  8500 assaults  2700 drinking driving offences and 4.5 million sick days per year. the corresponding figures for scenario 2 are a consumption increase of 37.4% (3.1 litres/capita) leading to an additional annual toll of 2000 deaths  20 000 assaults  6600 drinking driving offences and 11.1 million days of sick leave. conclusions projections based on the research literature suggest that privatization of the swedish alcohol retail market would significantly increase alcohol consumption and alcohol-related harm.
2716,tie2/angiopoietin-1 signaling regulates hematopoietic stem cell quiescence in the bone marrow niche,the quiescent state is thought to be an indispensable property for the maintenance of hematopoietic stem cells (hscs). interaction of hscs with their particular microenvironments  known as the stem cell niches  is critical for adult hematopoiesis in the bone marrow (bm). here  we demonstrate that hscs expressing the receptor tyrosine kinase tie2 are quiescent and antiapoptotic  and comprise a side-population (sp) of hscs  which adhere to osteoblasts (obs) in the bm niche. the interaction of tie2 with its ligand angiopoietin-1 (ang-1) induced cobblestone formation of hscs in vitro and maintained in vivo long-term repopulating activity of hscs. furthermore  ang-1 enhanced the ability of hscs to become quiescent and induced adhesion to bone  resulting in protection of the hsc compartment from myelosuppressive stress. these data suggest that the tie2/ang-1 signaling pathway plays a critical role in the maintenance of hscs in a quiescent state in the bm niche.
2718,exploiting lymphatic transport and complement activation in nanoparticle vaccines,antigen targeting and adjuvancy schemes that respectively facilitate delivery of antigen to dendritic cells and elicit their activation have been explored in vaccine development. here we investigate whether nanoparticles can be used as a vaccine platform by targeting lymph node–residing dendritic cells via interstitial flow and activating these cells by in situ complement activation. after intradermal injection  interstitial flow transported ultra-small nanoparticles (25 nm) highly efficiently into lymphatic capillaries and their draining lymph nodes  targeting half of the lymph node–residing dendritic cells  whereas 100-nm nanoparticles were only 10% as efficient. the surface chemistry of these nanoparticles activated the complement cascade  generating a danger signal in situ and potently activating dendritic cells. using nanoparticles conjugated to the model antigen ovalbumin  we demonstrate generation of humoral and cellular immunity in mice in a size- and complement-dependent manner.
2720,high-affinity zinc inhibition of nmda nr1-nr2a receptors,micromolar concentrations of extracellular zn2+ are known to antagonize native nmda receptors via a dual mechanism involving both a voltage-independent and a voltage-dependent inhibition. we have tried to evaluate the relative importance of these two effects and their subunit specificity on recombinant nmda receptors expressed in hek 293 cells and xenopus oocytes. the comparison of nr1a-nr2a and nr1a-nr2b receptors shows that the voltage-dependent inhibition is similar in both types of receptors but that the voltage-independent inhibition occurs at much lower zn2+ concentrations in nr1a-nr2a receptors (ic50 in the nanomolar range) than in nr1a-nr2b receptors (ic50 in the micromolar range). the high affinity of the effect observed with nr1a-nr2a receptors was found to be attributable mostly to the slow dissociation of zn2+ from its binding site. by analyzing the effects of zn2+ on varied combinations of nr1 (nr1a or nr1b) and nr2 (nr2a  nr2b  nr2c)  we show that both the nr1 and the nr2 subunits contribute to the voltage-independent zn2+ inhibition. we have observed further that under control conditions  i.e.  in zero nominal zn2+ solutions  the addition of low concentrations of heavy metal chelators markedly potentiates the responses of nr1a-nr2a receptors  but not of nr1a-nr2b receptors. this result suggests that traces of a heavy metal (probably zn2+) contaminate standard solutions and tonically inhibit nr1a-nr2a receptors. chelation of a contaminant metal also could account for the rapid nr2a subunit-specific potentiations produced by reducing compounds like dtt or glutathione.
2722,predictors of attrition and academic success of medical students: a 30-year retrospective study,aim to determine attrition and predictors of academic success among medical students at university of split  croatia. methods we analysed academic records of 2054 students enrolled during 1979-2008 period. results we found that 26% (533/2054) of enrolled students did not graduate. the most common reasons for attrition were 'personal' (36.4%)  transfer to another medical school (35.6%)  and dismissal due to unsatisfactory academic record (21.2%). grade point average (gpa) and study duration of attrition students were significantly associated with parental education. there were 1126 graduates  395 men and 731 women. their average graduation gpa was 3.67±0.53 and study duration 7.6±2.44 years. during 5-year curriculum only 6.4% (42/654) of students graduated in time  and 55% (240/472) of students graduated in time after curriculum was extended to 6 years. variables predicting whether a student will graduate or not were high school grades  entrance exam score and year of enrollment. significant predictors of graduation grades were high school grades and entrance exam score. entrance exam score predicted length of studying. conclusion preadmission academic qualifications and year of enrollment predict academic success in medical school. more attention should be devoted to high attrition.
2724,the embo journal,glutamate-gated ion channels (ionotropic glutamate receptors  iglurs) sense the extracellular milieu via an extensive extracellular portion  comprised of two clamshell-shaped segments. the distal  n-terminal domain (ntd) has allosteric potential in nmda-type iglurs  which has not been ascribed to the analogous domain in ampa receptors (ampars). in this study  we present new structural data uncovering dynamic properties of the glua2 and glua3 ampar ntds. glua3 features a zipped-open dimer interface with unconstrained lower clamshell lobes  reminiscent of metabotropic glurs (mglurs). the resulting labile interface supports interprotomer rotations  which can be transmitted to downstream receptor segments. normal mode analysis reveals two dominant mechanisms of ampar ntd motion: intraprotomer clamshell motions and interprotomer counter-rotations  as well as accessible interconversion between ampar and mglur conformations. in addition  we detect electron density for a potential ligand in the glua2 interlobe cleft  which may trigger lobe motions. together  these data support a dynamic role for the ampar ntds  which widens the allosteric landscape of the receptor and could provide a novel target for ligand development.
2726,prospective study of one million deaths in india: rationale  design  and validation results,over 75% of the annual estimated 9.5 million deaths in india occur in the home  and the large majority of these do not have a certified cause. india and other developing countries urgently need reliable quantification of the causes of death. they also need better epidemiological evidence about the relevance of physical (such as blood pressure and obesity)  behavioral (such as smoking  alcohol  hiv-1 risk taking  and immunization history)  and biological (such as blood lipids and gene polymorphisms) measurements to the development of disease in individuals or disease rates in populations. this report here is on the rationale  design  and implementation of the worldâ€™s largest prospective study of the causes and correlates of mortality. nearly 14 million people in 2.4 million nationally representative indian households will be monitored (for vital status and  if dead  the causes of death through a well-validated verbal autopsy (va) instrument. be addressed. this study will reliably document not only the underlying cause of child and adult deaths but also key risk factors (behavioral  physical  environmental  and eventually  genetic). it offers a globally replicable model for reliably estimating cause-specific mortality using va and strengthens indiaâ€™s flagship mortality monitoring system. despite the misclassification that is still expected  the new cause-of-death data will be substantially better than that available previously.[plos medicine  february 2006.]
2728,expression of interleukin-18 in human atherosclerotic plaques and relation to plaque instability.,background interleukin (il)-18 is a potent proinflammatory cytokine with potential atherogenic properties. its expression and role in atherosclerosis  however  are unknown. methods and results in the present study  we examined stable and unstable human carotid atherosclerotic plaques retrieved by endarterectomy for the presence of il-18 using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (pcr)  western blot  and immunohistochemical techniques. il-18 was highly expressed in the atherosclerotic plaques compared with control normal arteries and was localized mainly in plaque macrophages. il-18 receptor was also upregulated in plaque macrophages and endothelial cells  suggesting potential biological effects. to examine the role of il-18 in atherosclerosis  we determined the relation between il-18 mrna expression and signs of plaque instability using real-time quantitative pcr. interestingly  significantly higher levels of il-18 mrna were found in symptomatic (unstable) plaques than asymptomatic (stable) plaques (p<0.01). conclusions these results suggest  for the first time  a major role for il-18 in atherosclerotic plaque destabilization leading to acute ischemic syndromes.
2730,determination of malaria epidemiological status in iran’s malarious areas as baseline information for implementation of malaria elimination program in iran,background according to willingness of the ministry of health  iran and presence of appropriate conditions for disease elimination  national malaria control program decided to conduct a research to clarify malaria status in 2007 and to provide required information to perform the elimination program. this review is comprised of the basis of national malaria elimination program in vision of 2025  which was started in 2010. methods in this descriptive study  data were analyzed by applications of different variables at district level. all districts in the three south eastern provinces  in which malaria has local transmission  were considered. malaria cases has been determined and studied based on the national malaria surveillance system. results since vivax malaria is predominant in sistan & baluchestan province  number of vivax cases is equal to malaria positive cases approximately. the important point is that nikshahr contains the maximum number of local vivax cases in this province and the maximum number of falciparum cases is reported from sarbaz district. among all districts of hormozgan province  no case of autochthonous falciparum was detected except in bandar jask and one case in minab. there was no case of autochthonous falciparum in kerman province  except in kahnoj and ghale ganj that each of them had one case in 2007. conclusion it appears that the report of locally transmitted cases in iran is increasing over the past few years  before starting malaria elimination plan. since the afghan refugees started to return to their own country so the main source of reporting of imported malaria cases reduced and local cases would be demonstrated more clearly.
2732,blast+: architecture and applications,background sequence similarity searching is a very important bioinformatics task. while basic local alignment search tool (blast) outperforms exact methods through its use of heuristics  the speed of the current blast software is suboptimal for very long queries or database sequences. there are also some shortcomings in the user-interface of the current command-line applications. results we describe features and improvements of rewritten blast software and introduce new command-line applications. long query sequences are broken into chunks for processing  in some cases leading to dramatically shorter run times. for long database sequences  it is possible to retrieve only the relevant parts of the sequence  reducing cpu time and memory usage for searches of short queries against databases of contigs or chromosomes. the program can now retrieve masking information for database sequences from the blast databases. a new modular software library can now access subject sequence data from arbitrary data sources. we introduce several new features  including strategy files that allow a user to save and reuse their favorite set of options. the strategy files can be uploaded to and downloaded from the ncbi blast web site. conclusion the new blast command-line applications  compared to the current blast tools  demonstrate substantial speed improvements for long queries as well as chromosome length database sequences. we have also improved the user interface of the command-line applications.
2734,epidemiologic studies on dengue in santiago de cuba  1997.,a small  isolated outbreak of dengue hemorrhagic fever/dengue shock syndrome (dhf/dss) due to dengue virus type 2 (den-2) was documented in santiago de cuba on the island of cuba beginning in january 1997. there were 205 dhf/dss cases  all in persons older than age 15 years. all but three had evidence of a prior dengue infection  with the only known opportunity being the islandwide dengue virus type 1 (den-1) epidemic of 1977-1979. virtually complete clinical and laboratory surveillance of overt disease was achieved. from december 1997 to january 1998  a random  age-stratified serum sample was obtained from 1 151 persons in 40 residential clusters in santiago. sera were tested for den-1 and den-2 neutralizing antibodies. the prevalence of den-2 antibodies in children age 15 years and under  born after the 1981 den-2 epidemic  was taken as the 1997 den-2 infection rate. this was adjusted slightly to accommodate observed cases  resulting in an estimated infection rate of 4.3%. dengue fever and dhf/dss attack rates were calculated from estimated total primary and secondary den-2 infections. only 3% of 13 116 primary infections were overt. the dhf/dss attack rate for adults of all ages was 420 per 10 000 secondary den-2 infections.
2736,a heteroskedasticity-consistent covariance matrix estimator and a direct test for heteroskedasticity,this paper presents a parameter covariance matrix estimator which is consistent even when the disturbances of a linear regression model are heteroskedastic. this estimator does not depend on a formal model of the structure of the heteroskedasticity. by comparing the elements of the new estimator to those of the usual covariance estimator  one obtains a direct test for heteroskedasticity  since in the absence of heteroskedasticity  the two estimators will be approximately equal  but will generally diverge otherwise. the test has an appealing least squares interpretation.
2738,a role for the vacuolating cytotoxin  vaca  in colonization and helicobacter pylori–induced metaplasia in the stomach,carriage of helicobacter pylori strains producing more active (s1/i1) forms of vaca is strongly associated with gastric adenocarcinoma. to our knowledge  we are the first to determine effects of different polymorphic forms of vaca on inflammation and metaplasia in the mouse stomach. bacteria producing the less active s2/i2 form of vaca colonized mice more efficiently than mutants null for vaca or producing more active forms of it  providing the first evidence of a positive role for the minimally active s2/i2 toxin. strains producing more active toxin forms induced more severe and extensive metaplasia and inflammation in the mouse stomach than strains producing weakly active (s2/i2) toxin. we also examined the association in humans  controlling for cagpai status. in human gastric biopsy specimens  the vaca i1 allele was strongly associated with precancerous intestinal metaplasia  with almost complete absence of intestinal metaplasia in subjects infected with i2-type strains  even in a vaca s1  caga(+) background.
2740,rodent models of depression: neurotrophic and neuroinflammatory biomarkers,rodent models are an indispensable tool for studying etiology and progress of depression. since interrelated systems of neurotrophic factors and cytokines comprise major regulatory mechanisms controlling normal brain plasticity  impairments of these systems form the basis for development of cerebral pathologies  including mental diseases. the present review focuses on the numerous experimental rodent models of depression induced by different stress factors (exteroceptive and interoceptive) during early life (including prenatal period) or adulthood  giving emphasis to the data on the changes of neurotrophic factors and neuroinflammatory indices in the brain. these parameters are closely related to behavioral depression-like symptoms and impairments of neuronal plasticity and are both gender- and genotype-dependent. stress-related changes in expression of neurotrophins and cytokines in rodent brain are region-specific. some contradictory data reported by different groups may be a consequence of differences of stress paradigms or their realization in different laboratories. like all experimental models  stress-induced depression-like conditions are experimental simplification of clinical depression states; however  they are suitable for understanding the involvement of neurotrophic factors and cytokines in the pathogenesis of the disease-a goal unachievable in the clinical reality. these major regulatory systems may be important targets for therapeutic measures as well as for development of drugs for treatment of depression states.
2742,regulation of poly(a) site choice of several yeast mrnas,several yeast genes produce multiple transcripts with different 3'-ends. of these  four genes are known to produce truncated transcripts that end within the coding sequence of longer transcripts: cbp1   aep2 / atp13   rna14 and sir1 . it has been shown that the level of the truncated cbp1 transcript increases during the switch to respiratory growth while that of the full-length transcript decreases. to determine whether this phenomenon is unique to cbp1   northern analysis was used to determine whether the levels of other truncated transcripts are regulated similarly by carbon source. the levels of the shortest transcripts of aep2 / atp13 and rna14 increased during respiration while the shortest sir1 transcript remained constant. however  two longer sir1 transcripts were regulated reciprocally by carbon source. mapping the 3'-ends of each transcript by sequencing partial cdna clones revealed multiple 3'-ends for each transcript. examination of the sequences surrounding the 3'-ends of the induced transcripts failed to identify a consensus sequence but did reveal weak putative 3'-end formation signals in all of the transcripts. similarly  no consensus sequence was found when the sequences surrounding the 3'-ends of the longest transcripts were compared  but again weak putative 3'-end formation signals were identified. these data are suggestive of carbon source regulation of alternative poly(a) site choice in yeast.
2744,angiotensin ii evokes angiogenic signals within skeletal muscle through co-ordinated effects on skeletal myocytes and endothelial cells,skeletal muscle overload induces the expression of angiogenic factors such as vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) and matrix metalloproteinase (mmp)-2  leading to new capillary growth. we found that the overload-induced increase in angiogenesis  as well as increases in vegf  mmp-2 and mt1-mmp transcripts were abrogated in muscle vegf ko mice  highlighting the critical role of myocyte-derived vegf in controlling this process. the upstream mediators that contribute to overload-induced expression of vegf have yet to be ascertained. we found that muscle overload increased angiotensinogen expression  a precursor of angiotensin (ang) ii  and that ang ii signaling played an important role in basal vegf production in c2c12 cells. furthermore  matrix-bound vegf released from myoblasts induced the activation of endothelial cells  as evidenced by elevated endothelial cell phospho-p38 levels. we also found that exogenous ang ii elevates vegf expression  as well as mmp-2 transcript levels in c2c12 myotubes. interestingly  these responses also were observed in skeletal muscle endothelial cells in response to ang ii treatment  indicating that these cells also can respond directly to the stimulus. the involvement of ang ii in muscle overload-induced angiogenesis was assessed. we found that blockade of at1r-dependent ang ii signaling using losartan did not attenuate capillary growth. surprisingly  increased levels of vegf protein were detected in overloaded muscle from losartan-treated rats. similarly  we observed elevated vegf production in cultured endothelial cells treated with losartan alone or in combination with ang ii. these studies conclusively establish the requirement for muscle derived vegf in overload-induced angiogenesis and highlight a role for ang ii in basal vegf production in skeletal muscle. however  while ang ii signaling is activated following overload and plays a role in muscle vegf production  inhibition of this pathway is not sufficient to halt overload-induced angiogenesis  indicating that at1-independent signals maintain vegf production in losartan-treated muscle.
2746,dnmt1-independent cg methylation contributes to nucleosome positioning in diverse eukaryotes,dnmt1 epigenetically propagates symmetrical cg methylation in many eukaryotes. their genomes are typically depleted of cg dinucleotides because of imperfect repair of deaminated methylcytosines. here  we extensively survey diverse species lacking dnmt1 and show that  surprisingly  symmetrical cg methylation is nonetheless frequently present and catalyzed by a different dna methyltransferase family  dnmt5. numerous dnmt5-containing organisms that diverged more than a billion years ago exhibit clustered methylation  specifically in nucleosome linkers. clustered methylation occurs at unprecedented densities and directly disfavors nucleosomes  contributing to nucleosome positioning between clusters. dense methylation is enabled by a regime of genomic sequence evolution that enriches cg dinucleotides and drives the highest cg frequencies known. species with linker methylation have small  transcriptionally active nuclei that approach the physical limits of chromatin compaction. these features constitute a previously unappreciated genome architecture  in which dense methylation influences nucleosome positions  likely facilitating nuclear processes under extreme spatial constraints.
2748,centrosome-dependent asymmetric inheritance of the midbody ring in drosophila germline stem cell division,many stem cells  including drosophila germline stem cells (gscs)  divide asymmetrically  producing one stem cell and one differentiating daughter. cytokinesis is often asymmetric  in that only one daughter cell inherits the midbody ring (mr) upon completion of abscission even in apparently symmetrically dividing cells. however  whether the asymmetry in cytokinesis correlates with cell fate or has functional relevance has been poorly explored. here we show that the mr is asymmetrically segregated during gsc divisions in a centrosome age-dependent manner: male gscs  which inherit the mother centrosome  exclude the mr  whereas female gscs  which we here show inherit the daughter centrosome  inherit the mr. we further show that stem cell identity correlates with the mode of mr inheritance. together our data suggest that the mr does not inherently dictate stem cell identity  although its stereotypical inheritance is under the control of stemness and potentially provides a platform for asymmetric segregation of certain factors.
2750,home birth and barriers to referring women with obstetric complications to hospitals: a mixed-methods study in zahedan  southeastern iran,background one factor that contributes to high maternal mortality in developing countries is the delayed use of emergency obstetric-care (emoc) facilities. the objective of this study was to determine the factors that hinder midwives and parturient women from using hospitals when complications occur during home birth in sistan and baluchestan province  iran  where 23% of all deliveries take place in non- hospital settings. methods in the study and data management  a mixed-methods approach was used. in the quantitative phase  we compared the existing health-sector data with world health organization (who) standards for the availability and use of emoc services. the qualitative phase included collection and analysis of interviews with midwives and traditional birth attendants and twenty-one in-depth interviews with mothers. the data collected in this phase were managed according to the principles of qualitative data analysis. results the findings demonstrate that three distinct factors lead to indecisiveness and delay in the use of emoc by the midwives and mothers studied. socio-cultural and familial reasons compel some women to choose to give birth at home and to hesitate seeking professional emergency care for delivery complications. apprehension about being insulted by physicians  the necessity of protecting their professional integrity in front of patients and an inability to persuade their patients lead to an over-insistence by midwives on completing deliveries at the mothers' homes and a reluctance to refer their patients to hospitals. the low quality and expense of emoc and the mothers' lack of health insurance also contribute to delays in referral. conclusions women who choose to give birth at home accept the risk that complications may arise. training midwives and persuading mothers and significant others who make decisions about the value of referring women to hospitals at the onset of life-threatening complications are central factors to increasing the use of available hospitals. the hospitals must be safe  comfortable and attractive environments for parturition and should give appropriate consideration to the ethical and cultural concerns of the women. appropriate management of financial and insurance-related issues can help midwives and mothers make a rational decision when complications arise.
2752,cadherins in brain morphogenesis and wiring.,cadherins are ca(2+)-dependent cell-cell adhesion molecules that play critical roles in animal morphogenesis. various cadherin-related molecules have also been identified  which show diverse functions  not only for the regulation of cell adhesion but also for that of cell proliferation and planar cell polarity. during the past decade  understanding of the roles of these molecules in the nervous system has significantly progressed. they are important not only for the development of the nervous system but also for its functions and  in turn  for neural disorders. in this review  we discuss the roles of cadherins and related molecules in neural development and function in the vertebrate brain.
2754,alternative markers of hyperglycemia and risk of diabetes,objective fructosamine  glycated albumin  and 1 5-anhydroglucitol (1 5-ag) are of interest for monitoring short-term glycemic control in patients with diabetes; however  their associations with diabetes risk are uncharacterized. research design and methods we used cox proportional hazards models to examine the associations of fructosamine  glycated albumin  and 1 5-ag with incident diabetes in 1 299 participants  from the atherosclerosis risk in communities (aric) study (2005-2006)  who had no history of diagnosed diabetes at baseline. incident diabetes was self-reported during annual telephone calls. results there were 119 new cases of diabetes during a median follow-up of 3.3 years. when compared with the lowest quartile  the fourth quartiles of fructosamine and glycated albumin were significantly associated with diabetes risk (hazard ratio [hr] 3.99 [95% ci 1.93-8.28] and 5.22 [2.49-10.94]  respectively). the fourth quartile of 1 5-ag was associated with a significantly lower diabetes risk (0.27 [0.14-0.55]). associations were attenuated but still significant after adjustment for hemoglobin a(1c) (a1c) or fasting glucose. conclusions fructosamine  glycated albumin  and 1 5-ag were associated with the subsequent development of diabetes independently of baseline a1c and fasting glucose. our results suggest these alternative biomarkers may be useful in identifying persons at risk for diabetes.
2756,affy--analysis of affymetrix genechip data at the probe level.,motivation the processing of the affymetrix genechip data has been a recent focus for data analysts. alternatives to the original procedure have been proposed and some of these new methods are widely used. results the affy package is an r package of functions and classes for the analysis of oligonucleotide arrays manufactured by affymetrix. the package is currently in its second release  affy provides the user with extreme flexibility when carrying out an analysis and make it possible to access and manipulate probe intensity data. in this paper  we present the main classes and functions in the package and demonstrate how they can be used to process probe-level data. we also demonstrate the importance of probe-level analysis when using the affymetrix genechip platform.
2758,clonal analysis of epiblast fate during germ layer formation in the mouse embryo.,the fate of cells in the epiblast at prestreak and early primitive streak stages has been studied by injecting horseradish peroxidase (hrp) into single cells in situ of 6.7-day mouse embryos and identifying the labelled descendants at midstreak to neural plate stages after one day of culture. ectoderm was composed of descendants of epiblast progenitors that had been located in the embryonic axis anterior to the primitive streak. embryonic mesoderm was derived from all areas of the epiblast except the distal tip and the adjacent region anterior to it: the most anterior mesoderm cells originated posteriorly  traversing the primitive streak early; labelled cells in the posterior part of the streak at the neural plate stage were derived from extreme anterior axial and paraxial epiblast progenitors; head process cells were derived from epiblast at or near the anterior end of the primitive streak. endoderm descendants were most frequently derived from a region that included  but extended beyond  the region producing the head process: descendants of epiblast were present in endoderm by the midstreak stage  as well as at later stages. yolk sac and amnion mesoderm developed from posterolateral and posterior epiblast. the resulting fate map is essentially the same as those of the chick and urodele and indicates that  despite geometrical differences  topological fate relationships are conserved among these vertebrates. clonal descendants were not necessarily confined to a single germ layer or to extraembryonic mesoderm  indicating that these lineages are not separated at the beginning of gastrulation. the embryonic axis lengthened up to the neural plate stage by (1) elongation of the primitive streak through progressive incorporation of the expanding lateral and initially more anterior regions of epiblast and  (2) expansion of the region of epiblast immediately cranial to the anterior end of the primitive streak. the population doubling time of labelled cells was 7.5 h; a calculated 43% were in  or had completed  a 4th cell cycle  and no statistically significant regional differences in the number of descendants were found. this clonal analysis also showed that (1) growth in the epiblast was noncoherent and in most regions anisotropic and directed towards the primitive streak and (2) the midline did not act as a barrier to clonal spread  either in the epiblast in the anterior half of the axis or in the primitive streak. these results taken together with the fate map indicate that  while individual cells in the epiblast sheet behave independently with respect to their neighbours  morphogenetic movement during germ layer formation is coordinated in the population as a whole.
2760,effect of health literacy on quality of life amongst patients with ischaemic heart disease in australian general practice,background appropriate understanding of health information by patients with cardiovascular disease (cvd) is fundamental for better management of risk factors and improved morbidity  which can also benefit their quality of life. objectives to assess the relationship between health literacy and health-related quality of life (hrqol) in patients with ischaemic heart disease (ihd)  and to investigate the role of sociodemographic and clinical variables as possible confounders. methods cross-sectional study of patients with ihd recruited from a stratified sample of general practices in two australian states (queensland and south australia) between 2007 and 2009. health literacy was measured using a validated questionnaire and classified as inadequate  marginal  or adequate. physical and mental components of hrqol were assessed using the medical outcomes study short form (sf12) questionnaire. analyses were adjusted for confounders (sociodemographic variables  clinical history of ihd  number of cvd comorbidities  and cvd risk factors) using multiple linear regression. results a total sample of 587 patients with ihd (mean age 72.0±8.4 years) was evaluated: 76.8% males  84.2% retired or pensioner  and 51.4% with up to secondary educational level. health literacy showed a mean of 39.6±6.7 points  with 14.3% (95%ci 11.8-17.3) classified as inadequate. scores of the physical component of hrqol were 39.6 (95%ci 37.1-42.1)  42.1 (95%ci 40.8-43.3) and 44.8 (95%ci 43.3-46.2) for inadequate  marginal  and adequate health literacy  respectively (p-value for trend = 0.001). this association persisted after adjustment for confounders. health literacy was not associated with the mental component of hrqol (p-value = 0.482). advanced age  lower educational level  disadvantaged socioeconomic position  and a larger number of cvd comorbidities adversely affected both  health literacy and hrqol.   conclusion inadequate health literacy is a contributing factor to poor physical functioning in patients with ihd. increasing health literacy may improve hrqol and reduce the impact of ihd among patients with this chronic cvd.
2762,chromatin structure and gene expression programs of human embryonic and induced pluripotent stem cells.,knowledge of both the global chromatin structure and the gene expression programs of human embryonic stem cells (escs) and induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs) should provide a robust means to assess whether the genomes of these cells have similar pluripotent states. recent studies have suggested that escs and ipscs represent different pluripotent states with substantially different gene expression profiles. we describe here a comparison of global chromatin structure and gene expression data for a panel of human escs and ipscs. genome-wide maps of nucleosomes with histone h3k4me3 and h3k27me3 modifications indicate that there is little difference between escs and ipscs with respect to these marks. gene expression profiles confirm that the transcriptional programs of escs and ipscs show very few consistent differences. although some variation in chromatin structure and gene expression was observed in these cell lines  these variations did not serve to distinguish escs from ipscs.
2764,monitoring tumorigenesis and senescence in vivo with a p16ink4a-luciferase model,monitoring cancer and aging in vivo remains experimentally challenging. here  we describe a luciferase knockin mouse (p16(luc))  which faithfully reports expression of p16(ink4a)  a tumor suppressor and aging biomarker. lifelong assessment of luminescence in p16(+/luc) mice revealed an exponential increase with aging  which was highly variable in a cohort of contemporaneously housed  syngeneic mice. expression of p16(ink4a) with aging did not predict cancer development  suggesting that the accumulation of senescent cells is not a principal determinant of cancer-related death. in 14 of 14 tested tumor models  expression of p16(luc) was focally activated by early neoplastic events  enabling visualization of tumors with sensitivity exceeding other imaging modalities. activation of p16(ink4a) was noted in the emerging neoplasm and surrounding stromal cells. this work suggests that p16(ink4a) activation is a characteristic of all emerging cancers  making the p16(luc) allele a sensitive  unbiased reporter of neoplastic transformation.
2766,netting neutrophils in autoimmune small-vessel vasculitis,small-vessel vasculitis (svv) is a chronic autoinflammatory condition linked to antineutrophil cytoplasm autoantibodies (ancas). here we show that chromatin fibers  so-called neutrophil extracellular traps (nets)  are released by anca-stimulated neutrophils and contain the targeted autoantigens proteinase-3 (pr3) and myeloperoxidase (mpo). deposition of nets in inflamed kidneys and circulating mpo-dna complexes suggest that net formation triggers vasculitis and promotes the autoimmune response against neutrophil components in individuals with svv.
2768,xrcc4's interaction with xlf is required for coding (but not signal) end joining,xrcc4 and xlf are structurally related proteins important for dna ligase iv function. xrcc4 forms a tight complex with dna ligase iv while xlf interacts directly with xrcc4. both xrcc4 and xlf form homodimers that can polymerize as heterotypic filaments independently of dna ligase iv. emerging structural and in vitro biochemical data suggest that xrcc4 and xlf together generate a filamentous structure that promotes bridging between dna molecules. here  we show that ablating xrcc4's affinity for xlf results in dna repair deficits including a surprising deficit in vdj coding  but not signal end joining. these data are consistent with a model whereby xrcc4/xlf complexes hold dna ends together--stringently required for coding end joining  but dispensable for signal end joining. finally  dna-pk phosphorylation of xrcc4/xlf complexes disrupt dna bridging in vitro  suggesting a regulatory role for dna-pk's phosphorylation of xrcc4/xlf complexes.
2770,management of patients with sore throats in relation to guidelines: an interview study in sweden,objective to explore how a group of swedish general practitioners (gps) manage patients with a sore throat in relation to current guidelines as expressed in interviews. design qualitative content analysis was used to analyse semi-structured interviews. setting swedish primary care. subjects a strategic sample of 25 gps. main outcome measures perceived management of sore throat patients. results it was found that nine of the interviewed gps were adherent to current guidelines for sore throat and 16 were non-adherent. the two groups differed in terms of guideline knowledge  which was shared within the team for adherent gps while idiosyncratic knowledge dominated for the non-adherent gps. adherent gps had no or low concerns for bacterial infections and differential diagnosis whilst non-adherent gps believed that in patients with a sore throat any bacterial infection should be identified and treated with antibiotics. patient history and examination was mainly targeted by adherent gps whilst for non-adherent gps it was often redundant. non-adherent gps reported problems getting patients to abstain from antibiotics  whilst no such problems were reported in adherent gps. conclusion this interview study of sore throat management in a strategically sampled group of swedish gps showed that while two-thirds were non-adherent and had a liberal attitude to antibiotics one-third were guideline adherent with a restricted view on antibiotics. non-adherent gps revealed significant knowledge gaps. adherent gps had discussed guidelines within the primary care team while non-adherent gps had not. guideline implementation thus seemed to be promoted by knowledge shared in team discussions.
2772,label-free in vivo imaging of myelinated axons in health and disease with spectral confocal reflectance microscopy,we report a newly developed technique for high-resolution in vivo imaging of myelinated axons in the brain  spinal cord and peripheral nerve that requires no fluorescent labeling. this method  based on spectral confocal reflectance microscopy (score)  uses a conventional laser-scanning confocal system to generate images by merging the simultaneously reflected signals from multiple lasers of different wavelengths. striking color patterns unique to individual myelinated fibers are generated that facilitate their tracing in dense axonal areas. these patterns highlight nodes of ranvier and schmidt-lanterman incisures and can be used to detect various myelin pathologies. using score we carried out chronic brain imaging up to 400 μm deep  capturing de novo myelination of mouse cortical axons in vivo. we also established the feasibility of imaging myelinated axons in the human cerebral cortex. score adds a powerful component to the evolving toolbox for imaging myelination in living animals and potentially in humans.
2774,batf is important for il-4 expression in t follicular helper cells,apart from t helper (th)-2 cells  t follicular helper (tfh) cells are a major class of il-4-producing t cells  required for regulation of type 2 humoral immunity; however  transcriptional control of il-4 production in tfh cells remains mainly unknown. here  we show that the basic leucine zipper transcription factor atf-like  batf is important for il-4 expression in tfh cells rather than in canonical th2 cells. functionally  batf in cooperation with interferon regulatory factor (irf) 4 along with stat3 and stat6 trigger il-4 production in tfh cells by directly binding to and activation of the cns2 region in the il-4 locus. in addition  batf-to-c-maf signalling is an important determinant of il-4 expression in tfh cells. batf deficiency impairs the generation of il-4-producing tfh cells that results in protection against allergic asthma. our results thus indicate a positive role of batf in promoting the generation of pro-allergic il-4-producing tfh cells.
2776,discovery and development of the polo-like kinase inhibitor volasertib in cancer therapy,owing to their integral involvement in cell cycle regulation  the polo-like kinase (plk) family  particularly plk1  has emerged as an attractive therapeutic target in oncology. in recent years  several plk1 inhibitors have been developed  with some agents showing encouraging results in early-phase clinical trials. this review focuses on volasertib (bi 6727; an investigational agent)  a potent and selective plk inhibitor. volasertib has shown promising activity in various cancer cell lines and xenograft models of human cancer. trials performed to date suggest that volasertib has clinical efficacy in a range of malignancies  with the most promising results seen in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (aml). encouragingly  recent phase ii data have demonstrated that volasertib combined with low-dose cytarabine (ldac) was associated with higher response rates and improved event-free survival than ldac alone in patients with previously untreated aml. based on these observations  and its presumably manageable safety profile  volasertib is currently in phase iii development as a potential treatment for patients with aml who are ineligible for intensive remission induction therapy. given that many patients with aml are of an older age and frail  this constitutes an area of major unmet need. in this review  we discuss the biologic rationale for plk1 inhibitors in cancer  the clinical development of volasertib to date in solid tumors and aml  and the future identification of biomarkers that might predict response to volasertib and help determine the role of this agent in the clinic.
2778,effects of abciximab on the architecture of platelet-rich clots in patients with acute myocardial infarction undergoing primary coronary intervention.,background abciximab plus aspirin improves the timi 3 flow rate of the infarct-related artery in patients treated with either percutaneous coronary intervention or thrombolysis. the present study investigated whether the reperfusion efficacy of abciximab relates to modifications of clot architecture in patients admitted for acute myocardial infarction (ami). methods and results a total of 23 ami patients in the abciximab before direct angioplasty and stenting in myocardial infarction regarding acute and long term follow-up (admiral) trial received  in a double-blind fashion  either abciximab (n=13) or placebo (n=10) before primary stenting. viscoelastic (g' in dyne/cm(2)) and morphological (mean platelet aggregate surface area [sag] in micrometer(2)) indexes of ex vivo platelet-rich clots (prc) were assessed in a double-blind fashion before and after the bolus administration of abciximab or placebo. g' and sag reflect the mechanical and morphological impact of activated platelets on the prc fibrin network  respectively. abciximab administration reduced g' by 63% (p=0.0001) and sag by 65% (p=0.0007)  and no effect was seen in the placebo group. these abciximab-related changes increased fibrin exposure as a consequence of the platelet-aggregate surface reduction and may have improved endogenous fibrinolysis. these effects were identified in all patients  independent of previous heparin administration. conclusions abciximab dramatically reduces platelet aggregate size and increases the fibrin accessibility of ex vivo prc in ami patients. these modifications could participate in the better coronary artery patency observed with abciximab.
2780,knowledge of young african american adults about heart disease: a cross-sectional survey,background african americans have higher rates of cardiovascular disease (cvd) mortality than other ethnic groups. young adults are prime targets for intervention strategies to prevent and reduce disease risk. the study purpose was to determine the level of knowledge of lifestyle risk factors for cvd among young african american adults in phoenix. the results will be used to guide the development of cvd outreach programs targeted to this population. the health belief model was used as a conceptual framework. methods a convenience sample of 172 african american men and women aged 18-26 years completed a questionnaire adapted from the american heart association national surveys. descriptive statistics were compared by age  gender  education level  and health status variables including bmi  smoking status  and physical activity. results some aspects of heart-disease were well known among young adult african americans. knowledge of certain other important risk factors (menopause) and preventive behaviors (eating fewer animal products)  however  was more variable and inconsistent among the respondents. differences in knowledge of individual variables was greater by education level than by gender overall. predictors of a summary cvd knowledge score included higher education  female gender  and high self-efficacy (adjusted r2 = 0.158  p < .001). predictors of self-efficacy in changing cvd risk were higher education and perceived low risk of cvd (adjusted r2 = 0.064  p < .001)  but these characteristics explained only 6% of the variance. conclusions evaluation of baseline knowledge of cvd is essential before designing and implementing health promotion programs. existing strengths and weaknesses in knowledge can guide tailoring of programs to be more effective. further research would help to identify the range of other characteristics that determine knowledge and risk perception.
2782,briefings in functional genomics and proteomics. vol 5. no 3. 209^221 doi:10.1093/bfgp/ell028 histone acetylation in gene regulation,genetic information is packaged in the highly dynamic nucleoprotein structure called chromatin. many biological processes are regulated via post-translational modifications of key proteins. acetylation of lysine residues at the n-terminal histone tails is one of the most studied covalent modifications influencing gene regulation in eukaryotic cells. this review focuses on the role of enzymes involved in controlling both histone and non-histone proteins acetylation levels in the cell  with particular emphasis on their effects on cancer.
2784,headache  migraine  and structural brain lesions and function: population based epidemiology of vascular ageing-mri study,objective to evaluate the association of overall and specific headaches with volume of white matter hyperintensities  brain infarcts  and cognition. design population based  cross sectional study. setting epidemiology of vascular ageing study  nantes  france. participants 780 participants (mean age 69  58.5% women) with detailed headache assessment. main outcome measures brain scans were evaluated for volume of white matter hyperintensities (by fully automated imaging processing) and for classification of infarcts (by visual reading with a standardised assessment grid). cognitive function was assessed by a battery of tests including the mini-mental state examination. results 163 (20.9%) participants reported a history of severe headache and 116 had migraine  of whom 17 (14.7%) reported aura symptoms. an association was found between any history of severe headache and increasing volume of white matter hyperintensities. the adjusted odds ratio of being in the highest third for total volume of white matter hyperintensities was 2.0 (95% confidence interval 1.3 to 3.1  p for trend 0.002) for participants with any history of severe headache when compared with participants without severe headache being in the lowest third. the association pattern was similar for all headache types. migraine with aura was the only headache type strongly associated with volume of deep white matter hyperintensities (highest third odds ratio 12.4  1.6 to 99.4  p for trend 0.005) and with brain infarcts (3.4  1.2 to 9.3). the location of infarcts was predominantly outside the cerebellum and brain stem. evidence was lacking for cognitive impairment for any headache type with or without brain lesions. conclusions in this population based study  any history of severe headache was associated with an increased volume of white matter hyperintensities. migraine with aura was the only headache type associated with brain infarcts. evidence that headache of any type by itself or in combination with brain lesions was associated with cognitive impairment was lacking.
2786,membrane lipids in invadopodia and podosomes: key structures for cancer invasion and metastasis,invadopodia are extracellular matrix (ecm)-degrading protrusions formed by invasive cancer cells. podosomes are structures functionally similar to invadopodia that are found in oncogene-transformed fibroblasts and monocyte-derived cells  including macrophages and osteoclasts. these structures are thought to play important roles in the pericellular remodeling of ecm during cancer invasion and metastasis. much effort has been directed toward identification of the molecular components and regulators of invadopodia/podosomes  which could be therapeutic targets in the treatment of malignant cancers. however  it remains largely unknown how these components are assembled into invadopodia/podosomes and how the assembly process is spatially and temporally regulated. this review will summarize recent progress on the molecular mechanisms of invadopodia/podosome formation  with strong emphasis on the roles of lipid rafts and phosphoinositides.
2788,displacement of a dna binding protein by dda helicase,bacteriophage t4 dda helicase has recently been shown to be active as a monomer for unwinding of short duplex oligonucleotides and for displacing streptavidin from 3′-biotinylated oligonucleotides. however  its activity for streptavidin displacement and dna unwinding has been shown to increase as the number of dda molecules bound to the substrate molecule increases. a substrate was designed to address the ability of dda to displace dna binding proteins. a dna binding site for the escherichia coli trp repressor was introduced into an oligonucleotide substrate for dda helicase containing single-stranded overhang. here we show that a dda monomer is insufficient to displace the e.coli trp repressor from dsdna under single turnover conditions  although the substrate is unwound and the repressor displaced when the single-stranded overhang is long enough to accommodate two dda molecules. the quantity of product formed increases when the substrate is able to accommodate more than two dda molecules. these results indicate that multiple dda molecules act to displace dna binding proteins in a manner that correlates with the dna unwinding activity and streptavidin displacement activity. we suggest a cooperative inchworm model to describe the activities of dda helicase.
2790,pad4 is essential for antibacterial innate immunity mediated by neutrophil extracellular traps,neutrophils trap and kill bacteria by forming highly decondensed chromatin structures  termed neutrophil extracellular traps (nets). we previously reported that histone hypercitrullination catalyzed by peptidylarginine deiminase 4 (pad4) correlates with chromatin decondensation during net formation. however  the role of pad4 in net-mediated bacterial trapping and killing has not been tested. here  we use pad4 knockout mice to show that pad4 is essential for net-mediated antibacterial function. unlike pad4(+/+) neutrophils  pad4(-/-) neutrophils cannot form nets after stimulation with chemokines or incubation with bacteria  and are deficient in bacterial killing by nets. in a mouse infectious disease model of necrotizing fasciitis  pad4(-/-) mice are more susceptible to bacterial infection than pad4(+/+) mice due to a lack of net formation. moreover  we found that citrullination decreased the bacterial killing activity of histones and nucleosomes  which suggests that pad4 mainly plays a role in chromatin decondensation to form nets instead of increasing histone-mediated bacterial killing. our results define a role for histone hypercitrullination in innate immunity during bacterial infection.
2792,mindfulness meditation and improvement in sleep quality and daytime impairment among older adults with sleep disturbances: a randomized clinical trial.,importance sleep disturbances are most prevalent among older adults and often go untreated. treatment options for sleep disturbances remain limited  and there is a need for community-accessible programs that can improve sleep. objective to determine the efficacy of a mind-body medicine intervention  called mindfulness meditation  to promote sleep quality in older adults with moderate sleep disturbances. design  setting  and participants randomized clinical trial with 2 parallel groups conducted from january 1 to december 31  2012  at a medical research center among an older adult sample (mean [sd] age  66.3 [7.4] years) with moderate sleep disturbances (pittsburgh sleep quality index [psqi] >5). interventions a standardized mindful awareness practices (maps) intervention (n = 24) or a sleep hygiene education (she) intervention (n = 25) was randomized to participants  who received a 6-week intervention (2 hours per week) with assigned homework. main outcomes and measures the study was powered to detect between-group differences in moderate sleep disturbance measured via the psqi at postintervention. secondary outcomes pertained to sleep-related daytime impairment and included validated measures of insomnia symptoms  depression  anxiety  stress  and fatigue  as well as inflammatory signaling via nuclear factor (nf)-κb.   results using an intent-to-treat analysis  participants in the maps group showed significant improvement relative to those in the she group on the psqi. with the maps intervention  the mean (sd) psqis were 10.2 (1.7) at baseline and 7.4 (1.9) at postintervention. with the she intervention  the mean (sd) psqis were 10.2 (1.8) at baseline and 9.1 (2.0) at postintervention. the between-group mean difference was 1.8 (95% ci  0.6-2.9)  with an effect size of 0.89. the maps group showed significant improvement relative to the she group on secondary health outcomes of insomnia symptoms  depression symptoms  fatigue interference  and fatigue severity (p < .05 for all). between-group differences were not observed for anxiety  stress  or nf-κb  although nf-κb concentrations significantly declined over time in both groups (p < .05). conclusions and relevance the use of a community-accessible maps intervention resulted in improvements in sleep quality at immediate postintervention  which was superior to a highly structured she intervention. formalized mindfulness-based interventions have clinical importance by possibly serving to remediate sleep problems among older adults in the short term  and this effect appears to carry over into reducing sleep-related daytime impairment that has implications for quality of life. trial registration clinicaltrials.gov identifier: nct01534338.
2794,integrin αvβ8-mediated tgf-β activation by effector regulatory t cells is essential for suppression of t-cell-mediated inflammation,regulatory t (treg) cells play a pivotal role in suppressing self-harmful t cell responses  but how treg cells mediate suppression to maintain immune homeostasis and limit responses during inflammation is unclear. here we show that effector treg cells express high amounts of the integrin αvβ8  which enables them to activate latent transforming growth factor-β (tgf-β). treg-cell-specific deletion of integrin αvβ8 did not result in a spontaneous inflammatory phenotype  suggesting that this pathway is not important in treg-cell-mediated maintenance of immune homeostasis. however  treg cells lacking expression of integrin αvβ8 were unable to suppress pathogenic t cell responses during active inflammation. thus  our results identify a mechanism by which treg cells suppress exuberant immune responses  highlighting a key role for effector treg-cell-mediated activation of latent tgf-β in suppression of self-harmful t cell responses during active inflammation.
2796,choosing appropriate substitution models for the phylogenetic analysis of protein-coding sequences.,although phylogenetic inference of protein-coding sequences continues to dominate the literature  few analyses incorporate evolutionary models that consider the genetic code. this problem is exacerbated by the exclusion of codon-based models from commonly employed model selection techniques  presumably due to the computational cost associated with codon models. we investigated an efficient alternative to standard nucleotide substitution models  in which codon position (cp) is incorporated into the model. we determined the most appropriate model for alignments of 177 rna virus genes and 106 yeast genes  using 11 substitution models including one codon model and four cp models. the majority of analyzed gene alignments are best described by cp substitution models  rather than by standard nucleotide models  and without the computational cost of full codon models. these results have significant implications for phylogenetic inference of coding sequences as they make it clear that substitution models incorporating cps not only are a computationally realistic alternative to standard models but may also frequently be statistically superior.
2798,control of cns cell-fate decisions by shp-2 and its dysregulation in noonan syndrome,within the developing mammalian cns  growth factors direct multipotent precursors to generate neurons versus glia  a process that if perturbed might lead to neural dysfunction. in this regard  genetic mutations resulting in constitutive activation of the protein tyrosine phosphatase shp-2 cause noonan syndrome (ns)  which is associated with learning disabilities and mental retardation. here  we demonstrate that genetic knockdown of shp-2 in cultured cortical precursors or in the embryonic cortex inhibited basal neurogenesis and caused enhanced and precocious astrocyte formation. conversely  expression of an ns shp-2 mutant promoted neurogenesis and inhibited astrogenesis. neural cell-fate decisions were similarly perturbed in a mouse knockin model that phenocopies human ns. thus  shp-2 instructs precursors to make neurons and not astrocytes during the neurogenic period  and perturbations in the relative ratios of these two cell types upon constitutive shp-2 activation may contribute to the cognitive impairments in ns patients.
2800,rho gtpase signalling in cell migration,cells migrate in multiple different ways depending on their environment  which includes the extracellular matrix composition  interactions with other cells  and chemical stimuli. for all types of cell migration  rho gtpases play a central role  although the relative contribution of each rho gtpase depends on the environment and cell type. here  i review recent advances in our understanding of how rho gtpases contribute to different types of migration  comparing lamellipodium-driven versus bleb-driven migration modes. i also describe how cells migrate across the endothelium. in addition to rho  rac and cdc42  which are well known to regulate migration  i discuss the roles of other less-well characterized members of the rho family.
2802,operable non-small cell lung cancer diagnosed by transpleural techniques : do they affect relapse and prognosis?,study objective we assessed whether transpleural methods for diagnosing peripheral lung cancer  such as needle aspiration or tumor excision  affect relapse and prognosis  because these techniques have potential to spread malignant cells from the tumor. design a retrospective study. setting national referral hospital. patients we reviewed 239 patients who underwent surgery between 1990 and 1998 and for whom non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) of < 3 cm in maximum diameter was completely resected. the duration of postoperative follow-up ranged from 12 to 105 months  with a median period of 45 months. interventions we defined the transbronchial method as using a bronchoscope  and the transpleural method as using needle aspiration cytology or tumor excision. dichotomous variables included gender  histologic type of squamous cell carcinoma or other type of carcinoma  pathologic stage  and whether the diagnostic method was the transbronchial type only (first-line method) or the transpleural type (second-line method). results nsclc was diagnosed in 45 patients by the transpleural technique and in 194 patients by the transbronchial technique. there were no significant statistical differences in age of patients  gender  histologic type  pathologic stage  and tumor size. there were 42 relapses  7 in the transpleural technique group and 35 in the transbronchial technique group (p = 0.90). of the 7 patients in the transpleural group  there were 4 distant metastasis and 3 local relapses; of the 35 patients in the transbronchial group  there were 20 distant metastasis and 15 local relapses (p = 0.99). pleural carcinomatosis occurred in none of the 45 patients in the transpleural group and in 1 case (0.5%) in the 194 patients in the transbronchial group (p = 0.99). patients in the transpleural group had a statistically better 5-year survival rate than patients in the transbronchial group (79.4% vs 60.3%  p = 0.04). this is also confirmed as an independent prognostic factor in a multivariate analysis. conclusions transpleural methods seem to be an advisable way to diagnose operable lung cancer that is difficult to diagnose using bronchoscopy  because these methods did not affect relapse and prognosis in the patients in our study.
2804,reducing plasmodium falciparum malaria transmission in africa: a model-based evaluation of intervention strategies,background over the past decade malaria intervention coverage has been scaled up across africa. however  it remains unclear what overall reduction in transmission is achievable using currently available tools. methods and findings we developed an individual-based simulation model for plasmodium falciparum transmission in an african context incorporating the three major vector species (anopheles gambiae s.s.  an. arabiensis  and an. funestus) with parameters obtained by fitting to parasite prevalence data from 34 transmission settings across africa. we incorporated the effect of the switch to artemisinin-combination therapy (act) and increasing coverage of long-lasting insecticide treated nets (llins) from the year 2000 onwards. we then explored the impact on transmission of continued roll-out of llins  additional rounds of indoor residual spraying (irs)  mass screening and treatment (msat)  and a future rts s/as01 vaccine in six representative settings with varying transmission intensity (as summarized by the annual entomological inoculation rate  eir: 1 setting with low  3 with moderate  and 2 with high eirs)  vector-species combinations  and patterns of seasonality. in all settings we considered a realistic target of 80% coverage of interventions. in the low-transmission setting (eir approximately 3 ibppy [infectious bites per person per year])  llins have the potential to reduce malaria transmission to low levels (<1% parasite prevalence in all age-groups) provided usage levels are high and sustained. in two of the moderate-transmission settings (eir approximately 43 and 81 ibppy)  additional rounds of irs with ddt coupled with msat could drive parasite prevalence below a 1% threshold. however  in the third (eir = 46) with an. arabiensis prevailing  these interventions are insufficient to reach this threshold. in both high-transmission settings (eir approximately 586 and 675 ibppy)  either unrealistically high coverage levels (>90%) or novel tools and/or substantial social improvements will be required  although considerable reductions in prevalence can be achieved with existing tools and realistic coverage levels. conclusions interventions using current tools can result in major reductions in p. falciparum malaria transmission and the associated disease burden in africa. reduction to the 1% parasite prevalence threshold is possible in low- to moderate-transmission settings when vectors are primarily endophilic (indoor-resting)  provided a comprehensive and sustained intervention program is achieved through roll-out of interventions. in high-transmission settings and those in which vectors are mainly exophilic (outdoor-resting)  additional new tools that target exophagic (outdoor-biting)  exophilic  and partly zoophagic mosquitoes will be required.
2806,characteristics of body fat  body fat percentage and other body composition for koreans from knhanes iv,accurate measurement of fat mass has become increasingly important with the increasing incidence of obesity. we assessed fat and muscle mass of koreans with the korea national health and nutrition examination survey iv (knhanes iv). we studied 10 456 subjects (aged 20 to 85 yr; 4 476 men  5 980 women). fat and muscle mass were measured by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry. reference values of body compositions were obtained using the lms method. the fat mass index (fmi  body fat mass/height(2); kg/m(2)) of korean men did not correlate with age (p = 0.452)  but those of korean women (p < 0.001) did. the ratio of percentage of fat in the trunk and legs was positively related with age in both the genders. the appendicular lean mass/height(2) (kg/m(2)) of korean men was negatively related to age (p < 0.001). in women  this ratio increased with age (p < 0.001). when we defined obesity according to the fmi classification  the rates of obesity were 6.1% (fmi > 9 kg/m(2)) in men and 2.7% (fmi > 13 kg/m(2)) in women. it is concluded that the muscle mass decreases and obesity increases with aging in korean men  whereas both fat mass and obesity increase with aging in korean women.
2808,neurological outcomes of animal models of uterine artery ligation and relevance to human intrauterine growth restriction: a systematic review,aim this review explores the molecular  neurological  and behavioural outcomes in animal models of uterine artery ligation. we analyse the relevance of this type of model to the pathological and functional phenotypes that are consistent with cerebral palsy and its developmental comorbidities in humans. method a literature search of the pubmed database was conducted for research using the uterine artery ligation model published between 1990 and 2013. from the studies included  any relevant neuroanatomical and behavioural deficits were then summarized from each document and used for further analysis. results there were 25 papers that met the criteria included for review  and several outcomes were summarized from the results of these papers. fetuses with growth restriction demonstrated a gradient of reduced body weight with a relative sparing of brain mass. there was a significant reduction in the size of the somatosensory cortex  hippocampus  and corpus callosum. the motor cortex appeared to be spared of identifiable deficits. apoptotic proteins were upregulated  while those important to neuronal survival  growth  and differentiation were downregulated. neuronal apoptosis and astrogliosis occurred diffusely throughout the brain regions. white matter injury involved oligodendrocyte precursor maturation arrest  hypomyelination  and an aberrant organization of existing myelin. animals with growth restriction demonstrated deficits in gait  memory  object recognition  and spatial processing. interpretation this review concludes that neuronal death  white matter injury  motor abnormalities  and cognitive deficits are important outcomes of uterine artery ligation in animal models. therefore  this is a clinically relevant type of model  as these findings resemble deficits in human cerebral palsy.
2810,laminin-based cell adhesion anchors microtubule plus ends to the epithelial cell basal cortex through ll5α/β,ll5beta has been identified as a microtubule-anchoring factor that attaches eb1/clip-associating protein (clasp)-bound microtubule plus ends to the cell cortex. in this study  we show that ll5beta and its homologue ll5alpha (ll5s) colocalize with autocrine laminin-5 and its receptors  integrins alpha3beta1 and alpha6beta4  at the basal side of fully polarized epithelial sheets. depletion of both laminin receptor integrins abolishes the cortical localization of ll5s  whereas ll5 depletion reduces the amount of integrin alpha3 at the basal cell cortex. activation of integrin alpha3 is sufficient to initiate ll5 accumulation at the cell cortex. ll5s form a complex with the cytoplasmic tails of these integrins  but their interaction might be indirect. analysis of the three-dimensional distribution of microtubule growth by visualizing eb1-gfp in epithelial sheets in combination with rna interference reveals that ll5s are required to maintain the density of growing microtubules selectively at the basal cortex. these findings reveal that signaling from laminin-integrin associations attaches microtubule plus ends to the epithelial basal cell cortex.
2812,pilot testing of dipsticks as point-of-care assays for rapid diagnosis of poor-quality artemisinin drugs in endemic settings,background good-quality artemisinin drugs are essential for malaria treatment  but increasing prevalence of poor-quality artemisinin drugs in many endemic countries hinders effective management of malaria cases. methods to develop a point-of-care assay for rapid identification of counterfeit and substandard artemisinin drugs for resource-limited areas  we used specific monoclonal antibodies against artesunate and artemether  and developed prototypes of lateral flow dipstick assays. in this pilot test  we evaluated the feasibility of these dipsticks under different endemic settings and their performance in the hands of untrained personnel. results the results showed that the dipstick tests can be successfully performed by different investigators with the included instruction sheet. none of the artemether and artesunate drugs collected from public pharmacies in different endemic countries failed the test. conclusion it is possible that the simple dipstick assays  with future optimization of test conditions and sensitivity  can be used as a qualitative and semi-quantitative assay for rapid screening of counterfeit artemisinin drugs in endemic settings.
2814,construction of escherichia coli k-12 in-frame  single-gene knockout mutants: the keio collection,we have systematically made a set of precisely defined  single‐gene deletions of all nonessential genes in escherichia coli k‐12. open‐reading frame coding regions were replaced with a kanamycin cassette flanked by flp recognition target sites by using a one‐step method for inactivation of chromosomal genes and primers designed to create in‐frame deletions upon excision of the resistance cassette. of 4288 genes targeted  mutants were obtained for 3985. to alleviate problems encountered in high‐throughput studies  two independent mutants were saved for every deleted gene. these mutants—the ‘keio collection’—provide a new resource not only for systematic analyses of unknown gene functions and gene regulatory networks but also for genome‐wide testing of mutational effects in a common strain background  e . coli k‐12 bw25113. we were unable to disrupt 303 genes  including 37 of unknown function  which are candidates for essential genes. distribution is being handled via genobase (http://ecoli.aist‐nara.ac.jp/).
2816,interleukin-6 receptor pathways in coronary heart disease: a collaborative meta-analysis of 82 studies,background persistent inflammation has been proposed to contribute to various stages in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular disease. interleukin-6 receptor (il6r) signalling propagates downstream inflammation cascades. to assess whether this pathway is causally relevant to coronary heart disease  we studied a functional genetic variant known to affect il6r signalling. methods in a collaborative meta-analysis  we studied asp358ala (rs2228145) in il6r in relation to a panel of conventional risk factors and inflammation biomarkers in 125 222 participants. we also compared the frequency of asp358ala in 51 441 patients with coronary heart disease and in 136 226 controls. to gain insight into possible mechanisms  we assessed asp358ala in relation to localised gene expression and to postlipopolysaccharide stimulation of interleukin 6. findings the minor allele frequency of asp358ala was 39%. asp358ala was not associated with lipid concentrations  blood pressure  adiposity  dysglycaemia  or smoking (p value for association per minor allele ≥0·04 for each). by contrast  for every copy of 358ala inherited  mean concentration of il6r increased by 34·3% (95% ci 30·4-38·2) and of interleukin 6 by 14·6% (10·7-18·4)  and mean concentration of c-reactive protein was reduced by 7·5% (5·9-9·1) and of fibrinogen by 1·0% (0·7-1·3). for every copy of 358ala inherited  risk of coronary heart disease was reduced by 3·4% (1·8-5·0). asp358ala was not related to il6r mrna levels or interleukin-6 production in monocytes. interpretation large-scale human genetic and biomarker data are consistent with a causal association between il6r-related pathways and coronary heart disease. funding british heart foundation; uk medical research council; uk national institute of health research  cambridge biomedical research centre; bupa foundation.
2818,quantitative analysis of tumor-derived methylated p16ink4a sequences in plasma  serum  and blood cells of hepatocellular carcinoma patients.,purpose and experimental design using real-time quantitative methylation-specific pcr (rtq-msp)  we quantified methylated p16ink4a sequences and determined the fractional concentrations of circulating tumor dna in plasma  serum  and peripheral blood cells collected preoperatively  intraoperatively  and postoperatively from 49 patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc). results rtq-msp was sufficiently sensitive to detect down to 10 genome-equivalents of methylated p16ink4a sequences. quantitative msp data were expressed in terms of the methylation index  which was the percentage of bisulfite converted unmethylated and methylated p16ink4a sequences that consisted of methylated p16ink4a sequences. quantities of methylated p16ink4a sequences were detected in peripheral circulation of 80% (23 of 29) of hcc patients. no significant difference was seen in the detectability and concentrations of methylated p16ink4a sequences (range: 10-4046 genome-equivalents/ml) between preoperative plasma and serum samples from hcc patients. preoperatively  the p16ink4a methylation indices ranged from 0.2 to 100% and from 0.012 to 0.075% in the patients' plasma and buffy coat samples  respectively. after surgical resection  the median p16ink4a methylation indices in plasma and buffy coat concordantly decreased 12- and 15-fold  respectively. these results demonstrated the clinical usefulness and effectiveness of peripheral blood rtq-msp for detecting and monitoring hcc after treatment. furthermore  none of the intraoperative plasma samples and only two of the intraoperative buffy coat samples were p16ink4a methylation positive. conclusions quantification of epigenetic changes in peripheral blood by rtq-msp is useful for the detection and monitoring of hcc.
2820,4-1bb costimulation ameliorates t cell exhaustion induced by tonic signaling of chimeric antigen receptors,chimeric antigen receptors (cars) targeting cd19 have mediated dramatic antitumor responses in hematologic malignancies  but tumor regression has rarely occurred using cars targeting other antigens. it remains unknown whether the impressive effects of cd19 cars relate to greater susceptibility of hematologic malignancies to car therapies  or superior functionality of the cd19 car itself. we show that tonic car cd3-ζ phosphorylation  triggered by antigen-independent clustering of car single-chain variable fragments  can induce early exhaustion of car t cells that limits antitumor efficacy. such activation is present to varying degrees in all cars studied  except the highly effective cd19 car. we further determine that cd28 costimulation augments  whereas 4-1bb costimulation reduces  exhaustion induced by persistent car signaling. our results provide biological explanations for the antitumor effects of cd19 cars and for the observations that cd19 car t cells incorporating the 4-1bb costimulatory domain are more persistent than those incorporating cd28 in clinical trials.
2822,inducing tumor immunity through the selective engagement of activating fcγ receptors on dendritic cells,induction of tumor-specific immunity requires that dendritic cells (dcs) efficiently capture and present tumor antigens to result in the expansion and activation of tumor-specific cytotoxic t cells. the transition from antigen capture to t cell stimulation requires a maturation signal; in its absence tolerance  rather than immunity may develop. while immune complexes (ics) are able to enhance antigen capture  they can be poor at inducing dc maturation  naive t cell activation and protective immunity. we now demonstrate that interfering with the inhibitory signal delivered by fcγriib on dcs converts ics to potent maturation agents and results in t cell activation. applying this approach to immunization with dcs pulsed ex-vivo with ics  we have generated antigen-specific cd8+ t cells in vivo and achieved efficient protective immunity in a murine melanoma model. these data imply that ics may normally function to maintain tolerance through the binding to inhibitory fcγrs on dcs  but they can be converted to potent immunogenic stimuli by selective engagement of activating fcγrs. this mechanism suggests a novel approach to the development of tumor vaccines.
2824,expression and purification of recombinant methylated hbha in mycobacterium smegmatis.,the heparin-binding haemagglutinin (hbha) is a mycobacterial adhesin involved in the dissemination of mycobacterium tuberculosis from the site of primary infection and a potential candidate for the development of a new vaccine against tuberculosis. methylation of hbha is a novel post-translational event that imparts important immunological properties to the protein. since recombinant hbha expressed in escherichia coli is not methylated  we investigated the possibility of producing recombinant methylated hbha in fast growing mycobacteria for use in immunological and biochemical studies. the complete coding sequence of hbha was cloned in the plasmid pmv206  under the control of a strong promoter (hsp60) or its own promoter. the constructs generated were electroporated into mycobacterium smegmatis and the recombinant strains obtained were analyzed for the presence of the hbha protein using the anti-hbha monoclonal antibodies d2 and e4. our results indicate that expression of high amounts of intact protein can be toxic for the mycobacteria  that methylated hbha can be obtained in m. smegmatis only when using a promoter sequence weaker than hsp60 and that the expression of the complete structural gene is required in order to obtain methylated hbha. we constructed a recombinant m. smegmatis strain (pmv3-38) that expresses a histidine-tagged methylated hbha that can be easily purified. the use of fast-growing strains of m. smegmatis to obtain significant amounts of purified hbha protein within a short timeframe  should be an effective strategy for the evaluation of a new hbha-based vaccine candidate for tuberculosis.
2826,noise and interlocking signaling pathways promote distinct transcription factor dynamics in response to different stresses,all cells perceive and respond to environmental stresses through elaborate stress-sensing networks. yeast cells sense stress through diverse signaling pathways that converge on the transcription factors msn2 and msn4  which respond by initiating rapid  idiosyncratic cycles into and out of the nucleus. to understand the role of msn2/4 nuclear localization dynamics  we combined time-lapse studies of msn2-gfp localization in living cells with computational modeling of stress-sensing signaling networks. we find that several signaling pathways  including ras/protein kinase a  amp-activated kinase  the high-osmolarity response mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway  and protein phosphatase 1  regulate activation of msn2 in distinct ways in response to different stresses. moreover  we find that bursts of nuclear localization elicit a more robust transcriptional response than does sustained nuclear localization. using stochastic modeling  we reproduce in silico the responses of msn2 to different stresses  and demonstrate that bursts of localization arise from noise in the signaling pathways amplified by the small number of msn2 molecules in the cell. this noise imparts diverse behaviors to genetically identical cells  allowing cell populations to "hedge their bets" in responding to an uncertain future  and to balance growth and survival in an unpredictable environment.
2828,cell-mediated immunity and antibody responses elicited by attenuated salmonella enterica serovar typhi strains used as live oral vaccines in humans.,the development of improved typhoid vaccines is a high global public health priority. however  their development has been hampered by a lack of information regarding the specific determinants of protective immunity to salmonella enterica serovar typhi (s. typhi) infection in humans. although antibodies to s. typhi o  h  and vi appear to be involved in protection against s. typhi infection  it is unknown whether such antibodies mediate protection  act in conjunction with other adaptive responses  or serve as a surrogate for the presence of other  more dominant protective immune responses (e.g.  cell-mediated immunity [cmi]). cmi responses elicited by immunization of subjects with attenuated s. typhi oral vaccines include lymphoproliferation; production of type 1 cytokines (e.g.  interferon- gamma and tumor necrosis factor- alpha ); and classical major histocompatibility complex (mhc) class ia-restricted and novel  nonclassical mhc class ib (human leukocyte antigen [hla]-e)-restricted cd8(+) cytotoxic t cell responses. in sum  human immunity to s. typhi elicited by immunization is unexpectedly broad and complex. however  the immunologic correlates of protection remain largely undefined.
2830,resazurin microtiter assay plate: simple and inexpensive method for detection of drug resistance in mycobacterium tuberculosis.,a method for detecting multidrug-resistant mycobacterium tuberculosis by using a reduction of resazurin is described. eighty clinical isolates were evaluated against isoniazid and rifampin; results at 7 days were compared with those of the proportion method. specificity and sensitivity were excellent. the method is simple  inexpensive  and rapid and might be used with other antituberculosis drugs.
2832,gene–environment interactions in 7610 women with breast cancer: prospective evidence from the million women study,background information is scarce about the combined effects on breast cancer incidence of low-penetrance genetic susceptibility polymorphisms and environmental factors (reproductive  behavioural  and anthropometric risk factors for breast cancer). to test for evidence of gene-environment interactions  we compared genotypic relative risks for breast cancer across the other risk factors in a large uk prospective study. methods we tested gene-environment interactions in 7610 women who developed breast cancer and 10 196 controls without the disease  studying the effects of 12 polymorphisms (fgfr2-rs2981582  tnrc9-rs3803662  2q35-rs13387042  map3k1-rs889312  8q24-rs13281615  2p-rs4666451  5p12-rs981782  casp8-rs1045485  lsp1-rs3817198  5q-rs30099  tgfb1-rs1982073  and atm-rs1800054) in relation to prospectively collected information about ten established environmental risk factors (age at menarche  parity  age at first birth  breastfeeding  menopausal status  age at menopause  use of hormone replacement therapy  body-mass index  height  and alcohol consumption). findings after allowance for multiple testing none of the 120 comparisons yielded significant evidence of a gene-environment interaction. by contrast with previous suggestions  there was little evidence that the genotypic relative risks were affected by use of hormone replacement therapy  either overall or for oestrogen-receptor-positive disease. only one of the 12 polymorphisms was correlated with any of the ten other risk factors: carriers of the high-risk c allele of map3k1-rs889312 were significantly shorter than non-carriers (mean height 162.4 cm [95% ci 162.1-162.7] vs 163.1 cm [162.9-163.2]; p=0.01 after allowance for multiple testing). interpretation risks of breast cancer associated with low-penetrance susceptibility polymorphisms do not vary significantly with these ten established environmental risk factors. funding cancer research uk and the uk medical research council.
2834,ampa receptor ligand binding domain mobility revealed by functional cross linking.,glutamate receptors mediate the majority of excitatory synaptic transmission in the cns. the ampa-subtype has rapid kinetics  with activation  deactivation and desensitization proceeding on the millisecond timescale or faster. crystallographic  biochemical  and functional studies suggest that glur2 cys mutants which form intermolecular disulfide cross-links between the lower d2 lobes of the ligand binding cores can be trapped in a conformation that represents the desensitized state. we used multi-channel rapid perfusion techniques to examine the state dependence of cross-linking in these mutants. under reducing conditions  both wild-type glur2 and the g725c and s729c mutants have normal activation and desensitization kinetics  but the cys mutants can be efficiently trapped in nonconducting states when oxidized. in contrast the i664c mutant is only partially inactivated under oxidizing conditions. for s729c  disulfide cross-links form rapidly when receptors are desensitized in the presence of glutamate  but receptors also become trapped at rest  in the absence of agonist. we assessed such spontaneous trapping in various conditions  including cnqx  a competitive antagonist; kainate  a weak partial agonist; or when desensitization was blocked by the l483y mutation that stabilizes the d1 dimer interface. these experiments suggest that trapping in the absence of glutamate is due to two motions: spontaneous breaking of the d1 dimer interface and hyperextension of the lower lobes of the ligand binding core. these data show that the glutamate binding domains are surprisingly mobile in the absence of ligand  which could influence receptor activity in the brain.
2836,oxidative damage targets complexes containing dna methyltransferases  sirt1  and polycomb members to promoter cpg islands.,cancer cells simultaneously harbor global losses and gains in dna methylation. we demonstrate that inducing cellular oxidative stress by hydrogen peroxide treatment recruits dna methyltransferase 1 (dnmt1) to damaged chromatin. dnmt1 becomes part of a complex(es) containing dnmt3b and members of the polycomb repressive complex 4. hydrogen peroxide treatment causes relocalization of these proteins from non-gc-rich to gc-rich areas. key components are similarly enriched at gene promoters in an in vivo colitis model. although high-expression genes enriched for members of the complex have histone mark and nascent transcription changes  cpg island-containing low-expression genes gain promoter dna methylation. thus  oxidative damage induces formation and relocalization of a silencing complex that may explain cancer-specific aberrant dna methylation and transcriptional silencing.
2838,in vivo proliferation and cell cycle kinetics of long-term self-renewing hematopoietic stem cells.,a rare set of hematopoietic stem cells (hsc) must undergo a massive expansion to produce mature blood cells. the phenotypic isolation of hsc from mice offers the opportunity to determine directly their proliferation kinetics. we analyzed the proliferation and cell cycle kinetics of long-term self-renewing hsc (lt-hsc) in normal adult mice. at any one time  approximately 5% of lt-hsc were in s/g2/m phases of the cell cycle and another 20% were in g1 phase. brdurd incorporation was used to determine the rate at which different cohorts of hsc entered the cell cycle over time. about 50% of lt-hsc incorporated brdurd by 6 days and >90% incorporated brdurd by 30 days. by 6 months  99% of lt-hsc had incorporated brdurd. we calculated that approximately 8% of lt-hsc asynchronously entered the cell cycle per day. nested reverse transcription-pcr analysis revealed cyclin d2 expression in a high proportion of lt-hsc. although approximately 75% of lt-hsc are quiescent in g0 at any one time  all hsc are recruited into cycle regularly such that 99% of lt-hsc divide on average every 57 days.
2840,the natural statistics of audiovisual speech,humans  like other animals  are exposed to a continuous stream of signals  which are dynamic  multimodal  extended  and time varying in nature. this complex input space must be transduced and sampled by our sensory systems and transmitted to the brain where it can guide the selection of appropriate actions. to simplify this process  it's been suggested that the brain exploits statistical regularities in the stimulus space. tests of this idea have largely been confined to unimodal signals and natural scenes. one important class of multisensory signals for which a quantitative input space characterization is unavailable is human speech. we do not understand what signals our brain has to actively piece together from an audiovisual speech stream to arrive at a percept versus what is already embedded in the signal structure of the stream itself. in essence  we do not have a clear understanding of the natural statistics of audiovisual speech. in the present study  we identified the following major statistical features of audiovisual speech. first  we observed robust correlations and close temporal correspondence between the area of the mouth opening and the acoustic envelope. second  we found the strongest correlation between the area of the mouth opening and vocal tract resonances. third  we observed that both area of the mouth opening and the voice envelope are temporally modulated in the 2-7 hz frequency range. finally  we show that the timing of mouth movements relative to the onset of the voice is consistently between 100 and 300 ms. we interpret these data in the context of recent neural theories of speech which suggest that speech communication is a reciprocally coupled  multisensory event  whereby the outputs of the signaler are matched to the neural processes of the receiver.
2842,thyroid hormone receptor repression linked to type i pneumocyte associated respiratory distress syndrome,although the lung is a defining feature of air-breathing animals  the pathway controlling the formation of type i pneumocytes  the cells that mediate gas exchange  is poorly understood. in contrast  the glucocorticoid receptor and its cognate ligand have long been known to promote type ii pneumocyte maturation; prenatal administration of glucocorticoids is commonly used to attenuate the severity of infant respiratory distress syndrome (rds). here we show that knock-in mutations of the nuclear co-repressor smrt (silencing mediator of retinoid and thyroid hormone receptors) in c57bl/6 mice (smrtmrid) produces a previously unidentified respiratory distress syndrome caused by prematurity of the type i pneumocyte. though unresponsive to glucocorticoids  treatment with anti-thyroid hormone drugs (propylthiouracil or methimazole) completely rescues smrt-induced rds  suggesting an unrecognized and essential role for the thyroid hormone receptor (tr) in lung development. we show that tr and smrt control type i pneumocyte differentiation through klf2  which  in turn  seems to directly activate the type i pneumocyte gene program. conversely  mice without lung klf2 lack mature type i pneumocytes and die shortly after birth  closely recapitulating the smrtmrid phenotype. these results identify tr as a second nuclear receptor involved in lung development  specifically type i pneumocyte differentiation  and suggest a possible new type of therapeutic option in the treatment of rds that is unresponsive to glucocorticoids.
2844,immunological mechanisms for desensitization and tolerance in food allergy,food allergy is a major public health concern in westernized countries  estimated to affect 5 % of children and 3–4 % of adults. allergen-specific immunotherapy for food allergy is currently being actively evaluated  but is still experimental. the optimal protocol  in terms of the route of administration of the food  target maintenance dose  and duration of maintenance therapy  and the optimal patient for these procedures are still being worked out. the mechanisms underlying successful food desensitization are also unclear  in part  because there is no standard immunotherapy protocol. the mechanisms involved  however  may include mast cell and basophil suppression  development of food-specific igg4 antibodies  reduction in the food-specific ige/igg4 ratio  up-regulation and expansion of natural or inducible regulatory t cells  a skewing from a th2 to a th1 profile  and the development of anergy and/or deletion in antigen-specific cells. additional studies are required to elucidate and understand these mechanisms by which desensitization and tolerance are achieved  which may reveal valuable biomarkers for evaluating and following food allergic patients on immunotherapy.
2846,erythroid krüppel-like factor directly activates the basic krüppel-like factor gene in erythroid cells �,the sp/krüppel-like factor (sp/klf) family is comprised of around 25 zinc finger transcription factors that recognize caccc boxes and gc-rich elements. we have investigated basic krüppel-like factor (bklf/klf3) and show that in erythroid tissues its expression is highly dependent on another family member  erythroid krüppel-like factor (eklf/klf1). we observe that bklf mrna is significantly reduced in erythroid tissues from eklf-null murine embryos. we find that bklf is driven primarily by two promoters  a ubiquitously active gc-rich upstream promoter  1a  and an erythroid downstream promoter  1b. transcripts from the two promoters encode identical proteins. interestingly  both the ubiquitous and the erythroid promoter are dependent on eklf in erythroid cells. eklf also activates both promoters in transient assays. experiments utilizing an inducible form of eklf demonstrate activation of the endogenous bklf gene in the presence of an inhibitor of protein synthesis. the kinetics of activation are also consistent with bklf being a direct eklf target. chromatin immunoprecipitation assays confirm that eklf associates with both bklf promoters. eklf is typically an activator of transcription  whereas bklf is noted as a repressor. our results support the hypothesis that feedback cross-regulation occurs within the sp/klf family in vivo.
2848,a cluster of ribosome synthesis factors regulate pre-rrna folding and 5.8s rrna maturation by the rat1 exonuclease,the 5'-exonuclease rat1 degrades pre-rrna spacer fragments and processes the 5'-ends of the 5.8s and 25s rrnas. uv crosslinking revealed multiple rat1-binding sites across the pre-rrna  consistent with its known functions. the major 5.8s 5'-end is generated by rat1 digestion of the internal transcribed spacer 1 (its1) spacer from cleavage site a(3). processing from a(3) requires the 'a(3)-cluster' proteins  including cic1  erb1  nop7  nop12 and nop15  which show interdependent pre-rrna binding. surprisingly  a(3)-cluster factors were not crosslinked close to site a(3)  but bound sites around the 5.8s 3'- and 25s 5'-regions  which are base paired in mature ribosomes  and in the its2 spacer that separates these rrnas. in contrast  nop4  a protein required for endonucleolytic cleavage in its1  binds the pre-rrna near the 5'-end of 5.8s. its2 was reported to undergo structural remodelling. in vivo chemical probing indicates that a(3)-cluster binding is required for this reorganization  potentially regulating the timing of processing. we predict that nop4 and the a(3) cluster establish long-range interactions between the 5.8s and 25s rrnas  which are subsequently maintained by ribosomal protein binding.
2850,the immune response to melanoma is limited by thymic selection of self-antigens,the expression of melanoma-associated antigens (maa) being limited to normal melanocytes and melanomas  maas are ideal targets for immunotherapy and melanoma vaccines. as maas are derived from self  immune responses to these may be limited by thymic tolerance. the extent to which self-tolerance prevents efficient immune responses to maas remains unknown. the autoimmune regulator (aire) controls the expression of tissue-specific self-antigens in thymic epithelial cells (tecs). the level of antigens expressed in the tecs determines the fate of auto-reactive thymocytes. deficiency in aire leads in both humans (apeced patients) and mice to enlarged autoreactive immune repertoires. here we show increased igg levels to melanoma cells in apeced patients correlating with autoimmune skin features. similarly  the enlarged t cell repertoire in aire(-/-) mice enables them to mount anti-maa and anti-melanoma responses as shown by increased anti-melanoma antibodies  and enhanced cd4(+) and maa-specific cd8(+) t cell responses after melanoma challenge. we show that thymic expression of gp100 is under the control of aire  leading to increased gp100-specific cd8(+) t cell frequencies in aire(-/-) mice. trp-2 (tyrosinase-related protein)  on the other hand  is absent from tecs and consequently trp-2 specific cd8(+) t cells were found in both aire(-/-) and aire(+/+) mice. this study emphasizes the importance of investigating thymic expression of self-antigens prior to their inclusion in vaccination and immunotherapy strategies.
2852,microscope—an integrated microbial resource for the curation and comparative analysis of genomic and metabolic data,microscope is an integrated platform dedicated to both the methodical updating of microbial genome annotation and to comparative analysis. the resource provides data from completed and ongoing genome projects (automatic and expert annotations)  together with data sources from post-genomic experiments (i.e. transcriptomics  mutant collections) allowing users to perfect and improve the understanding of gene functions. microscope (http://www.genoscope.cns.fr/agc/microscope) combines tools and graphical interfaces to analyse genomes and to perform the manual curation of gene annotations in a comparative context. since its first publication in january 2006  the system (previously named mage for magnifying genomes) has been continuously extended both in terms of data content and analysis tools. the last update of microscope was published in 2009 in the database journal. today  the resource contains data for >1600 microbial genomes  of which ∼300 are manually curated and maintained by biologists (1200 personal accounts today). expert annotations are continuously gathered in the microscope database (∼50 000 a year)  contributing to the improvement of the quality of microbial genomes annotations. improved data browsing and searching tools have been added  original tools useful in the context of expert annotation have been developed and integrated and the website has been significantly redesigned to be more user-friendly. furthermore  in the context of the european project microme (framework program 7 collaborative project)  microscope is becoming a resource providing for the curation and analysis of both genomic and metabolic data. an increasing number of projects are related to the study of environmental bacterial (meta)genomes that are able to metabolize a large variety of chemical compounds that may be of high industrial interest.
2854,retinoic acid inhibits th17 polarization and enhances foxp3 expression through a stat-3/stat-5 independent signaling pathway.,cd4(+) helper t (th) cells play a crucial role in the delicate balance between host defense and autoimmune disease. two important populations of helper t cells are the proinflammatory  interleukin-17 (il-17)-producing (th17) cells and the anti-inflammatory forkhead box p3-positive (foxp3(+)) t regulatory (treg) cells. here we show that all-trans retinoic acid (atra) and other agonists of the retinoic acid receptor alpha (raralpha) inhibit the formation of th17 cells and promote foxp3 expression. conversely  inhibition of retinoic acid signaling constrains transforming growth factor beta (tgf-beta1) induction of foxp3. the effect of atra is mediated independently of il-2  signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 (stat5) and stat3  representing a novel mechanism for the induction of foxp3 in cd4 t cells. as previous studies have shown that vitamin a derivatives are protective in animal models of autoimmune disease  the current data suggest a previously unrecognized role for raralpha in the regulation of cd4(+) t-cell differentiation and provide a mechanism for the anti-inflammatory effects of retinoic acid.
2856,achieving increased resolution and more pixels with superresolution optical fluctuation imaging (sofi),superresolution optical fluctuation imaging (sofi) as initially demonstrated allows for a resolution enhancement in imaging by a factor of square-root of two. here  we demonstrate how to increase the resolution of sofi images by re-weighting the optical transfer function (otf). furthermore  we demonstrate how cross-cumulants can be exploited to obtain a fair approximation of the underlying point-spread function. we show a two-fold increase of resolution (over the diffraction limit) of near-infrared quantum dot labeled tubulin-network of 3t3 fibroblasts.
2858,wnt5a functions in planar cell polarity regulation in mice.,planar cell polarity (pcp) refers to the polarization of cells within the plane of a cell sheet. a distinctive epithelial pcp in vertebrates is the uniform orientation of stereociliary bundles of the sensory hair cells in the mammalian cochlea. in addition to establishing epithelial pcp  planar polarization is also required for convergent extension (ce); a polarized cellular movement that occurs during neural tube closure and cochlear extension. studies in drosophila and vertebrates have revealed a conserved pcp pathway  including frizzled (fz) receptors. here we use the cochlea as a model system to explore the involvement of known ligands of fz  wnt morphogens  in pcp regulation. we show that wnt5a forms a reciprocal expression pattern with a wnt antagonist  the secreted frizzled-related protein 3 (sfrp3 or frzb)  along the axis of planar polarization in the cochlear epithelium. we further demonstrate that wnt5a antagonizes frzb in regulating cochlear extension and stereociliary bundle orientation in vitro  and that wnt5a(-/-) animals have a shortened and widened cochlea. finally  we show that wnt5a is required for proper subcellular distribution of a pcp protein  ltap/vangl2  and that wnt5a interacts genetically with ltap/vangl2 for uniform orientation of stereocilia  cochlear extension  and neural tube closure. together  these findings demonstrate that wnt5a functions in pcp regulation in mice.
2860,how reliable are light traps in estimating biting rates of adult anopheles gambiae s.l. (diptera: culicidae) in the presence of treated bed nets?,the sampling efficiency of light trap catches relative to human bait catches in estimating biting rates of the mosquito anopheles gambiae giles was investigated in two types of community in southern sierra leone: (i) where most of the inhabitants slept under treated bed nets; and (ii) where most of the inhabitants slept without bed nets. the number of female a. gambiae mosquitoes caught in these communities by light trap was strongly correlated (r > or = 0.72) with those from corresponding human biting catches performed either on the same or adjacent nights. it was found that the relative sampling efficiency of light traps varied slightly but significantly with mosquito abundance in villages with treated bed nets  but not in those without them. nevertheless  the relationship between relative sampling efficiency and mosquito abundance did not differ significantly between the two types of village. overall  there was insufficient evidence to show that the presence of treated nets altered the relative efficiency of light traps and any bias was only slight  and unlikely to be of any practical importance. hence  it was concluded that light traps can be used as a surrogate for human bait catches in estimating biting rates of a. gambiae mosquitoes in the two communities.
2862,research letters,we report a case of preclinical variant creutzfeldt-jakob disease (vcjd) in a patient who died from a non-neurological disorder 5 years after receiving a blood transfusion from a donor who subsequently developed vcjd. protease-resistant prion protein (prp(res)) was detected by western blot  paraffin-embedded tissue blot  and immunohistochemistry in the spleen  but not in the brain. immunohistochemistry for prion protein was also positive in a cervical lymph node. the patient was a heterozygote at codon 129 of prnp  suggesting that susceptibility to vcjd infection is not confined to the methionine homozygous prnp genotype. these findings have major implications for future estimates and surveillance of vcjd in the uk.
2864,prediction of guide strand of micrornas from its sequence and secondary structure,background micrornas (mirnas) are produced by the sequential processing of a long hairpin rna transcript by drosha and dicer  an rnase iii enzymes  and form transitory small rna duplexes. one strand of the duplex  which incorporates into rna-induced silencing complex (risc) and silences the gene expression is called guide strand  or mirna; while the other strand of duplex is degraded and called the passenger strand  or mirna*. predicting the guide strand of mirna is important for better understanding the rna interference pathways. results this paper describes support vector machine (svm) models developed for predicting the guide strands of mirnas. all models were trained and tested on a dataset consisting of 329 mirna and 329 mirna* pairs using five fold cross validation technique. firstly  models were developed using mono-  di-  and tri-nucleotide composition of mirna strands and achieved the highest accuracies of 0.588  0.638 and 0.596 respectively. secondly  models were developed using split nucleotide composition and achieved maximum accuracies of 0.553  0.641 and 0.602 for mono-  di-  and tri-nucleotide respectively. thirdly  models were developed using binary pattern and achieved the highest accuracy of 0.708. furthermore  when integrating the secondary structure features with binary pattern  an accuracy of 0.719 was seen. finally  hybrid models were developed by combining various features and achieved maximum accuracy of 0.799 with sensitivity 0.781 and specificity 0.818. moreover  the performance of this model was tested on an independent dataset that achieved an accuracy of 0.80. in addition  we also compared the performance of our method with various sirna-designing methods on mirna and sirna datasets. conclusion in this study  first time a method has been developed to predict guide mirna strands  of mirna duplex. this study demonstrates that guide and passenger strand of mirna precursors can be distinguished using their nucleotide sequence and secondary structure. this method will be useful in understanding microrna processing and can be implemented in rna silencing technology to improve the biological and clinical research. a web server has been developed based on svm models described in this study (http://crdd.osdd.net:8081/riscbinder/).
2866,impaired fancd2 monoubiquitination and hypersensitivity to camptothecin uniquely characterize fanconi anemia complementation group m.,fancm is a component of the fanconi anemia (fa) core complex and one fa patient (eufa867) with biallelic mutations in fancm has been described. strikingly  we found that eufa867 also carries biallelic mutations in fanca. after correcting the fanca defect in eufa867 lymphoblasts  a "clean" fa-m cell line was generated. these cells were hypersensitive to mitomycin c  but unlike cells defective in other core complex members  fancm(-/-) cells were proficient in monoubiquitinating fancd2 and were sensitive to the topoisomerase inhibitor camptothecin  a feature shared only with the fa subtype d1 and n. in addition  fancm(-/-) cells were sensitive to uv light. fancm and a c-terminal deletion mutant rescued the cross-linker sensitivity of fancm(-/-) cells  whereas a fancm atpase mutant did not. because both mutants restored the formation of fancd2 foci  we conclude that fancm functions in an fa core complex-dependent and -independent manner.
2868,rb loss in resistant egfr mutant lung adenocarcinomas that transform to small-cell lung cancer,tyrosine kinase inhibitors are effective treatments for non-small-cell lung cancers (nsclcs) with epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) mutations. however  relapse typically occurs after an average of 1 year of continuous treatment. a fundamental histological transformation from nsclc to small-cell lung cancer (sclc) is observed in a subset of the resistant cancers  but the molecular changes associated with this transformation remain unknown. analysis of tumour samples and cell lines derived from resistant egfr mutant patients revealed that retinoblastoma (rb) is lost in 100% of these sclc transformed cases  but rarely in those that remain nsclc. further  increased neuroendocrine marker and decreased egfr expression as well as greater sensitivity to bcl2 family inhibition are observed in resistant sclc transformed cancers compared with resistant nsclcs. together  these findings suggest that this subset of resistant cancers ultimately adopt many of the molecular and phenotypic characteristics of classical sclc.
2870,preferential occupancy of histone variant h2az at inactive promoters influences local histone modifications and chromatin remodeling.,the yeast histone variant h2az (htz1) is implicated in transcription activation  prevention of the ectopic spread of heterochromatin  and genome integrity. our genome-wide localization analysis revealed that htz1 is widely  but nonrandomly  distributed throughout the genome in an swr1-dependent manner. we found that htz1 is enriched in intergenic regions compared with coding regions. its occupancy is inversely proportional to transcription rates and the enrichment of the rna polymerase ii under different growth conditions. however  htz1 does not seem to directly regulate transcription repression genome-wide; instead  the presence of htz1 under the inactivated condition is essential for optimal activation of a subset of genes. in addition  htz1 is not generally responsible for nucleosome positioning  even at those promoters where htz1 is highly enriched. finally  using a biochemical approach  we demonstrate that incorporation of htz1 into nucleosomes inhibits activities of histone modifiers associated with transcription  dot1  set2  and nua4 and reduces the nucleosome mobilization driven by chromatin remodeling complexes. these lines of evidence collectively suggest that htz1 may serve to mark quiescent promoters for proper activation.
2872,endometrial carcinoma risk among women diagnosed with endometrial hyperplasia: the 34-year experience in a large health plan,classifying endometrial hyperplasia (eh) according to the severity of glandular crowding (simple hyperplasia (sh) vs complex hyperplasia (ch)) and nuclear atypia (simple atypical hyperplasia (sah) vs complex atypical hyperplasia (cah)) should predict subsequent endometrial carcinoma risk  but data on progression are lacking. our nested case–control study of eh progression included 138 cases  who were diagnosed with eh and then with carcinoma (1970–2003) at least 1 year (median  6.5 years) later  and 241 controls  who were individually matched on age  date  and follow-up duration and counter-matched on eh classification. after centralised pathology panel and medical record review  we generated rate ratios (rrs) and 95% confidence intervals (cis)  adjusted for treatment and repeat biopsies. with disordered proliferative endometrium (dpem) as the referent  ah significantly increased carcinoma risk (rr=14  95% ci  5–38). risk was highest 1–5 years after ah (rr=48  95% ci  8–294)  but remained elevated 5 or more years after ah (rr=3.5  95% ci  1.0–9.6). progression risks for sh (rr=2.0  95% ci  0.9–4.5) and ch (rr=2.8  95% ci  1.0–7.9) were substantially lower and only slightly higher than the progression risk for dpem. the higher progression risks for ah could foster management guidelines based on markedly different progression risks for atypical vs non-atypical eh.
2874,assessment of volume depletion in children with malaria,background the degree of volume depletion in severe malaria is currently unknown  although knowledge of fluid compartment volumes can guide therapy. to assist management of severely ill children  and to test the hypothesis that volume changes in fluid compartments reflect disease severity  we measured body compartment volumes in gabonese children with malaria. methods and findings total body water volume (tbw) and extracellular water volume (ecw) were estimated in children with severe or moderate malaria and in convalescence by tracer dilution with heavy water and bromide  respectively. intracellular water volume (icw) was derived from these parameters. bioelectrical impedance analysis estimates of tbw and ecw were calibrated against dilution methods  and bioelectrical impedance analysis measurements were taken daily until discharge. sixteen children had severe and 19 moderate malaria. severe childhood malaria was associated with depletion of tbw (mean [sd] of 37 [33] ml/kg  or 6.7% [6.0%]) relative to measurement at discharge. this is defined as mild dehydration in other conditions. ecw measurements were normal on admission in children with severe malaria and did not rise in the first few days of admission. volumes in different compartments (tbw  ecw  and icw) were not related to hyperlactataemia or other clinical and laboratory markers of disease severity. moderate malaria was not associated with a depletion of tbw.
2876,hoxa9 transforms primary bone marrow cells through specific collaboration with meis1a but not pbx1b.,hoxa9  meis1 and pbx1 encode homeodomaincontaining proteins implicated in leukemic transformation in both mice and humans. hoxa9  meis1 and pbx1 proteins have been shown to physically interact with each other  as hoxa9 cooperatively binds consensus dna sequences with meis1 and with pbx1  while meis1 and pbx1 form heterodimers in both the presence and absence of dna. in this study  we sought to determine if hoxa9 could transform hemopoietic cells in collaboration with either pbx1 or meis1. primary bone marrow cells  retrovirally engineered to overexpress hoxa9 and meis1a simultaneously  induced growth factor-dependent oligoclonal acute myeloid leukemia in <3 months when transplanted into syngenic mice. in contrast  overexpression of hoxa9  meis1a or pbx1b alone  or the combination of hoxa9 and pbx1b failed to transform these cells acutely within 6 months post-transplantation. similar results were obtained when fdc-p1 cells  engineered to overexpress these genes  were transplanted to syngenic recipients. thus  these studies demonstrate a selective collaboration between a member of the hox family and one of its dna-binding partners in transformation of hemopoietic cells.
2878,spatial and temporal clustering of dengue virus transmission in thai villages,background transmission of dengue viruses (denv)  the leading cause of arboviral disease worldwide  is known to vary through time and space  likely owing to a combination of factors related to the human host  virus  mosquito vector  and environment. an improved understanding of variation in transmission patterns is fundamental to conducting surveillance and implementing disease prevention strategies. to test the hypothesis that denv transmission is spatially and temporally focal  we compared geographic and temporal characteristics within thai villages where denv are and are not being actively transmitted. methods and findings cluster investigations were conducted within 100 m of homes where febrile index children with (positive clusters) and without (negative clusters) acute dengue lived during two seasons of peak denv transmission. data on human infection and mosquito infection/density were examined to precisely (1) define the spatial and temporal dimensions of denv transmission  (2) correlate these factors with variation in denv transmission  and (3) determine the burden of inapparent and symptomatic infections. among 556 village children enrolled as neighbors of 12 dengue-positive and 22 dengue-negative index cases  all 27 denv infections (4.9% of enrollees) occurred in positive clusters (p < 0.01; attributable risk [ar] = 10.4 per 100; 95% confidence interval 1-19.8 per 100]. in positive clusters  12.4% of enrollees became infected in a 15-d period and denv infections were aggregated centrally near homes of index cases. as only 1 of 217 pairs of serologic specimens tested in positive clusters revealed a recent denv infection that occurred prior to cluster initiation  we attribute the observed denv transmission subsequent to cluster investigation to recent denv transmission activity. of the 1 022 female adult ae. aegypti collected  all eight (0.8%) dengue-infected mosquitoes came from houses in positive clusters; none from control clusters or schools. distinguishing features between positive and negative clusters were greater availability of piped water in negative clusters (p < 0.01) and greater number of ae. aegypti pupae per person in positive clusters (p = 0.04). during primarily denv-4 transmission seasons  the ratio of inapparent to symptomatic infections was nearly 1:1 among child enrollees. study limitations included inability to sample all children and mosquitoes within each cluster and our reliance on serologic rather than virologic evidence of interval infections in enrollees given restrictions on the frequency of blood collections in children. conclusions our data reveal the remarkably focal nature of denv transmission within a hyperendemic rural area of thailand. these data suggest that active school-based dengue case detection prompting local spraying could contain recent virus introductions and reduce the longitudinal risk of virus spread within rural areas. our results should prompt future cluster studies to explore how host immune and behavioral aspects may impact denv transmission and prevention strategies. cluster methodology could serve as a useful research tool for investigation of other temporally and spatially clustered infectious diseases.
2880,the histone h3 lysine-27 demethylase jmjd3 links inflammation to inhibition of polycomb-mediated gene silencing,epigenetic chromatin marks restrict the ability of differentiated cells to change gene expression programs in response to environmental cues and to transdifferentiate. polycomb group (pcg) proteins mediate gene silencing and repress transdifferentiation in a manner dependent on histone h3 lysine 27 trimethylation (h3k27me3). however  macrophages migrated into inflamed tissues can transdifferentiate  but it is unknown whether inflammation alters pcg-dependent silencing. here we show that the jmjc-domain protein jmjd3 is a h3k27me demethylase expressed in macrophages in response to bacterial products and inflammatory cytokines. jmjd3 binds pcg target genes and regulates their h3k27me3 levels and transcriptional activity. the discovery of an inducible enzyme that erases a histone mark controlling differentiation and cell identity provides a link between inflammation and reprogramming of the epigenome  which could be the basis for macrophage plasticity and might explain the differentiation abnormalities in chronic inflammation.
2882,exploitative and hierarchical antagonism in a cooperative bacterium,social organisms that cooperate with some members of their own species  such as close relatives  may fail to cooperate with other genotypes of the same species. such noncooperation may take the form of outright antagonism or social exploitation. myxococcus xanthus is a highly social prokaryote that cooperatively develops into spore-bearing  multicellular fruiting bodies in response to starvation. here we have characterized the nature of social interactions among nine developmentally proficient strains of m. xanthus isolated from spatially distant locations. strains were competed against one another in all possible pairwise combinations during starvation-induced development. in most pairings  at least one competitor exhibited strong antagonism toward its partner and a majority of mixes showed bidirectional antagonism that decreased total spore production  even to the point of driving whole populations to extinction. differential response to mixing was the primary determinant of competitive superiority rather than the sporulation efficiencies of unmixed populations. in some competitive pairings  the dominant partner sporulated more efficiently in mixed populations than in clonal isolation. this finding represents a novel form of exploitation in bacteria carried out by socially competent genotypes and is the first documentation of social exploitation among natural bacterial isolates. patterns of antagonistic superiority among these strains form a highly linear dominance hierarchy. at least some competition pairs construct chimeric  rather than segregated  fruiting bodies. the cooperative prokaryote m. xanthus has diverged into a large number of distinct social types that cooperate with clone-mates but exhibit intense antagonism toward distinct social types of the same species. most lengthy migration events in nature may thus result in strong antagonism between migratory and resident populations  and this antagonism may have large effects on local population sizes and dynamics. intense mutual antagonism appears to be more prevalent in this prokaryotic social species than has been observed in the eukaryotic social slime mold dictyostelium discoideum  which also exhibits multicellular development. the finding of several cases of facultative social exploitation among these natural isolates suggests that such exploitation may occur frequently in nature in many prokaryotes with cooperative traits.
2884,the nuclear effector of wnt-signaling  tcf1  functions as a t-cell–specific tumor suppressor for development of lymphomas,the hmg-box factor tcf1 is required during t-cell development in the thymus and mediates the nuclear response to wnt signals. tcf1(-/-) mice have previously been characterized and show developmental blocks at the cd4-cd8- double negative (dn) to cd4+cd8+ double positive transition. due to the blocks in t-cell development  tcf1(-/-) mice normally have a very small thymus. unexpectedly  a large proportion of tcf1(-/-) mice spontaneously develop thymic lymphomas with 50% of mice developing a thymic lymphoma/leukemia at the age of 16 wk. these lymphomas are clonal  highly metastatic  and paradoxically show high wnt signaling when crossed with wnt reporter mice and have high expression of wnt target genes lef1 and axin2. in wild-type thymocytes  tcf1 is higher expressed than lef1  with a predominance of wnt inhibitory isoforms. loss of tcf1 as repressor of lef1 leads to high wnt activity and is the initiating event in lymphoma development  which is exacerbated by activating notch1 mutations. thus  notch1 and loss of tcf1 functionally act as collaborating oncogenic events. tcf1 deficiency predisposes to the development of thymic lymphomas by ectopic up-regulation of lef1 due to lack of tcf1 repressive isoforms and frequently by cooperating activating mutations in notch1. tcf1 therefore functions as a t-cell-specific tumor suppressor gene  besides its established role as a wnt responsive transcription factor. thus  tcf1 acts as a molecular switch between proliferative and repressive signals during t-lymphocyte development in the thymus.
2886,contractile forces sustain and polarize hematopoiesis from stem and progenitor cells.,self-renewal and differentiation of stem cells depend on asymmetric division and polarized motility processes that in other cell types are modulated by nonmuscle myosin-ii (mii) forces and matrix mechanics. here  mass spectrometry-calibrated intracellular flow cytometry of human hematopoiesis reveals miib to be a major isoform that is strongly polarized in hematopoietic stem cells and progenitors (hsc/ps) and thereby downregulated in differentiated cells via asymmetric division. miia is constitutive and activated by dephosphorylation during cytokine-triggered differentiation of cells grown on stiff  endosteum-like matrix  but not soft  marrow-like matrix. in vivo  miib is required for generation of blood  while miia is required for sustained hsc/p engraftment. reversible inhibition of both isoforms in culture with blebbistatin enriches for long-term hematopoietic multilineage reconstituting cells by 5-fold or more as assessed in vivo. megakaryocytes also become more polyploid  producing 4-fold more platelets. mii is thus a multifunctional node in polarized division and niche sensing.
2888,functional insights into the role of nuclear-retained long noncoding rnas in gene expression control in mammalian cells,the mammalian genome harbors thousands of long noncoding rna (lncrna) genes. recent studies have indicated the involvement of several of these lncrnas in the regulation of gene expression. lncrnas play crucial roles in various biological processes ranging from epigenetic gene regulation  transcriptional control  to post-transcriptional regulation. lncrnas are localized in various subcellular compartments  and major proportion of these are retained in the cell nucleus and could be broadly classified as nuclear-retained lncrnas (nrrnas). based on the identified functions  members of the nrrnas execute diverse roles  including providing architectural support to the hierarchical subnuclear organization and influencing the recruitment of chromatin modifier factors to specific chromatin sites. in this review  we will summarize the recently described roles of mammalian nrrnas in controlling gene expression by influencing chromatin organization  transcription  pre-mrna processing  nuclear organization  and their involvement in disease.
2890,tgf-β and insulin signaling regulate reproductive aging via oocyte and germline quality maintenance,reproductive cessation is perhaps the earliest aging phenotype that humans experience. similarly  reproduction of caenorhabditis elegans ceases in mid-adulthood. although somatic aging has been studied in both worms and humans  mechanisms regulating reproductive aging are not yet understood. here  we show that tgf-β sma/mab and insulin/igf-1 signaling regulate c. elegans reproductive aging by modulating multiple aspects of the reproductive process  including embryo integrity  oocyte fertilizability  chromosome segregation fidelity  dna damage resistance  and oocyte and germline morphology. tgf-β activity regulates reproductive span and germline/oocyte quality noncell-autonomously and is temporally and transcriptionally separable from its regulation of growth. chromosome segregation  cell cycle  and dna damage response genes are upregulated in tgf-β mutant oocytes  decline in aged mammalian oocytes  and are critical for oocyte quality maintenance. our data suggest that c. elegans and humans share many aspects of reproductive aging  including the correlation between reproductive aging and declining oocyte quality and mechanisms determining oocyte quality.
2892,nemo prevents rip kinase 1-mediated epithelial cell death and chronic intestinal inflammation by nf-κb-dependent and -independent functions,intestinal epithelial cells (iecs) regulate gut immune homeostasis  and impaired epithelial responses are implicated in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel diseases (ibd). iec-specific ablation of nuclear factor κb (nf-κb) essential modulator (nemo) caused paneth cell apoptosis and impaired antimicrobial factor expression in the ileum  as well as colonocyte apoptosis and microbiota-driven chronic inflammation in the colon. combined rela  c-rel  and relb deficiency in iecs caused paneth cell apoptosis but not colitis  suggesting that nemo prevents colon inflammation by nf-κb-independent functions. inhibition of receptor-interacting protein kinase 1 (ripk1) kinase activity or combined deficiency of fas-associated via death domain protein (fadd) and ripk3 prevented epithelial cell death  paneth cell loss  and colitis development in mice with epithelial nemo deficiency. therefore  nemo prevents intestinal inflammation by inhibiting ripk1 kinase activity-mediated iec death  suggesting that ripk1 inhibitors could be effective in the treatment of colitis in patients with nemo mutations and possibly in ibd.
2894,susceptibility to exacerbation in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.,background although we know that exacerbations are key events in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd)  our understanding of their frequency  determinants  and effects is incomplete. in a large observational cohort  we tested the hypothesis that there is a frequent-exacerbation phenotype of copd that is independent of disease severity. methods we analyzed the frequency and associations of exacerbation in 2138 patients enrolled in the evaluation of copd longitudinally to identify predictive surrogate endpoints (eclipse) study. exacerbations were defined as events that led a care provider to prescribe antibiotics or corticosteroids (or both) or that led to hospitalization (severe exacerbations). exacerbation frequency was observed over a period of 3 years. results exacerbations became more frequent (and more severe) as the severity of copd increased; exacerbation rates in the first year of follow-up were 0.85 per person for patients with stage 2 copd (with stage defined in accordance with global initiative for chronic obstructive lung disease [gold] stages)  1.34 for patients with stage 3  and 2.00 for patients with stage 4. overall  22% of patients with stage 2 disease  33% with stage 3  and 47% with stage 4 had frequent exacerbations (two or more in the first year of follow-up). the single best predictor of exacerbations  across all gold stages  was a history of exacerbations. the frequent-exacerbation phenotype appeared to be relatively stable over a period of 3 years and could be predicted on the basis of the patient's recall of previous treated events. in addition to its association with more severe disease and prior exacerbations  the phenotype was independently associated with a history of gastroesophageal reflux or heartburn  poorer quality of life  and elevated white-cell count. conclusions although exacerbations become more frequent and more severe as copd progresses  the rate at which they occur appears to reflect an independent susceptibility phenotype. this has implications for the targeting of exacerbation-prevention strategies across the spectrum of disease severity. (funded by glaxosmithkline; clinicaltrials.gov number  nct00292552.)
2896,facilitators and impediments of the pluripotency reprogramming factors' initial engagement with the genome,the ectopic expression of transcription factors can reprogram cell fate  yet it is unknown how the initial binding of factors to the genome relates functionally to the binding seen in the minority of cells that become reprogrammed. we report a map of oct4  sox2  klf4  and c-myc (o  s  k  and m) on the human genome during the first 48 hr of reprogramming fibroblasts to pluripotency. three striking aspects of the initial chromatin binding events include an unexpected role for c-myc in facilitating osk chromatin engagement  the primacy of o  s  and k as pioneer factors at enhancers of genes that promote reprogramming  and megabase-scale chromatin domains spanned by h3k9me3  including many genes required for pluripotency  that prevent initial oskm binding and impede the efficiency of reprogramming. we find diverse aspects of initial factor binding that must be overcome in the minority of cells that become reprogrammed.
2898,memory cd4+ t cells induce innate responses independently of pathogen,inflammation induced by recognition of pathogen-associated molecular patterns markedly affects subsequent adaptive responses. we asked whether the adaptive immune system can also affect the character and magnitude of innate inflammatory responses. we found that the response of memory  but not naive  cd4+ t cells enhances production of multiple innate inflammatory cytokines and chemokines (iics) in the lung and that  during influenza infection  this leads to early control of virus. memory cd4+ t cell–induced iics and viral control require cognate antigen recognition and are optimal when memory cells are either t helper type 1 (th1) or th17 polarized but are independent of interferon-γ (ifn-γ) and tumor necrosis factor-α (tnf-α) production and do not require activation of conserved pathogen recognition pathways. this represents a previously undescribed mechanism by which memory cd4+ t cells induce an early innate response that enhances immune protection against pathogens.
2900,human albumin administration in critically ill patients: systematic review of randomised controlled trials.,objective to quantify effect on mortality of administering human albumin or plasma protein fraction during management of critically ill patients. design systematic review of randomised controlled trials comparing administration of albumin or plasma protein fraction with no administration or with administration of crystalloid solution in critically ill patients with hypovolaemia  burns  or hypoalbuminaemia. subjects 30 randomised controlled trials including 1419 randomised patients. main outcome measure mortality from all causes at end of follow up for each trial. results for each patient category the risk of death in the albumin treated group was higher than in the comparison group. for hypovolaemia the relative risk of death after albumin administration was 1.46 (95% confidence interval 0.97 to 2.22)  for burns the relative risk was 2.40 (1.11 to 5.19)  and for hypoalbuminaemia it was 1.69 (1.07 to 2.67). pooled relative risk of death with albumin administration was 1.68 (1.26 to 2.23). pooled difference in the risk of death with albumin was 6% (95% confidence interval 3% to 9%) with a fixed effects model. these data suggest that for every 17 critically ill patients treated with albumin there is one additional death. conclusions there is no evidence that albumin administration reduces mortality in critically ill patients with hypovolaemia  burns  or hypoalbuminaemia and a strong suggestion that it may increase mortality. these data suggest that use of human albumin in critically ill patients should be urgently reviewed and that it should not be used outside the context of rigorously conducted  randomised controlled trials.
2902,mental health support provided throughout the bariatric surgery clinical pathway in french specialized care centers for obesity,pre-operative psychological assessment is recommended by international guidelines for bariatric surgery candidates. thereby  service teams caring for bariatric patients should include at least one mental health provider (e.g.  a psychologist or psychiatrist). the objective of this study was to evaluate the psychology and psychiatry resources and practices in the 37 specialized obesity centers (csos) created by the french ministry of health. cso coordinators were contacted by e-mail to collect general information on the centers (e.g.  number of bariatric operations). secondly  psychologists and psychiatrists of each center completed an anonymous questionnaire assessing their professional practices and their organization of care pathways. the vast majority of cso coordinators (81%  n = 26/32) answered our survey. these results show significant differences and shortages in terms of the psychology/psychiatry resources available. most of the psychologists (n = 26/31) and psychiatrists (n = 10/10) stated that they systematically meet new patients only before surgery (56%) or both before and after the operation (30%); however  some psychologists and psychiatrists (14%) do not systematically meet all the patients (before and/or after surgery). nevertheless  all the professionals provide psychology assessments  and about 75% of them offer a psychological follow-up  indicating a similarity regarding the practices of psychologists and psychiatrists. our results highlight the place of psychological/psychiatric evaluations in french csos and emphasize the absence of mental health providers in several of these services. post-operative psychological follow-up is not usually provided. it would be appropriate to create clear recommendations for post-operative psychological or psychiatric long-term follow-up.
2904,breaking the code of dna binding specificity of tal-type iii effectors.,the pathogenicity of many bacteria depends on the injection of effector proteins via type iii secretion into eukaryotic cells in order to manipulate cellular processes. tal (transcription activator-like) effectors from plant pathogenic xanthomonas are important virulence factors that act as transcriptional activators in the plant cell nucleus  where they directly bind to dna via a central domain of tandem repeats. here  we show how target dna specificity of tal effectors is encoded. two hypervariable amino acid residues in each repeat recognize one base pair in the target dna. recognition sequences of tal effectors were predicted and experimentally confirmed. the modular protein architecture enabled the construction of artificial effectors with new specificities. our study describes the functionality of a distinct type of dna binding domain and allows the design of dna binding domains for biotechnology.
2906,role of antioxidants in paraquat toxicity.,paraquat  a quarternary nitrogen herbicide  is a highly toxic compound for humans and animals and many cases of acute poisoning and death have been reported over the past few decades. the mechanisms of paraquat toxicity involve: the generation of the superoxide anion  which can lead to the formation of more toxic reactive oxygen species  such as hydrogen peroxide and hydroxyl radical; and the oxidation of the cellular nadph  the major source of reducing equivalents for the intracellular reduction of paraquat  which results in the disruption of important nadph-requiring biochemical processes. the major cause of death in paraquat poisoning is respiratory failure due to an oxidative insult to the alveolar epithelium with subsequent obliterating fibrosis. management of paraquat poisoning has remained mostly supportive and has been directed towards the modification of the toxicokinetics of the poison. currently  there are no true pharmacological antagonists for paraquat and there are no chelating agents capable of binding the poison in the blood or other tissues. recognizing the fact that paraquat induces its toxic effects via oxidative stress-mediated mechanisms  innovations in the management of paraquat poisoning are directed towards the use of antioxidants. in this review  the status of antioxidants in ameliorating or treating the toxic effects produced by paraquat is presented.
2908,evaluation of human papillomavirus testing in primary screening for cervical abnormalities: comparison of sensitivity  specificity  and frequency of referral.,context human papillomavirus (hpv) dna testing of women having papanicolaou (pap) smears showing atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance (ascus) has clinical usefulness. whether hpv dna testing alone is useful in primary screening remains to be determined. objective to determine the accuracy of hpv dna testing for detecting cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin) grade 3 or cancer (the criterion standard). design  setting  and participants between december 1997 and october 2000  4075 women who attended planned parenthood clinics in washington state were screened simultaneously using thin-layer pap and hpv dna testing by a polymerase chain reaction (pcr)-based method and by a liquid-based rna-dna hybridization capture with signal amplification assay (signal amplification). women who were positive for high-risk hpv types  or had pap results of ascus or higher  were considered to have positive screening test results and were referred for colposcopy and biopsy. additionally  a random sample of women with negative screening test results was referred for colposcopy. based on individual and combined thin-layer pap  hpv pcr  and hpv signal amplification test results from the screening and the colposcopy visits  7 colposcopy triage strategies were defined and evaluated. main outcome measure sensitivity and specificity for detecting cervical lesions graded cin 3 or higher for each of the 7 triage strategies. results the estimated prevalence of cin 3 or higher was 3.2%. the sensitivity (95% confidence interval) of thin-layer pap (with a result of > or = ascus) for identifying women with cin 3 or higher was only 61.3% (48.5%-70.9%) compared with 88.2% (78.9%-93.8%) for hpv testing by pcr and 90.8% (83.1%-95.8%) by signal amplification. differences in specificities were also observed: 82.4% (81.8%-83.1%) for thin-layer pap (with a result of > or = ascus)  78.8% (77.9%-79.7%) for pcr  and 72.6% (69.4%-75.0%) for signal amplification. compared with referral for colposcopy of all women with ascus or higher  signal amplification testing of women with ascus and referral of those with a positive result was about as sensitive (61.3% vs 60.3%  respectively) and significantly more specific (82.4% vs 88.9%  respectively). the strategy requiring repeat positive pcr tests on 2 visits had a sensitivity of 84.2% (75.3%-91.0%) and a specificity of 86.2% (85.1%-87.3%). all tests were more specific and less sensitive in older (> or = 30 years) vs younger women. conclusions testing for hpv has higher sensitivity but lower specificity than thin-layer pap screening. in some settings  particularly where screening intervals are long or haphazard  screening for hpv dna may be a reasonable alternative to cytology-based screening of reproductive-age women.
2910,replication protein a: a heterotrimeric  single-stranded dna-binding protein required for eukaryotic dna metabolism.,replication protein a [rpa; also known as replication factor a (rfa) and human single-stranded dna-binding protein] is a single-stranded dna-binding protein that is required for multiple processes in eukaryotic dna metabolism  including dna replication  dna repair  and recombination. rpa homologues have been identified in all eukaryotic organisms examined and are all abundant heterotrimeric proteins composed of subunits of approximately 70  30  and 14 kda. members of this family bind nonspecifically to single-stranded dna and interact with and/or modify the activities of multiple proteins. in cells  rpa is phosphorylated by dna-dependent protein kinase when rpa is bound to single-stranded dna (during s phase and after dna damage). phosphorylation of rpa may play a role in coordinating dna metabolism in the cell. rpa may also have a role in modulating gene expression.
2912,good and bad consequences of altered fatty acid metabolism in heart failure: evidence from mouse models.,the shift in substrate preference away from fatty acid oxidation (fao) towards increased glucose utilization in heart failure has long been interpreted as an oxygen-sparing mechanism. inhibition of fao has therefore evolved as an accepted approach to treat heart failure. however  recent data indicate that increased reliance on glucose might be detrimental rather than beneficial for the failing heart. this review discusses new insights into metabolic adaptations in heart failure. a particular focus lies on data obtained from mouse models with modulations of cardiac fa metabolism at different levels of the fa metabolic pathway and how these differently affect cardiac function. based on studies in which these mouse models were exposed to ischaemic and non-ischaemic heart failure  we discuss whether and when modulations in fa metabolism are protective against heart failure.
2914,ten years' experience with alendronate for osteoporosis in postmenopausal women.,background antiresorptive agents are widely used to treat osteoporosis. we report the results of a multinational randomized  double-blind study  in which postmenopausal women with osteoporosis were treated with alendronate for up to 10 years. methods the initial three-year phase of the study compared three daily doses of alendronate with placebo. women in the original placebo group received alendronate in years 4 and 5 and then were discharged. women in the original active-treatment groups continued to receive alendronate during the initial extension (years 4 and 5). in two further extensions (years 6 and 7  and 8 through 10)  women who had received 5 mg or 10 mg of alendronate daily continued on the same treatment. women in the discontinuation group received 20 mg of alendronate daily for two years and 5 mg daily in years 3  4  and 5  followed by five years of placebo. randomized group assignments and blinding were maintained throughout the 10 years. we report results for the 247 women who participated in all four phases of the study. results treatment with 10 mg of alendronate daily for 10 years produced mean increases in bone mineral density of 13.7 percent at the lumbar spine (95 percent confidence interval  12.0 to 15.5 percent)  10.3 percent at the trochanter (95 percent confidence interval  8.1 to 12.4 percent)  5.4 percent at the femoral neck (95 percent confidence interval  3.5 to 7.4 percent)  and 6.7 percent at the total proximal femur (95 percent confidence interval  4.4 to 9.1 percent) as compared with base-line values; smaller gains occurred in the group given 5 mg daily. the discontinuation of alendronate resulted in a gradual loss of effect  as measured by bone density and biochemical markers of bone remodeling. safety data  including fractures and stature  did not suggest that prolonged treatment resulted in any loss of benefit. conclusions the therapeutic effects of alendronate were sustained  and the drug was well tolerated over a 10-year period. the discontinuation of alendronate resulted in the gradual loss of its effects.
2916,poly(a)-specific ribonuclease (parn) mediates 3′-end maturation of the telomerase rna component,mutations in the parn gene (encoding poly(a)-specific ribonuclease) cause telomere diseases including familial idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (ipf) and dyskeratosis congenita  but how parn deficiency impairs telomere maintenance is unclear. here  using somatic cells and induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs) from patients with dyskeratosis congenita with parn mutations  we show that parn is required for the 3′-end maturation of the telomerase rna component (terc). patient-derived cells as well as immortalized cells in which parn is disrupted show decreased levels of terc. deep sequencing of terc rna 3′ termini shows that parn is required for removal of post-transcriptionally acquired oligo(a) tails that target nuclear rnas for degradation. diminished terc levels and the increased proportion of oligo(a) forms of terc are normalized by restoring parn  which is limiting for terc maturation in cells. our results demonstrate a new role for parn in the biogenesis of terc and provide a mechanism linking parn mutations to telomere diseases.
2918,model-based analysis of chip-seq (macs),we present model-based analysis of chip-seq data  macs  which analyzes data generated by short read sequencers such as solexa's genome analyzer. macs empirically models the shift size of chip-seq tags  and uses it to improve the spatial resolution of predicted binding sites. macs also uses a dynamic poisson distribution to effectively capture local biases in the genome  allowing for more robust predictions. macs compares favorably to existing chip-seq peak-finding algorithms  and is freely available.
2920,in-hospital switching of oral p2y12 inhibitor treatment in patients with acute coronary syndrome undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention: prevalence  predictors and short-term outcome.,background p2y12 inhibitor switching has appeared in clinical practice as a consequence of prasugrel and ticagrelor availability  apart from clopidogrel  for use in patients with acute coronary syndrome (acs) undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (pci). methods in the context of the greek antiplatelet registry (grape) we assessed the prevalence  predictive factors and short-term outcome of in-hospital p2y12 inhibitor switching in 1794 acs patients undergoing pci. results switching occurred in 636 (35.5%) patients of which in the form of clopidogrel to a novel agent  novel agent to clopidogrel and between prasugrel and ticagrelor in 574 (90.4%)  34 (5.3%) and 27 (4.3%) patients  respectively. presentation to non pci-capable hospital  bivalirudin use  age ≥75 years (inverse predictor)  and regional trends emerged as predictive factors of switching to a novel agent. at combined in-hospital and one-month follow-up  propensity matched pairs analysis showed no differences in major adverse cardiovascular (mace) or bleeding events between switching from clopidogrel to a novel agent vs novel agent constant administration. more bleeding academic research consortium type 1  type 2 and any type events and fewer mace were seen when switching from clopidogrel to a novel agent vs only clopidogrel administration (23.7%  3.8%  30.6%  1.2% vs 8.9%  1.2%  12.0%  3.8% with p < .001  p = .03  p < .001 and p = .03 respectively). conclusions in a real-life experience with contemporary antiplatelet treatment in acs patients undergoing pci  in-hospital switching represents common clinical practice. clinical factors and regional practice differences seem to affect this strategy's choice  while switching to a novel agent may be associated with higher risk of bleeding.
2922,validity of age at menarche self-reported in adulthood.,objective to test the validity of age at menarche self-reported in adulthood and examine whether socioeconomic position  education  experience of gynaecological events and psychological symptoms influence the accuracy of recall. design prospective birth cohort study. setting england  scotland and wales. participants 1050 women from the medical research council national survey of health and development  with two measures of age at menarche  one recorded in adolescence and the other self-reported at age 48 years. results by calculating the limits of agreement  kappa statistic and pearson's correlation coefficients (r)  we found that the validity of age at menarche self-reported in middle age compared with that recorded in adolescence was moderate (kappa = 0.35  r = 0.66  n = 1050). validity was improved by categorising age at menarche into three groups: early  normal and late (kappa = 0.43). agreement was influenced by educational level and having had a stillbirth or miscarriage. conclusions the level of validity shown in this study throws some doubt on whether it is justifiable to use age at menarche self-reported in middle age. it is likely to introduce error and bias  and researchers should be aware of these limitations and use such measures with caution.
2924,coronary plaque disruption.,coronary atherosclerosis is by far the most frequent cause of ischemic heart disease  and plaque disruption with superimposed thrombosis is the main cause of the acute coronary syndromes of unstable angina  myocardial infarction  and sudden death.1 2 3 4 5 therefore  for event-free survival  the vital question is not why atherosclerosis develops but rather why  after years of indolent growth  it suddenly becomes complicated by life-threatening thrombosis. the composition and vulnerability of plaque rather than its volume or the consequent severity of stenosis produced have emerged as being the most important determinants for the development of the thrombus-mediated acute coronary syndromes; lipid-rich and soft plaques are more dangerous than collagen-rich and hard plaques because they are more unstable and rupture-prone and highly thrombogenic after disruption.6 this review will explore potential mechanisms responsible for the sudden conversion of a stable atherosclerotic plaque to an unstable and life-threatening atherothrombotic lesion—an event known as plaque fissuring  rupture  or disruption.7 8   atherosclerosis is the result of a complex interaction between blood elements  disturbed flow  and vessel wall abnormality  involving several pathological processes: inflammation  with increased endothelial permeability  endothelial activation  and monocyte recruitment9 10 11 12 13 14 ; growth  with smooth muscle cell (smc) proliferation  migration  and matrix synthesis15 16 ; degeneration  with lipid accumulation17 18 ; necrosis  possibly related to the cytotoxic effect of oxidized lipid19 ; calcification/ossification  which may represent an active rather than a dystrophic process20 21 ; and thrombosis  with platelet recruitment and fibrin formation.1 22 23 thrombotic factors may play a role early during atherogenesis  but a flow-limiting thrombus does not develop until mature plaques are present  which is why thrombosis often is classified as a complication rather than a genuine component of atherosclerosis. ### mature plaques: atherosis and sclerosis   as the name atherosclerosis implies  mature …
2926,hprimpol1/ccdc111 is a human dna primase-polymerase required for the maintenance of genome integrity.,prim-pol is a recently identified dna primase-polymerase belonging to the archaeao-eukaryotic primase (aep) superfamily. here  we characterize a previously unrecognized prim-pol in human cells  which we designate hprimpol1 (human primase-polymerase 1). hprimpol1 possesses primase and dna polymerase activities in vitro  interacts directly with rpa1 and is recruited to sites of dna damage and stalled replication forks in an rpa1-dependent manner. cells depleted of hprimpol1 display increased spontaneous dna damage and defects in the restart of stalled replication forks. both rpa1 binding and the primase activity of hprimpol1 are required for its cellular function during dna replication. our results indicate that hprimpol1 is a novel factor involved in the response to dna replication stress.
2928,the potential role of mirnas 21 and 199-a in early diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma.,background hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) is regarded as one of the most common malignancies and among the leading causes of cancer death among the whole world. the most urgent needs are to find sensitive markers for early diagnosis for hcc. micrornas (mirnas) are reported as a group of small non-coding rnas that can function as endogenous rna interference to regulate expression of the targeted genes. this study was conducted to detect the serum and tissue expression of mir 21 and mir 199-a to be applied as early detectors for hcc. methods a total of 40 serum and tissue samples (17 samples from chronic hepatitis and 23 samples from hcc patients) were collected. the levels of the two mature mirnas (mir-21 and mir-199-a) were detected by real time quantitative reverse-transcriptase pcr (rt-qpcr) in sera and tissues of chronic hepatitis and hcc patients. besides  mir-21 and mir-199-a levels in relation to clinical and pathological factors were explored. results we found that the expression of serum mir-21 was distinctly increased in hcc compared with chronic hepatitis (p<0.001). mir 199-a was distinctly decreased in hcc compared with chronic hepatitis (p<0.001). in addition  median of mir 21 was increased in malignant when compared to adjacent non-malignant tissues without significant differences (p=0.191) while mir 199-a was significantly decreased in malignant when compared to adjacent nonmalignant tissues (p<0.001). roc analysis showed that mir-21 and mir-199-a might be potential biomarkers for hcc. conclusions in conclusion  the expression of mir-21 was significantly up-regulated and mir-199-a was significantly down regulated in serum of patients with hcc. due to their reasonable sensitivity and specificity for disease progression  mir-21 and mir-199-a could be used as potential circulating biomarkers for hcc.
2930,value of whole brain re-irradiation for brain metastases--single centre experience.,aims there is controversy in published studies regarding the role of repeat whole brain radiation (wbrt) for previously irradiated brain metastases. the aim of our retrospective study was to document the practice at princess margaret hospital with respect to the re-irradiation of patients with progressive or recurrent brain metastatic disease after initial wbrt. materials and methods a comprehensive computerised database was used to identify patients treated for brain metastases with more than one course of wbrt between 1997 and 2003. seventy-two patients were treated with wbrt for brain metastases and retreated with wbrt at a later date. the records of these patients were reviewed. results the median age was 56.5 years. the most common primary sites were lung (51 patients) and breast (17 patients). the most frequent dose used for the initial radiotherapy was 20 gy/5 fractions (62 patients). the most common doses of re-irradiation were 25 gy/10 fractions (22 patients)  20 gy/10 fractions (12 patients)  15 gy/5 fractions (11 patients) and 20 gy/8 fractions (10 patients). thirty-one per cent of patients experienced a partial clinical response after re-irradiation  as judged by follow-up clinical notes; 27% remained stable; 32% deteriorated after re-irradiation. patients who had eastern cooperative oncology group performance status 0-1 at the time of retreatment lived longer. in responders  the mean duration of response was 5.1 months. the median survival after re-irradiation was 4.1 months. one patient was reported as having memory impairment and pituitary insufficiency after 5 months of progression-free survival. conclusion repeat radiotherapy may be a useful treatment in carefully selected patients. with increased survival and better systemic options for patients with metastatic disease  more patients may be candidates for consideration of repeat wbrt for recurrent brain metastases  but prospective studies are needed to more clearly document their outcomes.
2932,il-33  a recently identified interleukin-1 gene family member  is expressed in human adipocytes.,inflammation occurs in adipose tissue in obesity. we have examined whether il-33  a recently identified il-1 gene family member  and its associated receptors are expressed in human adipocytes. il-33  il-1rl1 and il-1rap gene expression was observed in human visceral white fat  in preadipocytes and in adipocytes (sgbs cells). treatment with tnfalpha for 24h induced a 6-fold increase in il-33 mrna level in preadipocytes and adipocytes. time-course studies with adipocytes showed that the increase in il-33 mrna with tnfalpha was maximal (>55-fold) at 12h. this response was markedly different to il-1beta (peak mrna increase at 2h; 5.4-fold) and 1l-18 (peak mrna increase at 6h; >1500-fold). exposure of adipocytes to hypoxia (1% o(2)  24h) did not alter il-33 mrna level; in preadipocytes  however  there was a 3-fold increase. human adipocytes and preadipocytes express il-33  but the various il-1 family members exhibit major differences in responsiveness to tnfalpha.
2934,extending healthy life span--from yeast to humans.,when the food intake of organisms such as yeast and rodents is reduced (dietary restriction)  they live longer than organisms fed a normal diet. a similar effect is seen when the activity of nutrient-sensing pathways is reduced by mutations or chemical inhibitors. in rodents  both dietary restriction and decreased nutrient-sensing pathway activity can lower the incidence of age-related loss of function and disease  including tumors and neurodegeneration. dietary restriction also increases life span and protects against diabetes  cancer  and cardiovascular disease in rhesus monkeys  and in humans it causes changes that protect against these age-related pathologies. tumors and diabetes are also uncommon in humans with mutations in the growth hormone receptor  and natural genetic variants in nutrient-sensing pathways are associated with increased human life span. dietary restriction and reduced activity of nutrient-sensing pathways may thus slow aging by similar mechanisms  which have been conserved during evolution. we discuss these findings and their potential application to prevention of age-related disease and promotion of healthy aging in humans  and the challenge of possible negative side effects.
2936,kindlin-3 is essential for integrin activation and platelet aggregation,integrin-mediated platelet adhesion and aggregation are essential for sealing injured blood vessels and preventing blood loss  and excessive platelet aggregation can initiate arterial thrombosis  causing heart attacks and stroke. to ensure that platelets aggregate only at injury sites  integrins on circulating platelets exist in a low-affinity state and shift to a high-affinity state (in a process known as integrin activation or priming) after contacting a wounded vessel. the shift is mediated through binding of the cytoskeletal protein talin to the β subunit cytoplasmic tail. here we show that platelets lacking the adhesion plaque protein kindlin-3 cannot activate integrins despite normal talin expression. as a direct consequence  kindlin-3 deficiency results in severe bleeding and resistance to arterial thrombosis. mechanistically  kindlin-3 can directly bind to regions of β-integrin tails distinct from those of talin and trigger integrin activation. we have therefore identified kindlin-3 as a novel and essential element for platelet integrin activation in hemostasis and thrombosis.
2938,n- and e-cadherins in xenopus are specifically required in the neural and non-neural ectoderm  respectively  for f-actin assembly and morphogenetic movements.,transmembrane cadherins are calcium-dependent intercellular adhesion molecules. recently  they have also been shown to be sites of actin assembly during adhesive contact formation. however  the roles of actin assembly on transmembrane cadherins during development are not fully understood. we show here  using the developing ectoderm of the xenopus embryo as a model  that f-actin assembly is a primary function of both n-cadherin in the neural ectoderm and e-cadherin in the non-neural (epidermal) ectoderm  and that each cadherin is essential for the characteristic morphogenetic movements of these two tissues. however  depletion of n-cadherin and e-cadherin did not cause dissociation in these tissues at the neurula stage  probably owing to the expression of c-cadherin in each tissue. depletion of each of these cadherins is not rescued by the other  nor by the expression of c-cadherin  which is expressed in both tissues. one possible reason for this is that each cadherin is expressed in a different domain of the cell membrane. these data indicate the combinatorial nature of cadherin function  the fact that n- and e-cadherin play primary roles in f-actin assembly in addition to roles in cell adhesion  and that this function is specific to individual cadherins. they also show how cell adhesion and motility can be combined in morphogenetic tissue movements that generate the form and shape of the embryonic organs.
2940,adult neurogenesis is sustained by symmetric self-renewal and differentiation.,somatic stem cells have been identified in multiple adult tissues. whether self-renewal occurs symmetrically or asymmetrically is key to understanding long-term stem cell maintenance and generation of progeny for cell replacement. in the adult mouse brain  neural stem cells (nscs) (b1 cells) are retained in the walls of the lateral ventricles (ventricular-subventricular zone [v-svz]). the mechanism of b1 cell retention into adulthood for lifelong neurogenesis is unknown. using multiple clonal labeling techniques  we show that the vast majority of b1 cells divide symmetrically. whereas 20%-30% symmetrically self-renew and can remain in the niche for several months before generating neurons  70%-80% undergo consuming divisions generating progeny  resulting in the depletion of b1 cells over time. this cellular mechanism decouples self-renewal from the generation of progeny. limited rounds of symmetric self-renewal and consuming symmetric differentiation divisions can explain the levels of neurogenesis observed throughout life.
2942,induction of cell cycle entry eliminates human leukemia stem cells in a mouse model of aml,cancer stem cells have been proposed to be important for initiation  maintenance and recurrence of various malignancies  including acute myeloid leukemia (aml). we have previously reported that cd34+cd38− human primary aml stem cells residing in the endosteal region of the bone marrow are relatively chemotherapy resistant. using a nod/scid/il2rγnull mouse model of human aml  we now show that the aml stem cells in the endosteal region are cell cycle quiescent and that these stem cells can be induced to enter the cell cycle by treatment with granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (g-csf). in combination with cell cycle-dependent chemotherapy  g-csf treatment significantly enhances induction of apoptosis and elimination of human primary aml stem cells in vivo. the combination therapy leads to significantly increased survival of secondary recipients after transplantation of leukemia cells compared with chemotherapy alone.
2944,vision tests in the mouse: functional phenotyping with electroretinography.,electroretinography (erg) is an established diagnostic technique in clinical ophthalmology and provides objective information about retinal function. this technique is also applied in basic research  where animal models of hereditary retinopathies have significantly contributed to our understanding of the composition of erg responses in general and how retinal degenerative pathologies alter retinal function specifically. indeed  electrophysiologic assessment of transgenic mice  which are genetically engineered to mimic human mutations that lead to retinal diseases  can be well compared with clinical data. furthermore  limitations on examinations (e.g. length of measurement  range of light intensity) are much less of a concern when assessing mice compared to human patients. in order to measure and analyze retinal responses properly  several important aspects have to be considered. this paper focuses on these aspects  and shows exemplary erg data which were obtained from normal wild-type mice and from transgenic mice with specific functional properties  namely rho-/- (rod opsin knockout  cone function only)  and cnga3-/- (cone cng channel deficient  rod function only) to illustrate rod and cone system contributions to erg responses.
2946,capsaicin-sensitive sensory nerve fibers contribute to the generation and maintenance of skeletal fracture pain.,although skeletal pain can have a marked impact on a patient's functional status and quality of life  relatively little is known about the specific populations of peripheral nerve fibers that drive non-malignant bone pain. in the present report  neonatal male sprague-dawley rats were treated with capsaicin or vehicle and femoral fracture was produced when the animals were young adults (15-16 weeks old). capsaicin treatment  but not vehicle  resulted in a significant (>70%) depletion in the density of calcitonin-gene related peptide positive (cgrp(+)) sensory nerve fibers  but not 200 kda neurofilament h positive (nf200(+)) sensory nerve fibers in the periosteum. the periosteum is a thin  cellular and fibrous tissue that tightly adheres to the outer surface of all but the articulated surface of bone and appears to play a pivotal role in driving fracture pain. in animals treated with capsaicin  but not vehicle  there was a 50% reduction in the severity  but no change in the time course  of fracture-induced skeletal pain-related behaviors as measured by spontaneous flinching  guarding and weight bearing. these results suggest that both capsaicin-sensitive (primarily cgrp(+) c-fibers) and capsaicin-insensitive (primarily nf200(+) a-delta fibers) sensory nerve fibers participate in driving skeletal fracture pain. skeletal pain can be a significant impediment to functional recovery following trauma-induced fracture  osteoporosis-induced fracture and orthopedic surgery procedures such as knee and hip replacement. understanding the specific populations of sensory nerve fibers that need to be targeted to inhibit the generation and maintenance of skeletal pain may allow the development of more specific mechanism-based therapies that can effectively attenuate acute and chronic skeletal pain.
2948,meg3 imprinted gene contribution in tumorigenesis.,maternally expressed gene 3 (meg3) is a maternally expressed imprinted gene representing a large noncoding rna in which micrornas (mirnas) and small nucleolar rnas are also hosted. it is capable of interacting with cyclic amp  p53  murine double minute 2 (mdm2) and growth differentiation factor 15 (gdf15) playing a role in cell proliferation control. meg3 expression is under epigenetic control  and aberrant cpg methylation has been observed in several types of cancer. moreover  gene copy number loss has been reported as additional mechanism associated with tumorigenesis. meg3 deletion seems to upregulate the paternally expressed genes and on the other hand downregulate the expression of downstream maternally expressed genes and tumor suppressor mirnas  although there are conflicting data on the topic. meg3 could represent a tumor suppressor gene located in chromosome 14q32 and its association with tumorigenesis is growing every day.
2950,junctophilin-4  a component of the endoplasmic reticulum-plasma membrane junctions  regulates ca2+ dynamics in t cells.,orai1 and stromal interaction molecule 1 (stim1) mediate store-operated ca(2+) entry (soce) in immune cells. stim1  an endoplasmic reticulum (er) ca(2+) sensor  detects store depletion and interacts with plasma membrane (pm)-resident orai1 channels at the er-pm junctions. however  the molecular composition of these junctions in t cells remains poorly understood. here  we show that junctophilin-4 (jp4)  a member of junctional proteins in excitable cells  is expressed in t cells and localized at the er-pm junctions to regulate ca(2+) signaling. silencing or genetic manipulation of jp4 decreased er ca(2+) content and soce in t cells  impaired activation of the nuclear factor of activated t cells (nfat) and extracellular signaling-related kinase (erk) signaling pathways  and diminished expression of activation markers and cytokines. mechanistically  jp4 directly interacted with stim1 via its cytoplasmic domain and facilitated its recruitment into the junctions. accordingly  expression of this cytoplasmic fragment of jp4 inhibited soce. furthermore  jp4 also formed a complex with junctate  a ca(2+)-sensing er-resident protein  previously shown to mediate stim1 recruitment into the junctions. we propose that the junctate-jp4 complex located at the junctions cooperatively interacts with stim1 to maintain er ca(2+) homeostasis and mediate soce in t cells.
2952,infralimbic bdnf/trkb enhancement of glun2b currents facilitates extinction of a cocaine-conditioned place preference.,brain-derived neurotrophic factor (bdnf) regulates synaptic activity and behavioral flexibility  and reduction of bdnf strongly predicts psychiatric disorders and cognitive dysfunction. restoration of bdnf-dependent activity could alleviate these impairments  but bdnf has limited clinical utility due to its pharmacokinetics. here we demonstrate that activation of a primary bdnf target  the tropomyosin-related kinase b (trkb) receptor  enhances the amplitude and prolongs the decay kinetics of n-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (nmdar) currents in male rat infralimbic prefrontal pyramidal neurons. moreover  these effects were prevented and reversed by blockade of nmdars containing the glun2b subunit. our results show that this signaling cascade bidirectionally regulates extinction of a cocaine-induced conditioned place preference (cpp)  a task that requires behavioral flexibility. blockade of infralimbic trkb receptors or glun2b-containing nmdars disrupted consolidation of extinction of the cpp. in contrast  extinction was strengthened by potentiation of trkb receptor activity with infralimbic infusions of bdnf or systemic injections of 7 8 dihydroxyflavone (7 8dhf)  the newly synthesized trkb receptor agonist. the 7 8dhf-induced enhancement of extinction was prevented by infralimbic infusions of a glun2b-specific receptor antagonist  demonstrating that trkb receptor activation enhances extinction of cocaine-cpp via glun2b-containing nmdars. together  infralimbic trkb receptor activation strengthens glun2b-containing nmdar currents to support extinction learning. trkb receptor agonists would therefore be useful as pharmacological adjuncts for extinction-based therapies for treatment of psychiatric disorders associated with reduced bdnf activity.
2954,angiopoietin-like proteins stimulate ex vivo expansion of hematopoietic stem cells,successful ex vivo expansion of hematopoietic stem cells (hscs) would greatly benefit the treatment of disease and the understanding of crucial questions of stem cell biology. here we show  using microarray studies  that the hsc-supportive mouse fetal liver cd3+ cells specifically express the proteins angiopoietin-like 2 (angptl2) and angiopoietin-like 3 (angptl3). we observed a 24- or 30-fold net expansion of long-term hscs by reconstitution analysis when we cultured highly enriched hscs for 10 days in the presence of angptl2 or angptl3 together with saturating levels of other growth factors. the coiled-coil domain of angptl2 was capable of stimulating expansion of hscs. furthermore  angiopoietin-like 5  angiopoietin-like 7 and microfibril-associated glycoprotein 4 also supported expansion of hscs in culture.
2956,lin28b is sufficient to drive liver cancer and necessary for its maintenance in murine models.,lin28a/b are rna-binding proteins that influence stem cell maintenance  metabolism  and oncogenesis. poorly differentiated  aggressive cancers often overexpress lin28  but its role in tumor initiation or maintenance has not been definitively addressed. we report that lin28b overexpression is sufficient to initiate hepatoblastoma and hepatocellular carcinoma in murine models. we also detected lin28b overexpression in myc-driven hepatoblastomas  and liver-specific deletion of lin28a/b reduced tumor burden  extended latency  and prolonged survival. both intravenous sirna against lin28b and conditional lin28b deletion reduced tumor burden and prolonged survival. igf2bp proteins are upregulated  and igf2bp3 is required in the context of lin28b overexpression to promote growth. therefore  multiple murine models demonstrate that lin28b is both sufficient to initiate liver cancer and necessary for its maintenance.
2958,changes in plasma copeptin  the c-terminal portion of arginine vasopressin during water deprivation and excess in healthy subjects.,context the measurement of arginine vasopressin (avp) is often cumbersome because it is unstable with a short half-life time. avp is derived from a larger precursor peptide along with the more stable peptide copeptin. copeptin is the c-terminal part of provasopressin and has been shown to be a useful tool to indicate avp concentration in critically ill patients. objective the objective of the study was to evaluate the clinical usefulness of copeptin as a new marker in disordered states of blood volume and plasma osmolality. design and setting this was a prospective observational study in a university hospital. participants and main outcome measures three techniques with respective control studies were used in 24 healthy adults to produce changes in plasma osmolality and/or volume: 1) a 28-h water deprivation  2) a 17-h hypertonic saline infusion combined with thirsting  and 3) a hypotonic saline infusion with iv desmopressin administration during free water intake. results water deprivation produced a weight loss of 1.7 kg  an increase in plasma osmolality to 294.8 +/- 4.3 mosmol/kg  and an increase of copeptin from 4.6 +/- 1.7 pmol/liter to 9.2 +/- 5.2 pmol/liter (p < 0.0001). during hypertonic saline infusion and thirsting with a raise of plasma osmolality to 296.1 +/- 3.4 mosmol/kg  copeptin increased from 4.9 +/- 3.0 pmol/liter to 19.9 +/- 4.8 pmol/liter (p < 0.0001). conversely  during hypotonic saline infusion  plasma osmolality decreased to 271.3 +/- 4.1 mosmol/kg  and copeptin decreased from 6.2 +/- 2.4 pmol/liter to 2.4 +/- 2.1 pmol/liter (p < 0.01). conclusion copeptin shows identical changes during disordered water states as previously shown for avp. it might be a reliable marker of avp secretion and substitute for the measurement of circulating avp levels in clinical routine.
2960,chemosensitivity profile assay of circulating cancer cells: prognostic and predictive value in epithelial tumors.,the prognostic value associated with the detection of circulating tumor cells (ctcs) in metastatic breast cancer by the cellsearch technology raise additional issues regarding the biological value of this information. we postulated that a drug-resistance profile of ctcs may predict response to chemotherapy in cancer patients and therefore could be used for patient selection. one hundred 5 patients with diagnosis of carcinoma were enrolled in a prospective trial. ctcs were isolated from peripheral blood  and positive samples were evaluated for the expression of a panel of genes involved in anticancer drugs resistance. the drug-resistance profile was correlated with disease-free survival (dfs; patients in adjuvant setting) and time to progression (ttp; metastatic patients) in a 24-months follow-up. objective response correlation was a secondary end point. fifty-one percent of patients were found positive for ctcs while all blood samples from healthy donors were negative. the drug-resistance profile correlates with dfs and ttp (p < 0.001 in both). sensitivity of the test: able to predict treatment response in 98% of patients. specificity of the test: 100%; no sample from healthy subject was positive for the presence of ctcs. positive and negative predictive values were found to be 96.5 and 100%  respectively. we identified a drug-resistance profile of ctcs  which is predictive of response to chemotherapy  independent of tumor type and stage of disease. this approach may represent a first step toward the individualization of chemotherapy in cancer patients.
2962,doxycycline induces apoptosis in panc-1 pancreatic cancer cells.,background tetracyclines such as doxycycline are reported to possess cytotoxic activity against mammalian tumor cells  but the mechanism of their effects on cell proliferation remains unclear. materials and methods the antitumor effect of doxycycline was investigated in human pancreatic cancer cell line  panc-1. we also investigated the effect of doxycycline on expression of a potent proangiogenic factor  interleukin (il)-8. results in excess of 20 microg/ml  cytotoxic effects of doxycycline were accompanied by g(1)-s cell cycle arrest and dna fragmentation in panc-1 cells. doxycycline consistently activated transcription of p53  p21 and fas/fasl-cascade-related genes  while reducing the expression of bcl-xl and mcl-1. doxycycline (5 microg/ml) below the cytotoxic level suppressed endogenous and paclitaxel-induced il-8 expression. in the mouse xenograft model  doxycycline treatment was shown to suppress tumor growth by 80%. conclusion these data suggest that doxycycline exerts its antitumor effect by activating proapoptotic genes  inhibiting il-8 expression  and suppressing antiapoptotic genes.
2964,ifi16 and cgas cooperate in the activation of sting during dna sensing in human keratinocytes,many human cells can sense the presence of exogenous dna during infection though the cytosolic dna receptor cyclic gmp-amp synthase (cgas)  which produces the second messenger cyclic gmp-amp (cgamp). other putative dna receptors have been described  but whether their functions are redundant  tissue-specific or integrated in the cgas-cgamp pathway is unclear. here we show that interferon-γ inducible protein 16 (ifi16) cooperates with cgas during dna sensing in human keratinocytes  as both cgas and ifi16 are required for the full activation of an innate immune response to exogenous dna and dna viruses. ifi16 is also required for the cgamp-induced activation of sting  and interacts with sting to promote sting phosphorylation and translocation. we propose that the two dna sensors ifi16 and cgas cooperate to prevent the spurious activation of the type i interferon response.
2966,lysosomal localization of trpml3 depends on trpml2 and the mucolipidosis-associated protein trpml1.,mucolipidosis type iv is an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder characterized by severe neurodegeneration  achlorhydria  and visual impairments such as corneal opacity and strabismus. the disease arises due to mutations in a group 2 transient receptor potential (trp)-related cation channel  trpml1. mammals encode two additional trpml proteins named trpml2 and trpml3. information regarding the propensity of these proteins to multimerize  their subcellular distribution and mechanisms that regulate their trafficking are limited. here we demonstrate that trpmls interact to form homo- and heteromultimers. moreover  the presence of either trpml1 or trpml2 specifically influences the spatial distribution of trpml3. trpml1 and trpml2 homomultimers are lysosomal proteins  whereas trpml3 homomultimers are in the endoplasmic reticulum. however  trpml3 localizes to lysosomes when coexpressed with either trpml1 or trpml2 and is comparably mislocalized when lysosomal targeting of trpml1 and trpml2 is disrupted. conversely  trpml3 does not cause retention of trpml1 or trpml2 in the endoplasmic reticulum. these data demonstrate that there is a hierarchy controlling the subcellular distributions of the trpmls such that trpml1 and trpml2 dictate the localization of trpml3 and not vice versa.
2968,a specific inhibitor of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase  2-(4-morpholinyl)-8-phenyl-4h-1-benzopyran-4-one (ly294002).,phosphatidylinositol (ptdins) 3-kinase is an enzyme implicated in growth factor signal transduction by associating with receptor and nonreceptor tyrosine kinases  including the platelet-derived growth factor receptor. inhibitors of ptdins 3-kinase could potentially give a better understanding of the function and regulatory mechanisms of the enzyme. quercetin  a naturally occurring bioflavinoid  was previously shown to inhibit ptdins 3-kinase with an ic50 of 1.3 microgram/ml (3.8 microm); inhibition appeared to be directed at the atp-binding site of the kinase. analogs of quercetin were investigated as ptdins 3-kinase inhibitors  with the most potent ones exhibiting ic50 values in the range of 1.7-8.4 micrograms/ml. in contrast  genistein  a potent tyrosine kinase inhibitor of the isoflavone class  did not inhibit ptdins 3-kinase significantly (ic50 > 30 micrograms/ml). since quercetin has also been shown to inhibit other ptdins and protein kinases  other chromones were evaluated as inhibitors of ptdins 3-kinase without affecting ptdins 4-kinase or selected protein kinases. one such compound  2-(4-morpholinyl)-8-phenyl-4h-1-benzopyran-4-one (also known as 2-(4-morpholinyl)-8-phenylchromone  ly294002)  completely and specifically abolished ptdins 3-kinase activity (ic50 = 0.43 microgram/ml; 1.40 microm) but did not inhibit ptdins 4-kinase or tested protein and lipid kinases. analogs of ly294002 demonstrated a very selective structure-activity relationship  with slight changes in structure causing marked decreases in inhibition. ly294002 was shown to completely abolish ptdins 3-kinase activity in fmet-leu-phe-stimulated human neutrophils  as well as inhibit proliferation of smooth muscle cells in cultured rabbit aortic segments. since ptdins 3-kinase appears to be centrally involved with growth factor signal transduction  the development of specific inhibitors against the kinase may be beneficial in the treatment of proliferative diseases as well as in elucidating the biological role of the kinase in cellular proliferation and growth factor response.
2970,prev | table of contents reports embryonic stem cell lines derived from human,human blastocyst-derived  pluripotent cell lines are described that have normal karyotypes  express high levels of telomerase activity  and express cell surface markers that characterize primate embryonic stem cells but do not characterize other early lineages. after undifferentiated proliferation in vitro for 4 to 5 months  these cells still maintained the developmental potential to form trophoblast and derivatives of all three embryonic germ layers  including gut epithelium (endoderm); cartilage  bone  smooth muscle  and striated muscle (mesoderm); and neural epithelium  embryonic ganglia  and stratified squamous epithelium (ectoderm). these cell lines should be useful in human developmental biology  drug discovery  and transplantation medicine.
2972,mvp-mediated exosomal sorting of mir-193a promotes colon cancer progression,exosomes are emerging mediators of intercellular communication; whether the release of exosomes has an effect on the exosome donor cells in addition to the recipient cells has not been investigated to any extent. here  we examine different exosomal mirna expression profiles in primary mouse colon tumour  liver metastasis of colon cancer and naive colon tissues. in more advanced disease  higher levels of tumour suppressor mirnas are encapsulated in the exosomes. mir-193a interacts with major vault protein (mvp). knockout of mvp leads to mir-193a accumulation in the exosomal donor cells instead of exosomes  inhibiting tumour progression. furthermore  mir-193a causes cell cycle g1 arrest and cell proliferation repression through targeting of caprin1  which upregulates ccnd2 and c-myc. human colon cancer patients with more advanced disease show higher levels of circulating exosomal mir-193a. in summary  our data demonstrate that mvp-mediated selective sorting of tumour suppressor mirna into exosomes promotes tumour progression.
2974,bone marrow failure and developmental delay caused by mutations in poly(a)-specific ribonuclease (parn).,background deadenylation regulates rna function and fate. poly(a)-specific ribonuclease (parn) is a deadenylase that processes mrnas and non-coding rna. little is known about the biological significance of germline mutations in parn. methods we identified mutations in parn in patients with haematological and neurological manifestations. genomic  biochemical and knockdown experiments in human marrow cells and in zebrafish have been performed to clarify the role of parn in the human disease. results we identified large monoallelic deletions in parn in four patients with developmental delay or mental illness. one patient in particular had a severe neurological phenotype  central hypomyelination and bone marrow failure. this patient had an additional missense mutation on the non-deleted allele and severely reduced parn protein and deadenylation activity. cells from this patient had impaired oligoadenylation of specific h/aca box small nucleolar rnas. importantly  parn-deficient patient cells manifested short telomeres and an aberrant ribosome profile similar to those described in some variants of dyskeratosis congenita. knocking down parn in human marrow cells and zebrafish impaired haematopoiesis  providing further evidence for a causal link with the human disease. conclusions large monoallelic mutations of parn can cause developmental/mental illness. biallelic parn mutations cause severe bone marrow failure and central hypomyelination.
2976,microrna-192 in diabetic kidney glomeruli and its function in tgf-beta-induced collagen expression via inhibition of e-box repressors.,key features of diabetic nephropathy (dn) include the accumulation of extracellular matrix proteins such as collagen 1-alpha 1 and -2 (col1a1 and -2). transforming growth factor beta1 (tgf-beta)  a key regulator of these extracellular matrix genes  is increased in mesangial cells (mc) in dn. by microarray profiling  we noted that tgf-beta increased col1a2 mrna in mouse mc (mmc) but also decreased mrna levels of an e-box repressor  deltaef1. tgf-beta treatment or short hairpin rnas targeting deltaef1 increased enhancer activity of upstream e-box elements in the col1a2 gene. tgf-beta also decreased the expression of smad-interacting protein 1 (sip1)  another e-box repressor similar to deltaef1. interestingly  we noted that sip1 is a target of microrna-192 (mir-192)  a key mir highly expressed in the kidney. mir-192 levels also were increased by tgf-beta in mmc. tgf-beta treatment or transfection with mir-192 decreased endogenous sip1 expression as well as reporter activity of a sip1 3' utr-containing luciferase construct in mmc. conversely  a mir-192 inhibitor enhanced the luciferase activity  confirming sip1 to be a mir-192 target. furthermore  mir-192 synergized with deltaef1 short hairpin rnas to increase col1a2 e-box-luc activity. importantly  the in vivo relevance was noted by the observation that mir-192 levels were enhanced significantly in glomeruli isolated from streptozotocin-injected diabetic mice as well as diabetic db/db mice relative to corresponding nondiabetic controls  in parallel with increased tgf-beta and col1a2 levels. these results uncover a role for mirs in the kidney and dn in controlling tgf-beta-induced col1a2 expression by down-regulating e-box repressors.
2978,polyphosphate kinase 1  a central node in the stress response network of mycobacterium tuberculosis  connects the two-component systems mprab and senx3-regx3 and the extracytoplasmic function sigma factor  sigma e.,polyphosphate (poly p) metabolism regulates the stress response in mycobacteria. here we describe the regulatory architecture of a signal transduction system involving the two-component system (tcs) senx3-regx3  the extracytoplasmic function sigma factor sigma e (sige) and the poly p-synthesizing enzyme polyphosphate kinase 1 (ppk1). the ppk1 promoter of mycobacterium tuberculosis is activated under phosphate starvation. this is attenuated upon deletion of an imperfect palindrome likely representing a binding site for the response regulator regx3  a component of the two-component system senx3-regx3 that responds to phosphate starvation. binding of phosphorylated regx3 to this site was confirmed by electrophoretic mobility shift assay. the activity of the ppk1 promoter was abrogated upon deletion of a putative sige binding site. pull-down of sige from m. tuberculosis lysates of phosphate-starved cells with a biotinylated dna harbouring the sige binding site confirmed the likely binding of sige to the ppk1 promoter. in vitro transcription corroborated the involvement of sige in ppk1 transcription. finally  the overexpression of rsea (anti-sige) attenuated ppk1 expression under phosphate starvation  supporting the role of sige in ppk1 transcription. the regulatory elements identified in ppk1 transcription in this study  combined with our earlier observation that ppk1 is itself capable of regulating sige expression via the mprab tcs  suggest the presence of multiple positive-feedback loops in this signalling circuit. in combination with the sequestering effect of rsea  we hypothesize that this architecture could be linked to bistability in the system that  in turn  could be a key element of persistence in m. tuberculosis.
2980,a search for the presence of the enteroviral capsid protein vp1 in pancreases of patients with type 1 (insulin-dependent) diabetes and pancreases and hearts of infants who died of coxsackieviral myocarditis,using an antiserum raised to a recombinant coxsackie virus b3 capsid protein  vp1  an immunocytochemical technique was developed which was capable of detecting the presence of all coxsackie b viruses in formalin fixed paraffin embedded infected tissue culture cells. this technique was tested on autopsy heart and pancreas from 21 patients who were thought to have died of acute coxsackievirus b myocarditis. cardiac myocytes were positive for the vp1 protein in 12 of 20 cases where the heart was available for study. insulitis was present in the pancreas in seven of these cases and in all seven islet endocrine cells containing vp1 were found. vp1 was only rarely found in exocrine pancreas. in heart and pancreas  cells shown to contain vp1 usually showed signs of necrosis. autopsy pancreases from 88 patients who had died at clinical presentation of type 1 (insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus showed no evidence of the presence of vp1. the continuing destruction of insulin-secreting b cells seen at the time of death in the diabetic pancreas is unlikely to be due to a direct cytopathic effect of a coxsackie b virus. however  this study does not exclude the possibility that a persistent infection of b cells by a defective enterovirus may result in their destruction by an autoimmune mechanism.
2982,effects of risedronate treatment on vertebral and nonvertebral fractures in women with postmenopausal osteoporosis: a randomized controlled trial. vertebral efficacy with risedronate therapy (vert) study group.,context risedronate  a potent bisphosphonate  has been shown to be effective in the treatment of paget disease of bone and other metabolic bone diseases but  to our knowledge  it has not been evaluated in the treatment of established postmenopausal osteoporosis. objective to test the efficacy and safety of daily treatment with risedronate to reduce the risk of vertebral and other fractures in postmenopausal women with established osteoporosis. design  setting  and participants randomized  double-blind  placebo-controlled trial of 2458 ambulatory postmenopausal women younger than 85 years with at least 1 vertebral fracture at baseline who were enrolled at 1 of 110 centers in north america conducted between december 1993 and january 1998. interventions subjects were randomly assigned to receive oral treatment for 3 years with risedronate (2.5 or 5 mg/d) or placebo. all subjects received calcium  1000 mg/d. vitamin d (cholecalciferol  up to 500 iu/d) was provided if baseline levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin d were low. main outcome measures incidence of new vertebral fractures as detected by quantitative and semiquantitative assessments of radiographs; incidence of radiographically confirmed nonvertebral fractures and change from baseline in bone mineral density as determined by dual x-ray absorptiometry. results the 2.5 mg/d of risedronate arm was discontinued after 1 year; in the placebo and 5 mg/d of risedronate arms  450 and 489 subjects  respectively  completed all 3 years of the trial. treatment with 5 mg/d of risedronate  compared with placebo  decreased the cumulative incidence of new vertebral fractures by 41 % (95% confidence interval [ci]  18%-58%) over 3 years (11.3 % vs 16.3%; p= .003). a fracture reduction of 65% (95% ci  38%-81 %) was observed after the first year (2.4% vs 6.4%; p<.001). the cumulative incidence of nonvertebral fractures over 3 years was reduced by 39% (95% ci  6%-61 %) (5.2 % vs 8.4%; p = .02). bone mineral density increased significantly compared with placebo at the lumbar spine (5.4% vs 1.1 %)  femoral neck (1.6% vs -1.2%)  femoral trochanter (3.3% vs -0.7%)  and midshaft of the radius (0.2% vs -1.4%). bone formed during risedronate treatment was histologically normal. the overall safety profile of risedronate  including gastrointestinal safety  was similar to that of placebo. conclusions these data suggest that risedronate therapy is effective and well tolerated in the treatment of women with established postmenopausal osteoporosis.
2984,loss of fibronectin from the aged stem cell niche affects the regenerative capacity of skeletal muscle in mice,age-related changes in the niche have long been postulated to impair the function of somatic stem cells. here we demonstrate that the aged stem cell niche in skeletal muscle contains substantially reduced levels of fibronectin (fn)  leading to detrimental consequences for the function and maintenance of muscle stem cells (muscs). deletion of the gene encoding fn from young regenerating muscles replicates the aging phenotype and leads to a loss of musc numbers. by using an extracellular matrix (ecm) library screen and pathway profiling  we characterize fn as a preferred adhesion substrate for muscs and demonstrate that integrin-mediated signaling through focal adhesion kinase and the p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway is strongly de-regulated in muscs from aged mice because of insufficient attachment to the niche. reconstitution of fn levels in the aged niche remobilizes stem cells and restores youth-like muscle regeneration. taken together  we identify the loss of stem cell adhesion to fn in the niche ecm as a previously unknown aging mechanism.
2986,why do patients with multimorbidity in england report worse experiences in primary care? evidence from the general practice patient survey,objectives to describe and explain the primary care experiences of people with multiple long-term conditions in england. design and methods using questionnaire data from 906 578 responders to the english 2012 general practice patient survey  we describe the primary care experiences of patients with long-term conditions  including 583 143 patients who reported one or more long-term conditions. we employed mixed effect logistic regressions to analyse data on six items covering three care domains (access  continuity and communication) and a single item on overall primary care experience. we controlled for sociodemographic characteristics  and for general practice using a random effect  and further  controlled for  and explored the importance of  health-related quality of life measured using the euroqol (eq-5d) scale. results most patients with long-term conditions report a positive experience of care at their general practice (after adjusting for sociodemographic characteristics and general practice  range 74.0-93.1% reporting positive experience of care across seven questions) with only modest variation by type of condition. for all three domains of patient experience  an increasing number of comorbid conditions is associated with a reducing percentage of patients reporting a positive experience of care. for example  compared with respondents with no long-term condition  the or for reporting a positive experience is 0.83 (95% ci 0.80 to 0.87) for respondents with four or more long-term conditions. however  this relationship is no longer observed after adjusting for health-related quality of life (or (95% ci) single condition=1.23 (1.21 to 1.26); four or more conditions=1.31 (1.25 to 1.37))  with pain making the greatest difference among five quality of life variables included in the analysis. conclusions patients with multiple long-term conditions more frequently report worse experiences in primary care. however  patient-centred measures of health-related quality of life  especially pain  are more important than the number of conditions in explaining why patients with multiple long-term conditions report worse experiences of care.
2988,successful mouse cloning of an outbred strain by trichostatin a treatment after somatic nuclear transfer.,although the somatic cloning technique has been used for numerous applications and basic research of reprogramming in various species  extremely low success rates have plagued this technique for a decade. further in mice  the "clonable" strains have been limited to mainly hybrid f1 strains such as b6d2f1. recently  we established a new efficient cloning technique using trichostatin a (tsa) which leads to a 2-5 fold increase in success rates for mouse cloning of b6d2f1 cumulus cells. to further test the validity of this tsa cloning technique  we tried to clone the adult icr mouse  an outbred strain  which has never been directly cloned before. only when tsa was used did we obtain both male and female cloned mice from cumulus and fibroblast cells of adult icr mice with 4-5% success rates  which is comparable to 5-7% of b6d2f1. thus  the tsa treatment is the first cloning technique to allow us to successfully clone outbred mice  demonstrating that this technique not only improves the success rates of cloning from hybrid strains  but also enables mouse cloning from normally "unclonable" strains.
2990,recq helicases: caretakers of the genome,recq helicases are highly conserved from bacteria to man. germline mutations in three of the five known family members in humans give rise to debilitating disorders that are characterized by  amongst other things  a predisposition to the development of cancer. one of these disorders — bloom's syndrome — is uniquely associated with a predisposition to cancers of all types. so how do recq helicases protect against cancer? they seem to maintain genomic stability by functioning at the interface between dna replication and dna repair.
2992,dynamic regulation of heterochromatin function via phosphorylation of hp1-family proteins.,heterochromatin is characterized by methylation of histone h3 at lysine 9  which is recognized by well-conserved hp1-family proteins. heterochromatin participates in various chromosome functions  which include transcriptional gene silencing and sister-chromatid cohesion. these heterochromatic functions are carried out by various effector proteins that associate with hp1-family proteins; however  the regulation of this association with the effectors is not well understood. recently  we showed that phosphorylation of the fission-yeast hp1 homolog swi6 regulates the association of the transcriptional regulators differentially and changes the transcriptional activity of heterochromatin  without affecting sister-chromatid cohesion. this study  together with another study performed using other systems  indicates that phosphorylation of hp1/swi6 provides a dynamic pathway for the differential regulation of heterochromatin in response to inter- and intracellular signals.
2994,control over dna replication in time and space.,dna replication is precisely regulated in time and space  thereby safeguarding genomic integrity. in eukaryotes  replication initiates from multiple sites along the genome  termed origins of replication  and propagates bidirectionally. dynamic origin bound complexes dictate where and when replication should initiate. during late mitosis and g1 phase  putative origins are recognized and become "licensed" through the assembly of pre-replicative complexes (pre-rcs) that include the mcm2-7 helicases. subsequently  at the g1/s phase transition  a fraction of pre-rcs are activated giving rise to the establishment of replication forks. origin location is influenced by chromatin and nuclear organization and origin selection exhibits stochastic features. the regulatory mechanisms that govern these cell cycle events rely on the periodic fluctuation of cyclin dependent kinase (cdk) activity through the cell cycle.
2996,relevance of asystole during head-up tilt testing.,the prognosis of patients manifesting prolonged asystole during head-up tilt testing is unclear. in 209 consecutive patients with a history of syncope and positive head-up tilt tests  19 had asystole lasting > 5 seconds (mean duration 15 +/- 10) (group 1a). when compared with patients without asystole (group 1b)  group 1a patients were younger (32 +/- 12 vs 47 +/- 21 years  p < 0.005)  but clinical manifestations were not any more dramatic (the number of episodes of syncope [7 +/- 5 vs 8 +/- 6 episodes  p = ns] and injury during syncope [2 vs 13 patients  p = ns] were similar). during follow-up (mean 2 +/- 1 year)  with the patient taking pharmacologic therapy such as beta blockers  ephedrine  theophylline  or disopyramide  the recurrence rate was 11% and 8% in groups 1a and 1b (p = ns). no patient in the asystole group underwent pacemaker implantation. additionally  of 75 normal volunteers (group 2) with no history of syncope undergoing tilt tests to define its specificity  3 had asystole (mean duration 10 seconds). during > 1 year of follow-up  despite no treatment  all 3 are symptom free. thus  asystole during head-up tilt testing does not predict either a more malignant outcome or a poor response to pharmacologic therapy. moreover  an asystolic response does not enhance the specificity of the head-up tilt test because it may be present in asymptomatic "normal" volunteers.
2998,mitochondrial rna granules are centers for posttranscriptional rna processing and ribosome biogenesis.,cytoplasmic rna granules play a central role in mrna metabolism  but the importance of mitochondrial rna granules remains relatively unexplored. we characterized their proteome and found that they contain a large toolbox of proteins dedicated to rna metabolism. investigation of four uncharacterized putative rna-binding proteins-two rna helicases  dhx30 and ddx28  and two proteins of the fas-activated serine-threonine kinase (fastkd) family  fastkd2 and fastkd5-demonstrated that both helicases and fastkd2 are required for mitochondrial ribosome biogenesis. rna-sequencing (rna-seq) analysis showed that ddx28 and fastkd2 bound the 16s rrna. fastkd5 is required for maturing precursor mrnas that are not flanked by trnas and that therefore cannot be processed by the canonical mrna maturation pathway. silencing fastkd5 rendered mature cox i mrna almost undetectable  which severely reduced the synthesis of cox i  resulting in a complex iv assembly defect. these data demonstrate that mitochondrial rna granules are centers for posttranscriptional rna processing and the biogenesis of mitochondrial ribosomes.
3000,reprogramming fibroblasts into bipotential hepatic stem cells by defined factors.,recent studies have demonstrated direct reprogramming of fibroblasts into a range of somatic cell types  but to date stem or progenitor cells have only been reprogrammed for the blood and neuronal lineages. we previously reported generation of induced hepatocyte-like (ihep) cells by transduction of gata4  hnf1α  and foxa3 in p19 arf null mouse embryonic fibroblasts (mefs). here  we show that hnf1β and foxa3  liver organogenesis transcription factors  are sufficient to reprogram mefs into induced hepatic stem cells (ihepscs). ihepscs can be stably expanded in vitro and possess the potential of bidirectional differentiation into both hepatocytic and cholangiocytic lineages. in the injured liver of fumarylacetoacetate hydrolase (fah)-deficient mice  repopulating ihepscs become hepatocyte-like cells. they also engraft as cholangiocytes into bile ducts of mice with ddc-induced bile ductular injury. lineage conversion into bipotential expandable ihepscs provides a strategy to enable efficient derivation of both hepatocytes and cholangiocytes for use in disease modeling and tissue engineering.
3002,development and evaluation of a self-administered computerized 24-h dietary recall method for adolescents in europe,objective:to describe the development of a european computerized 24-h dietary recall method for adolescents  and to investigate the feasibility of self-administration (self report) by comparison with administration by a dietician (interview).methods:two hundred and thirty-six adolescents (mean age 14.6 years (s.d.=1.7)) of eight european cities completed the 24-h recall (young adolescents nutrition assessment on computer (yana-c)) twice (once by self-report and once by interview).results:a small but significant underestimate in energy (61 (s.e.=31) kcal) and fat (4.2 (s.e.=1.7) g) intake was found in the self-reports in comparison with the interviews; no significant differences were found for the intake of carbohydrates  proteins  fibre  calcium  iron and ascorbic acid. spearman's correlations were highly significant for all nutrients and energy ranging between 0.86 and 0.91. agreement in categorizing the respondents as consumers and non-consumers for the 29 food groups was high (kappa statistics ⩾0.73). percentage omissions were on average 3.7%; percentage intrusions: 2.0%. spearman's correlations between both modes were high for all food groups  for the total sample (⩾0.76) as well as for the consumers only (⩾0.72). analysing the consumer only  on an average 54% of the consumed amounts were exactly the same; nevertheless  only for one group ‘rice and pasta’ a significant difference in consumption was found. conclusion:adaptation  translation and standardization of yana-c make it possible to assess the dietary intake of adolescents in a broad international context. in general  good agreement between the administration modes was found  the latter offering significant potential for large-scale surveys where the amount of resources to gather data is limited.
3004,polo-like kinase 1 regulates nlp  a centrosome protein involved in microtubule nucleation.,in animal cells  most microtubules are nucleated at centrosomes. at the onset of mitosis  centrosomes undergo a structural reorganization  termed maturation  which leads to increased microtubule nucleation activity. centrosome maturation is regulated by several kinases  including polo-like kinase 1 (plk1). here  we identify a centrosomal plk1 substrate  termed nlp (ninein-like protein)  whose properties suggest an important role in microtubule organization. nlp interacts with two components of the gamma-tubulin ring complex and stimulates microtubule nucleation. plk1 phosphorylates nlp and disrupts both its centrosome association and its gamma-tubulin interaction. overexpression of an nlp mutant lacking plk1 phosphorylation sites severely disturbs mitotic spindle formation. we propose that nlp plays an important role in microtubule organization during interphase  and that the activation of plk1 at the onset of mitosis triggers the displacement of nlp from the centrosome  allowing the establishment of a mitotic scaffold with enhanced microtubule nucleation activity.
3006,homogeneously dispersed multimetal oxygen-evolving catalysts,earth-abundant first-row (3d) transition metal–based catalysts have been developed for the oxygen-evolution reaction (oer); however  they operate at overpotentials substantially above thermodynamic requirements. density functional theory suggested that non-3d high-valency metals such as tungsten can modulate 3d metal oxides  providing near-optimal adsorption energies for oer intermediates. we developed a room-temperature synthesis to produce gelled oxyhydroxides materials with an atomically homogeneous metal distribution. these gelled fecow oxyhydroxides exhibit the lowest overpotential (191 millivolts) reported at 10 milliamperes per square centimeter in alkaline electrolyte. the catalyst shows no evidence of degradation after more than 500 hours of operation. x-ray absorption and computational studies reveal a synergistic interplay between tungsten  iron  and cobalt in producing a favorable local coordination environment and electronic structure that enhance the energetics for oer.
3008,circulating tumor cells: a useful predictor of treatment efficacy in metastatic breast cancer.,purpose five or more circulating tumor cells (ctcs) per 7.5 ml of blood predicts for poorer progression-free survival (pfs) in patients with metastatic breast cancer (mbc). we conducted a prospective study to demonstrate that ctc results correlate strongly with radiographic disease progression at the time of and in advance of imaging. patients and methods serial ctc levels were obtained in patients starting a new treatment regimen for progressive  radiographically measurable mbc. peripheral blood was collected for ctc enumeration at baseline and at 3- to 4-week intervals. clinical outcomes were based on radiographic studies performed in 9- to 12-week intervals. results sixty-eight patients were evaluable for the ctc-imaging correlations  and 74 patients were evaluable for the pfs analysis. median follow-up was 13.3 months. a statistically significant correlation was demonstrated between ctc levels and radiographic disease progression in patients receiving chemotherapy or endocrine therapy. this correlation applied to ctc results obtained at the time of imaging (odds ratio [or]  6.3)  3 to 5 weeks before imaging (or  3.1)  and 7 to 9 weeks before imaging (or  4.9). results from analyses stratified by type of therapy remained statistically significant. shorter pfs was observed for patients with five or more ctcs at 3 to 5 weeks and at 7 to 9 weeks after the start of treatment. conclusion we provide  to our knowledge  the first evidence of a strong correlation between ctc results and radiographic disease progression in patients receiving chemotherapy or endocrine therapy for mbc. these findings support the role of ctc enumeration as an adjunct to standard methods of monitoring disease status in mbc.
3010,"grazing": a high-risk behavior.,background gastric bypass patients with a range of disturbed eating patterns before surgery may be at risk of returning to old patterns postoperatively. recent research has shown that binge eating is common among the obese before surgery as well as in the postoperative maintenance phase and appears to be linked to poorer outcome. although "grazing" behavior has not been specifically studied  it is also a high-risk pattern. this paper is a descriptive investigation summarizing postoperative eating patterns in a group of patients. methods patients completed self-report questionnaires before surgery and were seen for a preoperative mental health evaluation with particular focus on assessing eating patterns. patients with high-risk eating patterns  both binge eating and "grazing"  were identified  invited to attend a post-surgery therapy group  and were given additional follow-up questionnaires regarding postoperative eating patterns. results consistent with recent studies  many high-risk patients reported recurrent loss of control over eating and  in some cases  subsequent weight gain. although no longer able to eat large amounts  "grazing" became a more common pattern  appearing >or=6 months following surgery. conclusion different forms of overeating need to be assessed in this population  focusing on the subjective loss of control rather than on the quantity consumed. although many patients do not meet strict criteria for binge eating disorder before surgery  these "grazers" are also high-risk. former binge eaters often turn into "grazers" following surgery. interventions are needed for at-risk patients.
3012,microbiome-driven allergic lung inflammation is ameliorated by short-chain fatty acids,the mammalian gastrointestinal tract harbors a microbial community with metabolic activity critical for host health  including metabolites that can modulate effector functions of immune cells. mice treated with vancomycin have an altered microbiome and metabolite profile  exhibit exacerbated t helper type 2 cell (th2) responses  and are more susceptible to allergic lung inflammation. here we show that dietary supplementation with short-chain fatty acids (scfas) ameliorates this enhanced asthma susceptibility by modulating the activity of t cells and dendritic cells (dcs). dysbiotic mice treated with scfas have fewer interleukin-4 (il4)-producing cd4+ t cells and decreased levels of circulating immunoglobulin e (ige). in addition  dcs exposed to scfas activate t cells less robustly  are less motile in response to ccl19 in vitro  and exhibit a dampened ability to transport inhaled allergens to lung draining nodes. our data thus demonstrate that gut dysbiosis can exacerbate allergic lung inflammation through both t cell- and dc-dependent mechanisms that are inhibited by scfas.
3014,signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 is a transcriptional factor regulating the gene expression of sall4.,both signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (stat3) and sall4 are important in maintaining the pluripotent and self-renewal state of embryonic stem cells. we hypothesized that stat3  a latent transcriptional factor  may regulate the gene expression of sall4. in support of this hypothesis  dna sequence analysis of the sall4 gene promoter revealed four putative stat3-binding sites. using a sall4-luciferase reporter gene assay  we found that modulation of the stat3 activity significantly up-regulated the luciferase activity. by chromatin immunoprecipitation  the segment of the sall4 promoter showing the highest affinity to stat3 was localized to -366 to -163  in which there was only one putative stat3 binding site starting at -199. site-directed mutagenesis of all four putative stat3-binding sites in the sall4 promoter significantly reduced its responsiveness to stat3  although the most dramatic effect was seen at the binding site starting at -199. we further tested the functional relationship between stat3 and sall4 using mda-mb-231  a breast cell line carrying constitutive sall4 expression and stat3 activity. down-regulation of the stat3 activity using a dominant-negative construct resulted in a significant decrease in the expression of sall4. to conclude  our data suggest that stat3 and sall4 probably cooperate in both physiological and pathological states.
3016,the american rheumatism association 1987 revised criteria for the classification of rheumatoid arthritis.,the revised criteria for the classification of rheumatoid arthritis (ra) were formulated from a computerized analysis of 262 contemporary  consecutively studied patients with ra and 262 control subjects with rheumatic diseases other than ra (non-ra). the new criteria are as follows: 1) morning stiffness in and around joints lasting at least 1 hour before maximal improvement; 2) soft tissue swelling (arthritis) of 3 or more joint areas observed by a physician; 3) swelling (arthritis) of the proximal interphalangeal  metacarpophalangeal  or wrist joints; 4) symmetric swelling (arthritis); 5) rheumatoid nodules; 6) the presence of rheumatoid factor; and 7) radiographic erosions and/or periarticular osteopenia in hand and/or wrist joints. criteria 1 through 4 must have been present for at least 6 weeks. rheumatoid arthritis is defined by the presence of 4 or more criteria  and no further qualifications (classic  definite  or probable) or list of exclusions are required. in addition  a "classification tree" schema is presented which performs equally as well as the traditional (4 of 7) format. the new criteria demonstrated 91-94% sensitivity and 89% specificity for ra when compared with non-ra rheumatic disease control subjects.
3018,involving family members in cancer care: focus group considerations of patients and oncological providers.,family members are an integral part of a patient's cancer care from the moment the diagnosis is delivered to the conclusion of treatment. family members bring with them a range of emotional reactions  interpersonal dynamics and expectations for the care the patient receives. this study is part of a multi-institutional project to continue to improve the process of cancer care. in this study  19 focus groups (11 patient and 8 provider) were conducted concerning issues related to doctor-patient communication in eight cancer centers in the united states. the content of the conversations was analyzed and thematic categories emerged that highlight the various strengths and difficulties associated with family involvement. the focus groups' comments support the need for explicit conversations between professional caregivers  patients and their loved ones  in order to negotiate the expectations and needs of each team member. implications for clinical practice and strategies for working with family members are offered.
3020,origin and t cell receptor diversity of foxp3+cd4+cd25+ t cells.,foxp3(+)cd4(+)cd25(+) regulatory t cells can differentiate from foxp3(-)cd4(+) medullary thymocytes and foxp3(-)cd4(+) naive t cells. however  the impact of these two processes on size and composition of the peripheral repertoire of regulatory t cells is unclear. here we followed the fate of individual foxp3(+)cd4(+)cd25(+) thymocytes and t cells in vivo in t cell receptor (tcr) transgenic mice that express a restricted but polyclonal repertoire of tcrs. by utilizing high-throughput single-cell analysis  we showed that foxp3(+)cd4(+) peripheral t cells were derived from thymic precursors that expressed a different tcrs than foxp3(-)cd4(+) medullary thymocytes and foxp3(-)cd4(+) t cells. furthermore  the diversity of tcrs on foxp3(+)cd4(+) regulatory t cells exceeded the diversity of tcrs on foxp3(-)cd4(+) naive t cells  even in mice that lack expression of tissue-specific antigens. our results imply that higher tcr diversity on foxp3(+) regulatory t cells helps these cells to match the specificities of autoreactive and naive t cells.
3022,replication fork slowing and reversal upon dna damage require pcna polyubiquitination and zranb3 dna translocase activity,dna damage tolerance during eukaryotic replication is orchestrated by pcna ubiquitination. while monoubiquitination activates mutagenic translesion synthesis  polyubiquitination activates an error-free pathway  elusive in mammals  enabling damage bypass by template switching. fork reversal is driven in vitro by multiple enzymes  including the dna translocase zranb3  shown to bind polyubiquitinated pcna. however  whether this interaction promotes fork remodeling and template switching in vivo was unknown. here we show that damage-induced fork reversal in mammalian cells requires pcna ubiquitination  ubc13  and k63-linked polyubiquitin chains  previously involved in error-free damage tolerance. fork reversal in vivo also requires zranb3 translocase activity and its interaction with polyubiquitinated pcna  pinpointing zranb3 as a key effector of error-free dna damage tolerance. mutations affecting fork reversal also induced unrestrained fork progression and chromosomal breakage  suggesting fork remodeling as a global fork slowing and protection mechanism. targeting these fork protection systems represents a promising strategy to potentiate cancer chemotherapy.
3024,decoupling activation and exhaustion of b cells in spontaneous controllers of hiv infection.,objective to define the impact of chronic viremia and associated immune activation on b-cell exhaustion in hiv infection. design progressive hiv infection is marked by b-cell anergy and exhaustion coupled with dramatic hypergammaglobulinemia. although both upregulation of cd95 and loss of cd21 have been used as markers of infection-associated b-cell dysfunction  little is known regarding the specific profiles of dysfunctional b cells and whether persistent viral replication and its associated immune activation play a central role in driving b-cell dysfunction. methods multiparameter flow cytometry was used to define the profile of dysfunctional b cells. the changes in the expression of cd21 and cd95 were tracked on b-cell subpopulations in patients with differential control of viral replication. results : although the emergence of exhausted  cd21 tissue-like memory b cells followed similar patterns in both progressors and controllers  the frequency of cd21 activated memory b cells was lower in spontaneous controllers. conclusion our results suggest that the loss of cd21 and the upregulation of cd95 occur as separate events during the development of b-cell dysfunction. the loss of cd21 is a marker of b-cell exhaustion induced in the absence of appreciable viral replication  whereas the upregulation of cd95 is tightly linked to persistent viral replication and its associated immune activation. thus  these dysfunctional profiles potentially represent two functionally distinct states within the b-cell compartment.
3026,a common variant in brca2 is associated with both breast cancer risk and prenatal viability,inherited mutations in the gene brca2 predispose carriers to early onset breast cancer  but such mutations account for fewer than 2% of all cases in east anglia. it is likely that low penetrance alleles explain the greater part of inherited susceptibility to breast cancer; polymorphic variants in strongly predisposing genes  such as brca2  are candidates for this role. brca2 is thought to be involved in dna double strand break-repair. few mice in which brca2 is truncated survive to birth; of those that do  most are male  smaller than their normal littermates and have high cancer incidence. here we show that a common human polymorphism (n372h) in exon 10 of brca2 confers an increased risk of breast cancer: the hh homozygotes have a 1.31-fold (95% ci  1.07–1.61) greater risk than the nn group. moreover  in normal female controls of all ages there is a significant deficiency of homozygotes compared with that expected from hardy-weinberg equilibrium  whereas in males there is an excess of homozygotes: the hh group has an estimated fitness of 0.82 in females and 1.38 in males. therefore  this variant of brca2 appears also to affect fetal survival in a sex-dependent manner.
3028,lipid homeostasis  lipotoxicity and the metabolic syndrome.,in the 20th century industrialized nations have become afflicted with an unprecedented pandemic of increased adiposity. in the united states  the epicenter of the epidemic  over 2/3 of the population  is overweight and 1 of every 6 americans carries the diagnosis of metabolic syndrome. although genes determine susceptibility to environmental factors  the epidemic is clearly due to increased consumption of calorie-dense  highly lipogenic foods  coupled with a marked decrease in physical exertion resulting from modern technologies. if this lifestyle continues  morbid consequences are virtually inevitable. they include type ii diabetes and a cluster of disorders known as "the metabolic syndrome" usually appearing in middle age. the morbid consequences of the chronic caloric surplus are buffered before middle age by the partitioning of these calories as fat in the adipocyte compartment which is specifically designed to store triglycerides. leptin has been proposed as the major hormonal regulator of the partitioning of surplus calories. however  multiple factors can determine the storage capacity of the fat tissue and when it is exceeded ectopic lipid deposition begins. the organs affected in metabolic syndrome include skeletal muscle  liver  heart and pancreas  which are now known to contain abnormal levels of triglycerides. while neutral fat is probably harmless  it is an index of ectopic lipid overload. fatty acid derivatives can interfere with the function of the cell and ultimately lead to its demise through lipoapoptosis  the consequences of which are gradual organ failure.
3030,the transcription factor t-bet regulates intestinal inflammation mediated by interleukin-7 receptor+ innate lymphoid cells,mice lacking the transcription factor t-bet in the innate immune system develop microbiota-dependent colitis. here  we show that interleukin-17a (il-17a)-producing il-7rα(+) innate lymphoid cells (ilcs) were potent promoters of disease in tbx21(-/-)rag2(-/-) ulcerative colitis (truc) mice. tnf-α produced by cd103(-)cd11b(+) dendritic cells synergized with il-23 to drive il-17a production by ilcs  demonstrating a previously unrecognized layer of cellular crosstalk between dendritic cells and ilcs. we have identified helicobacter typhlonius as a key disease trigger driving excess tnf-α production and promoting colitis in truc mice. crucially  t-bet also suppressed the expression of il-7r  a key molecule involved in controlling intestinal ilc homeostasis. the importance of il-7r signaling in truc disease was highlighted by the dramatic reduction in intestinal ilcs and attenuated colitis following il-7r blockade. taken together  these data demonstrate the mechanism by which t-bet regulates the complex interplay between mucosal dendritic cells  ilcs  and the intestinal microbiota.
3032,α-catenin as a tension transducer that induces adherens junction development,adherens junctions (ajs)  which are organized by adhesion proteins and the underlying actin cytoskeleton  probably sense pulling forces from adjacent cells and modulate opposing forces to maintain tissue integrity  but the regulatory mechanism remains unknown at the molecular level. although the possibility that α-catenin acts as a direct linker between the membrane and the actin cytoskeleton for aj formation and function has been minimized  here we show that α-catenin recruits vinculin  another main actin-binding protein of ajs  through force-dependent changes in α-catenin conformation. we identified regions in the α-catenin molecule that are required for its force-dependent binding of vinculin by introducing mutant α-catenin into cells and using in vitro binding assays. fluorescence recovery after photobleaching analysis for α-catenin mobility and the existence of an antibody recognizing α-catenin in a force-dependent manner further supported the notion that α-catenin is a tension transducer that translates mechanical stimuli into a chemical response  resulting in aj development.
3034,development and validation of a measure of emotional intelligence,this series of studies describes the development of a measure of emotional intelligence based on the model of emotional intelligence developed by salovey and mayer [salovey  p. & mayer  j. d. (1990). emotional intelligence. imagination  cognition and personality  9  185–211.]. a pool of 62 items represented the different dimensions of the model. a factor analysis of the responses of 346 participants suggested the creation of a 33-item scale. additional studies showed the 33-item measure to have good internal consistency and testretest reliability. validation studies showed that scores on the 33-item measure  1. (a) correlated with eight of nine theoretically related constructs  including alexithymia  attention to feelings  clarity of feelings  mood repair  optimism and impulse control;    2.  (b) predicted first-year college grades;    3. (c) were significantly higher for therapists than for therapy clients or for prisoners;    4.  (d) were significantly higher for females than males  consistent with prior findings in studies of emotional skills;    5. (e) were not related to cognitive ability and    6. (f) were associated with the openness to experience trait of the big five personality dimensions.
3036,regulation of in situ to invasive breast carcinoma transition.,the transition of ductal carcinoma in situ (dcis) to invasive carcinoma is a poorly understood key event in breast tumor progression. here  we analyzed the role of myoepithelial cells and fibroblasts in the progression of in situ carcinomas using a model of human dcis and primary breast tumors. progression to invasion was promoted by fibroblasts and inhibited by normal myoepithelial cells. molecular profiles of isolated luminal epithelial and myoepithelial cells identified an intricate interaction network involving tgfbeta  hedgehog  cell adhesion  and p63 required for myoepithelial cell differentiation  the elimination of which resulted in loss of myoepithelial cells and progression to invasion.
3038,differential requirement for carma1 in agonist-selected t-cell development.,caspase recruitment domain-containing membrane-associated guanylate kinase protein-1 (carma1) is a critical component of the nf-kappab signaling cascade mediated by tcr engagement. in addition to activation of naïve t cells  tcr signaling is important for the development of agonist-selected t-cell subsets such as treg  nkt cells  and cd8-alpha alpha t cells. however  little is known about the role of carma1 in the development of these lineages. here we show that carma1-deficient mice (carma1(-/-)) have altered populations of specific subsets of agonist-selected t cells. specifically  carma1(-/-) mice have impaired natural and adaptive treg development  whereas nkt cell numbers are normal compared with wild-type mice. interestingly  cd8-alpha alpha t cells  which may also be able to develop through an extrathymic selection pathway  are enriched in the gut of carma1(-/-) mice  whereas memory-phenotype cd4(+) t cells (cd62l(low)/cd44(high)) are present at reduced numbers in the periphery. these results indicate that carma1 is essential for treg development  but is not necessary for the development of other agonist-selected t-cell subsets. overall  these data reveal an important but differential role for carma1-mediated tcr signaling in t-cell development.
3040,cloning of rat uncoupling protein-3 and uncoupling protein-2 cdnas: their gene expression in rats fed high-fat diet.,in order to elucidate energy balance in the skeletal muscle  we cloned cdna of a homologue of uncoupling protein (ucp) from rat skeletal muscle. we also cloned rat ucp-2 cdna from rat brown adipose tissue (bat). the ucp cloned from rat skeletal muscle showed 57% and 72% identity with rat ucp-1 and ucp-2. the mrna was expressed abundantly in the skeletal muscle  moderately in the bat  and slightly in the white adipose tissue (wat) with a major band at 2.5 kb and a minor band at 2.8 kb  while the ucp-2 gene expression was widely detected in the whole body with substantial levels in the wat and with slight levels in the skeletal muscle and bat. the rat ucp cloned in the present study showed 86% identity with the recently cloned human ucp-3  which was also expressed abundantly in the skeletal muscle with a signal of 2.4 kb. therefore  the rat ucp was considered to be rat ucp-3. in rats fed high-fat diet the ucp-3 gene expression was augmented 2-fold in the skeletal muscle while ucp-2 mrna levels were increased significantly (1.6-fold) in the epididymal wat. augmented expression of ucps may provide defense against high-fat induced obesity and impairment of glucose metabolism.
3042,cancer stem cell theory in gastrointestinal malignancies: recent progress and upcoming challenges,a growing body of evidence supports the notion that malignant tumors are heterogeneous and contain diverse subpopulations of cells with unique characteristics including the ability to initiate a tumor and metastasize. this phenomenon might be explained by the so-called cancer stem cell (csc) theory. recent technological developments have allowed a deeper understanding and characterization of cscs. even though the application of this theory to hematopoietic malignancies and solid tumors holds promise for new ways to treat cancer  it also brings some skepticism. efficacious therapeutic approaches targeting the csc population should be explored to overcome therapeutic failure and improve patient outcomes. this review will focus on the intrinsic and extrinsic regulation of cscs  as well as the development of therapeutic approaches against cscs  predominantly focusing on gastrointestinal malignancies.
3044,automated genome sequence analysis and annotation.,motivation large-scale genome projects generate a rapidly increasing number of sequences  most of them biochemically uncharacterized. research in bioinformatics contributes to the development of methods for the computational characterization of these sequences. however  the installation and application of these methods require experience and are time consuming. results we present here an automatic system for preliminary functional annotation of protein sequences that has been applied to the analysis of sets of sequences from complete genomes  both to refine overall performance and to make new discoveries comparable to those made by human experts. the genequiz system includes a web-based browser that allows examination of the evidence leading to an automatic annotation and offers additional information  views of the results  and links to biological databases that complement the automatic analysis. system structure and operating principles concerning the use of multiple sequence databases  underlying sequence analysis tools  lexical analyses of database annotations and decision criteria for functional assignments are detailed. the system makes automatic quality assessments of results based on prior experience with the underlying sequence analysis tools; overall error rates in functional assignment are estimated at 2.5-5% for cases annotated with highest reliability ('clear' cases). sources of over-interpretation of results are discussed with proposals for improvement. a conservative definition for reporting 'new findings' that takes account of database maturity is presented along with examples of possible kinds of discoveries (new function  family and superfamily) made by the system. system performance in relation to sequence database coverage  database dynamics and database search methods is analysed  demonstrating the inherent advantages of an integrated automatic approach using multiple databases and search methods applied in an objective and repeatable manner. availability the genequiz system is publicly available for analysis of protein sequences through a web server at http://www.sander.ebi.ac. uk/gqsrv/submit
3046,the transcription factor c-maf controls the production of interleukin-4 but not other th2 cytokines.,il-4 promotes the differentiation of naive cd4+ t cells into il-4-producing t helper 2 (th2) cells. previous work provided suggestive but not conclusive evidence that the transcription factor c-maf directed the tissue-specific expression of il-4. it was not known whether c-maf controlled the transcription of other th2 cytokine genes. to elucidate the role of c-maf in vivo  we examined cytokine production in mice lacking c-maf (c-maf(-/-)). cd4+ t cells and nk t cells from c-maf(-/-) mice were markedly deficient in il-4 production. however  the mice produced normal levels of il-13 and ige  and  when differentiated in the presence of exogenous il-4  c-maf(-/-) t cells produced approximately normal levels of other th2 cytokines. we conclude that c-maf has a critical and selective function in il-4 gene transcription in vivo.
3048,the wuschel-related homeobox gene wox11 is required to activate shoot-borne crown root development in rice.,in rice (oryza sativa)  the shoot-borne crown roots are the major root type and are initiated at lower stem nodes as part of normal plant development. however  the regulatory mechanism of crown root development is poorly understood. in this work  we show that a wuschel-related homeobox (wox) gene  wox11  is involved in the activation of crown root emergence and growth. wox11 was found to be expressed in emerging crown roots and later in cell division regions of the root meristem. the expression could be induced by exogenous auxin or cytokinin. loss-of-function mutation or downregulation of the gene reduced the number and the growth rate of crown roots  whereas overexpression of the gene induced precocious crown root growth and dramatically increased the root biomass by producing crown roots at the upper stem nodes and the base of florets. the expressions of auxin- and cytokinin-responsive genes were affected in wox11 overexpression and rna interference transgenic plants. further analysis showed that wox11 directly repressed rr2  a type-a cytokinin-responsive regulator gene that was found to be expressed in crown root primordia. the results suggest that wox11 may be an integrator of auxin and cytokinin signaling that feeds into rr2 to regulate cell proliferation during crown root development.
3050,reproductive clonality in protozoan pathogens--truth or artefact?,the debate around the frequency and importance of genetic exchange in parasitic protozoa is now several decades old. recently  fresh assertions have been made that predominant clonal evolution explains the population structures of several key protozoan pathogens. here  we present an alternative perspective. on the assumption that much apparent clonality may be an artefact of inadequate sampling and study design  we review current research to define why sex might be so difficult to detect in protozoan parasite populations. in doing so  we contrast laboratory models of genetic exchange in parasitic protozoa with natural patterns of genetic diversity and consider the fitness advantage of sex at different evolutionary scales. we discuss approaches to improve the accuracy of efforts to characterize genetic exchange in the field. we also examine the implications of the first population genomic studies for the debate around sex and clonality in parasitic protozoa and discuss caveats for the future.
3052,findings to date from the ascus-lsil triage study (alts).,controversy exists in the united states regarding the proper evaluation and management of low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion (lsil) and equivocal (atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance [ascus  now asc-us]) cervical cytologic interpretations. to address this issue  the national cancer institute initiated the ascus-lsil triage study (alts). alts is a multicenter  randomized clinical trial designed to evaluate 3 alternative methods of management  namely  immediate colposcopy  cytologic follow-up  and triage by human papillomavirus (hpv) dna testing. this article summarizes the major findings of alts that have been published to date. patients with ascus (n = 3488) or lsil (n = 1572) were randomly assigned to research arms between november 1996 and december 1998  and were monitored for 2 years. the disease outcome was histologic cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin) 3/cancer. the prevalence of oncogenic hpv was too high to permit effective triage of lsil using hpv dna testing by hybrid capture 2. however  for the women referred with a cytologic interpretation of ascus  hpv triage proved useful  with sensitivity equivalent to immediate colposcopy and a halving of colposcopic referrals. among older women with ascus  hpv testing remained sensitive for detecting cin 3 and cancer  but the referral percentage was dramatically lower compared to younger women. alts yielded insight into the performance of cytology and histopathology; experienced pathologists differed significantly in their interpretations of cervical abnormalities  especially histologic cin 1 and cytologic ascus. nonetheless  it was possible to distinguish a relatively uncommon type of ascus  equivocal for high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion  that has a high positive predictive value for identifying women with underlying high-grade cin. many additional analyses are underway.
3054,a randomized  placebo-controlled trial of diindolylmethane for breast cancer biomarker modulation in patients taking tamoxifen,diindolylmethane (dim)  a bioactive metabolite of indole-3-carbinol found in cruciferous vegetables  has proposed cancer chemoprevention activity in the breast. there is limited evidence of clinically relevant activity of dim or long-term safety data of its regular use. a randomized  double-blind  placebo-controlled trial was conducted to determine the activity and safety of combined use of bioresponse dim® (br-dim) with tamoxifen. women prescribed tamoxifen (n = 130) were randomly assigned oral br-dim at 150 mg twice daily or placebo  for 12 months. the primary study endpoint was change in urinary 2/16α-hydroxyestrone (2/16α-ohe1) ratio. changes in 4-hydroxyestrone (4-ohe1)  serum estrogens  sex hormone-binding globulin (shbg)  breast density  and tamoxifen metabolites were assessed. ninety-eight women (51 placebo  47 dim) completed intervention; compliance with treatment was >91%. br-dim increased the 2/16α-ohe1 ratio (+3.2 [0.8  8.4]) compared to placebo (−0.7 [−1.7  0.8]  p < 0.001). serum shbg increased with br-dim compared to placebo (+25 ± 22 and +1.1 ± 19 nmol/l  respectively). no change in breast density measured by mammography or by mri was observed. plasma tamoxifen metabolites (endoxifen  4-oh tamoxifen  and n-desmethyl-tamoxifen) were reduced in women receiving br-dim versus placebo (p < 0.001). minimal adverse events were reported and did not differ by treatment arm. in patients taking tamoxifen for breast cancer  daily br-dim promoted favorable changes in estrogen metabolism and circulating levels of shbg. further research is warranted to determine whether br-dim associated decreases in tamoxifen metabolites  including effects on endoxifen levels  attenuates the clinical benefit of tamoxifen. trial registration: clinicaltrials.gov nct01391689.
3056,biochemical differences in the alphabeta t cell receptor.cd3 surface complex between cd8+ and cd4+ human mature t lymphocytes.,we have reported the existence of biochemical and conformational differences in the alphabeta t cell receptor (tcr) complex between cd4(+) and cd8(+) cd3gamma-deficient (gamma(-)) mature t cells. in the present study  we have furthered our understanding and extended the observations to primary t lymphocytes from normal (gamma(+)) individuals. surface tcr.cd3 components from cd4(+) gamma(-) t cells  other than cd3gamma  were detectable and similar in size to cd4(+) gamma(+) controls. their native tcr.cd3 complex was also similar to cd4(+) gamma(+) controls  except for an alphabeta(deltaepsilon)(2)zeta(2) instead of an alphabetagammaepsilondeltaepsilonzeta(2) stoichiometry. in contrast  the surface tcralpha  tcrbeta  and cd3delta chains of cd8(+) gamma(-) t cells did not possess their usual sizes. using confocal immunofluorescence  tcralpha was hardly detectable in cd8(+) gamma(-) t cells. blue native gels (bn-page) demonstrated the existence of a heterogeneous population of tcr.cd3 in these cells. using primary peripheral blood t lymphocytes from normal (gamma(+)) donors  we performed a broad epitopic scan. in contrast to all other tcr.cd3-specific monoclonal antibodies  rw2-8c8 stained cd8(+) better than it did cd4(+) t cells  and the difference was dependent on glycosylation of the tcr.cd3 complex but independent of t cell activation or differentiation. rw2-8c8 staining of cd8(+) t cells was shown to be more dependent on lipid raft integrity than that of cd4(+) t cells. finally  immunoprecipitation studies on purified primary cd4(+) and cd8(+) t cells revealed the existence of tcr glycosylation differences between the two. collectively  these results are consistent with the existence of conformational or topological lineage-specific differences in the tcr.cd3 from cd4(+) and cd8(+) wild type t cells. the differences may be relevant for cis interactions during antigen recognition and signal transduction.
3058,estrogen receptor-alpha promotes alternative macrophage activation during cutaneous repair.,efficient local monocyte/macrophage recruitment is critical for tissue repair. recruited macrophages are polarized toward classical (proinflammatory) or alternative (prohealing) activation in response to cytokines  with tight temporal regulation crucial for efficient wound repair. estrogen acts as a potent anti-inflammatory regulator of cutaneous healing. however  an understanding of estrogen/estrogen receptor (er) contribution to macrophage polarization and subsequent local effects on wound healing is lacking. here we identify  to our knowledge previously unreported  a role whereby estrogen receptor α (erα) signaling preferentially polarizes macrophages from a range of sources to an alternative phenotype. cell-specific er ablation studies confirm an in vivo role for inflammatory cell erα  but not erβ  in poor healing associated with an altered cytokine profile and fewer alternatively activated macrophages. furthermore  we reveal intrinsic changes in erα-deficient macrophages  which are unable to respond to alternative activation signals in vitro. collectively  our data reveal that inflammatory cell-expressed erα promotes alternative macrophage polarization  which is beneficial for timely healing. given the diverse physiological roles of ers  these findings will likely be of relevance to many pathologies involving excessive inflammation.
3060,an observational study fluid balance and patient outcomes in the randomized evaluation of normal vs. augmented level of replacement therapy trial.,objective to examine associations between mean daily fluid balance during intensive care unit study enrollment and clinical outcomes in patients enrolled in the randomized evaluation of normal vs. augmented level (renal) replacement therapy study. design statistical analysis of data from multicenter  randomized  controlled trials. setting thirty-five intensive care units in australia and new zealand. patients cohort of 1453 patients enrolled in the renal study. interventions we analyzed the association between daily fluid balance on clinical outcomes using multivariable logistic regression  cox proportional hazards  time-dependent analysis  and repeated measure analysis models. measurements and main results during intensive care unit stay  mean daily fluid balance among survivors was -234 ml/day compared with +560 ml/day among nonsurvivors (p < .0001). mean cumulative fluid balance over the same period was -1941 vs. +1755 ml (p = .0003). a negative mean daily fluid balance during study treatment was independently associated with a decreased risk of death at 90 days (odds ratio 0.318; 95% confidence interval 0.24-0.43; p < .000.1) and with increased survival time (p < .0001). in addition  a negative mean daily fluid balance was associated with significantly increased renal replacement-free days (p = .0017)  intensive care unit-free days (p < .0001)  and hospital-free days (p = .01). these findings were unaltered after the application of different statistical models. conclusions in the renal study  a negative mean daily fluid balance was consistently associated with improved clinical outcomes. fluid balance may be a target for specific manipulation in future interventional trials of critically ill patients receiving renal replacement therapy.
3062,a brief history of long-term potentiation,since the discovery of long-term potentiation (ltp) in 1973  thousands of papers have been published on this intriguing phenomenon  which provides a compelling cellular model for learning and memory. although ltp has suffered considerable growing pains over the years  ltp has finally come of age. here the rich history of ltp is reviewed. these are exciting times and the pace of discovery is remarkable.
3064,chaperoning stem cells: a role for heat shock proteins in the modulation of stem cell self-renewal and differentiation?,self-renewal and differentiation of stem cells are tightly regulated processes subject to intrinsic and extrinsic signals. molecular chaperones and co-chaperones  especially heat shock proteins (hsp)  are ubiquitous molecules involved in the modulation of protein conformational and complexation states. the function of hsp  which are typically associated with stress response and tolerance  is well characterized in differentiated cells  while their role in stem cells remains unclear. it appears that embryonic stem cells exhibit increased stress tolerance and concomitant high levels of chaperone expression. this review critically evaluates stem cell research from a molecular chaperone perspective. furthermore  we propose a model of chaperone-modulated self-renewal in mouse embryonic stem cells.
3066,tracking adipogenesis during white adipose tissue development  expansion and regeneration,white adipose tissue displays high plasticity. we developed a system for the inducible  permanent labeling of mature adipocytes that we called the adipochaser mouse. we monitored adipogenesis during development  high-fat diet (hfd) feeding and cold exposure. during cold-induced 'browning' of subcutaneous fat  most 'beige' adipocytes stem from de novo–differentiated adipocytes. during hfd feeding  epididymal fat initiates adipogenesis after 4 weeks  whereas subcutaneous fat undergoes hypertrophy for a period of up to 12 weeks. gonadal fat develops postnatally  whereas subcutaneous fat develops between embryonic days 14 and 18. our results highlight the extensive differences in adipogenic potential in various fat depots.
3068,effects of thiazolidinediones on stroke recovery: a case-matched controlled study,anti-inflammatory therapy decreases infarct size and enhances stroke recovery. thiazolidinedione peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (ppar)gamma agonists have potent anti-inflammatory and insulin-sensitizing anti-diabetic actions. thirty stroke patients with type 2 diabetes admitted for acute inpatient stroke rehabilitation receiving pioglitazone or rosiglitazone were matched for age  sex  initial fimtm score and interval post-stroke with 30 stroke patients with type 2 diabetes not receiving thiazolidinediones. relevant outcome variables were compared for both groups. the thiazolidinedione treated group showed significantly greater mean improvement in fimtm score compared to control group (25.6 ± 10.2 sd vs. 19.8 ± 10.5  respectively  p = 0.015). there was no significant difference in length of rehabilitation hospital stay (24.2 ± 7.6 vs. 25.1 ± 7.4 days  p = 0.657) or final discharge destination (home/institution  19/11 versus 17/13  p = 0.792). use of thiazolidinediones was associated with enhanced functional recovery in stroke patients with type 2 diabetes.
3070,a sequential splicing mechanism promotes selection of an optimal exon by repositioning a downstream 5' splice site in preprotachykinin pre-mrna.,to explore the structural basis of alternative splicing  we have analyzed the splicing of pre-mrnas containing an optional exon  e4  from the preprotachykinin gene. this gene encodes substance p and related tachykinin peptides by alternative splicing of a common pre-mrna. we have shown that alternative splicing of preprotachykinin pre-mrna occurs by preferential skipping of optional e4. the competing mechanism that incorporates e4 into the final spliced rna is constrained by an initial block to splicing of the immediate upstream intervening sequence (ivs)  ivs3. this block is relieved by sequential splicing  in which the immediate downstream ivs4 is removed first. the structural change resulting from the first splicing event is directly responsible for activation of ivs3 splicing. this structural rearrangement replaces ivs4 sequences with e5 and its adjacent ivs5 sequences. to determine how this structural change promoted ivs3 splicing  we asked what structural change(s) would restore activity of ivs3 splicing-defective mutants. the most significant effect was observed by a 2-nucleotide substitution that converted the 5' splice site of e4 to an exact consensus match  guaagu. exon 5 sequences alone were found not to promote splicing when present in one or multiple copies. however  when a 15-nucleotide segment of ivs5 containing guaagu was inserted into a splicing-defective mutant just downstream of the hybrid exon segment e4e5  splicing activity was recovered. curiously  the 72-nucleotide l2 exon of adenovirus  without its associated 5' splice site  activates splicing when juxtaposed to e4. models for the activation of splicing by an rna structural change are discussed.
3072,long-term survival  quality of life  and quality-adjusted life-years among critically ill elderly patients.,objectives to assess mortality  quality of life (qol)  and quality-adjusted life-years (qalys) for critically ill elderly patients. design cross-sectional survey. setting a ten-bed medical-surgical intensive care unit (icu) in a tertiary care university hospital. patients the study group included 882 elderly patients (> or =65 yrs of age) and 1 827 controls (<65 yrs of age) treated during the period of 1995 to 2000. intervention none. measurements and main results mortality was assessed during the icu and hospital stays  and 12  24  and 36 months after icu discharge. the cumulative 3-yr mortality rate among the elderly (57%) was higher (p < .05) than that among the controls (40%). the majority (66%) of the elderly nonsurvivors died within 1 month after intensive care discharge. all elderly patients with day-1 sequential organ failure (sofa) scores >15 died during the icu stay. qol was assessed with eq-5d and rand-36 measures from 10 months to 7 yrs after discharge. the majority (88%) of the elderly survivors assessed their present health state as good or satisfactory; 66% found it to be similar or better than 12 months earlier  and 48% similar or better than their preadmission state. qol measures by rand-36 revealed that aging decreased their competencies most in physical functioning  physical role limitations  and vitality  but the elderly had better values in mental health than the controls. however  qalys of the elderly respondents were 21% to 35% lower than the mean qaly minus 2 sd units of the age- and gender-adjusted general population. conclusions high age alone is not a valid reason to refuse intensive care  but the benefits perceived by intensive care seem to decrease with aging  if reflected as qalys. however  97% of the elderly survivors lived at home and 88% of them considered their qol satisfactory or good after hospital discharge. therefore  more reliable information on the outcome for the elderly is clearly needed.
3074,exploring the epidemiological characteristics of cancers of unknown primary site in an australian population: implications for research and clinical care.,objectives to investigate incidence  mortality and case survival trends for cancer of unknown primary site (cup) and consider clinical implications. method south australian cancer registry data were used to calculate age-standardised incidence and mortality rates from 1977 to 2004. disease-specific survivals  socio-demographic  histological and secular predictors of cup  compared with cancers of known primary site  and of cup histological types  using multivariable logistic regression were investigated. results incidence and mortality rates increased approximately 60% between 1977--80 and 1981--84. rates peaked in 1993--96. male to female incidence and mortality rate ratios approximated 1.3:1. incidence and mortality rates increased with age. the odds of unspecified histological type  compared with the more common adenocarcinomas  were higher for males than females  non-metropolitan residents  low socio-economic areas  and for 1977--88 than subsequent diagnostic periods. cup represented a higher proportion of cancers in indigenous patients. case survival was 7% at 10 years from diagnosis. factors predictive of lower case survival included older age  male sex  indigenous status  lower socio-economic status  and unspecified histology type. conclusion results point to poor cup outcomes  but with a modest improvement in survival. the study identifies socio-demographic groups at elevated risk of cup and of worse treatment outcomes where increased research and clinical attention are required.
3076,influence of cigarette smoking on inhaled corticosteroid treatment in mild asthma.,background although inhaled corticosteroids have an established role in the treatment of asthma  studies have tended to concentrate on non-smokers and little is known about the possible effect of cigarette smoking on the efficacy of treatment with inhaled steroids in asthma. a study was undertaken to investigate the effect of active cigarette smoking on responses to treatment with inhaled corticosteroids in patients with mild asthma. methods the effect of treatment with inhaled fluticasone propionate (1000 microg daily) or placebo for 3 weeks was studied in a double blind  prospective  randomised  placebo controlled study of 38 steroid naïve adult asthmatic patients (21 non-smokers). efficacy was assessed using morning and evening peak expiratory flow (pef) readings  spirometric parameters  bronchial hyperreactivity  and sputum eosinophil counts. comparison was made between responses to treatment in non-smoking and smoking asthmatic patients. results there was a significantly greater increase in mean morning pef in non-smokers than in smokers following inhaled fluticasone (27 l/min v -5 l/min). non-smokers had a statistically significant increase in mean morning pef (27 l/min)  mean forced expiratory volume in 1 second (0.17 l)  and geometric mean pc20 (2.6 doubling doses)  and a significant decrease in the proportion of sputum eosinophils (-1.75%) after fluticasone compared with placebo. no significant changes were observed in the smoking asthmatic patients for any of these parameters. conclusions active cigarette smoking impairs the efficacy of short term inhaled corticosteroid treatment in mild asthma. this finding has important implications for the management of patients with mild asthma who smoke.
3078,histone phosphorylation: a chromatin modification involved in diverse nuclear events.,histone posttranslational modifications are key components of diverse processes that modulate chromatin structure. these marks function as signals during various chromatin-based events  and act as platforms for recruitment  assembly or retention of chromatin-associated factors. the best-known function of histone phosphorylation takes place during cellular response to dna damage  when phosphorylated histone h2a(x) demarcates large chromatin domains around the site of dna breakage. however  multiple studies have also shown that histone phosphorylation plays crucial roles in chromatin remodeling linked to other nuclear processes. in this review  we summarize the current knowledge of histone phosphorylation and describe the many kinases and phosphatases that regulate it. we discuss the key roles played by this histone mark in dna repair  transcription and chromatin compaction during cell division and apoptosis. additionally  we describe the intricate crosstalk that occurs between phosphorylation and other histone modifications and allows for sophisticated control over the chromatin remodeling processes.
3080,prognostic impact of minimal pleural effusion in non-small-cell lung cancer.,purpose minimal (< 10 mm thick) pleural effusion (pe) may represent an early phase of malignant pe  but its clinical relevance has rarely been studied. therefore  we examined the proportion of minimal pe in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer (nsclc) and its impact on survival. we also considered possible accumulation mechanisms in our data set. patients and methods on the basis of pe status from chest computed tomography scans at diagnosis  2 061 patients were classified into three groups: no pe  minimal pe  and malignant pe. twenty-one variables associated with four factors-patient  stage migration  tumor  and treatment-were investigated for correlation with survival. results minimal pe presented in 272 patients (13.2%). of 2 061 patients  the proportion of each stage was the following: 5.2% stage i  10.9% stage ii  13.2% stage iiia  23.8% stage iiib  and 13.9% stage iv. minimal pe correlated significantly with shorter survival time than did no pe (median survival time  7.7 v 17.7 months; log-rank p < .001)  even after full adjustment with all variables (adjusted hazard ratio  1.40; 95% ci  1.21 to 1.62). prognostic impact of minimal pe was higher in early versus advanced stages (pinteraction = .001). in 237 patients (87.8%) with minimal pe  pleural invasion or attachment as a direct mechanism was observed  and it was an independent factor predicting worse survival (p = .03). conclusion minimal pe is a commonly encountered clinical concern in staging nsclcs. its presence is an important prognostic factor of worse survival  especially in early-stage disease.
3082,a sequential model for peptide binding and transport by the transporters associated with antigen processing.,the tap proteins translocate antigenic peptides into the endoplasmic reticulum. investigation of the specificity of this process has been complicated by tap-independent factors that influence the amount of peptide that accumulates in the er in transport assays. we have developed an overexpression system in which binding of peptides to the tap substrate-binding site and peptide transport by tap can be quantified separately. efficiency of peptide accumulation in the er parallels affinity for the tap substrate-binding site  but can be modified by interaction with the glycosylation system within the er and  probably  peptide efflux. random peptide mixtures of 9-16 aa display significantly higher affinity for the binding site than mixtures of shorter or longer peptides. peptide binds to tap heteromers in the absence of atp and is released by the binding of atp  suggesting a model for tap function.
3084,human cyp3a4 and murine cyp3a11 are regulated by equol and genistein via the pregnane x receptor in a species-specific manner.,pregnane x receptor (pxr) is an important component of the body's adaptive defense system responsible for the elimination of various toxic xenobiotics. pxr activation by endogenous and exogenous chemicals  including steroids  antibiotics  bile acids  and herbal compounds  results in induction of drug metabolism. we investigated the ability of the isoflavones genistein  daidzein  and the daidzein metabolite equol to activate human and mouse pxr in vitro using cell-based transient transfection studies and primary hepatocytes and in vivo in a mouse model. in transient transfection assays  the isoflavones genistein and daidzein activate full-length  wild-type mouse pxr  but not a mutant form  with genistein being the most potent. in contrast  equol was a more potent activator of human pxr than genistein or daidzein. in a mammalian 2-hybrid assay  isoflavones induced recruitment of the coactivator steroid receptor coactivator 1 to pxr. when tested against the native human cytochrome p450 3a4 (cyp3a4) promoter  equol was the more potent activator and treatment of human hepatocytes with equol increased cyp3a4 mrna and immunoreactive protein expression. treatment of wild-type  but not pxr(-/-)  mouse hepatocytes showed that genistein and daidzein induced the expression of cytochrome p450 3a11 (cyp3a11) mrna  whereas equol had no effect. cyp3a11 mrna was also induced in vivo in mice fed a soy protein-containing diet. the results presented herein demonstrate that there is a species-specific difference in the activation of pxr by isoflavones and equol.
3086,tgf-beta inhibition of endothelial cell proliferation: alteration of egf binding and egf-induced growth-regulatory (competence) gene expression.,transforming growth factor-beta (tgf-beta) inhibits the growth of endothelial cells derived from various sources  including human umbilical vein  bovine aorta  and rat heart. long-term exposure of rat heart endothelial cells to tgf-beta also induces dramatic changes in morphology that are characteristic of senescent cells. these changes are accompanied by a decrease in the number of high-affinity receptors for epidermal growth factor (egf)  with almost no change in total receptor number. additionally  the egf-induced expression of specific competence genes (c-myc  je  kc) is decreased  whereas the induction of c-fos gene expression by egf is unaltered by tgf-beta treatment. these data suggest that growth inhibitors such as tgf-beta may act by altering the cell's response to growth-stimulatory factors.
3088,production of interleukin-6 in contracting human skeletal muscles can account for the exercise-induced increase in plasma interleukin-6.,1. plasma interleukin (il)-6 concentration is increased with exercise and it has been demonstrated that contracting muscles can produce il-the question addressed in the present study was whether the il-6 production by contracting skeletal muscle is of such a magnitude that it can account for the il-6 accumulating in the blood. 2. this was studied in six healthy males  who performed one-legged dynamic knee extensor exercise for 5 h at 25 w  which represented 40% of peak power output (wmax). arterial-femoral venous (a-fv) differences over the exercising and the resting leg were obtained before and every hour during the exercise. leg blood flow was measured in parallel by the ultrasound doppler technique. il-6 was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (elisa). 3. arterial plasma concentrations for il-6 increased 19-fold compared to rest. the a-fv difference for il-6 over the exercising leg followed the same pattern as did the net il-6 release. over the resting leg  there was no significant a-fv difference or net il-6 release. the work was produced by 2.5 kg of active muscle  which means that during the last 2 h of exercise  the median il-6 production was 6.8 ng min-1 (kg active muscle)-1 (range  3.96-9.69 ng min-1 kg-1). 4. the net il-6 release from the muscle over the last 2 h of exercise was 17-fold higher than the elevation in arterial il-6 concentration and at 5 h of exercise the net release during 1 min was half of the il-6 content in the plasma. this indicates a very high turnover of il-6 during muscular exercise. we suggest that il-6 produced by skeletal contracting muscle contributes to the maintenance of glucose homeostasis during prolonged exercise.
3090,comparative protein structure modeling using modeller.,comparative protein structure modeling predicts the three-dimensional structure of a given protein sequence (target) based primarily on its alignment to one or more proteins of known structure (templates). the prediction process consists of fold assignment  target-template alignment  model building  and model evaluation. this unit describes how to calculate comparative models using the program modeller and how to use the modbase database of such models  and discusses all four steps of comparative modeling  frequently observed errors  and some applications. modeling lactate dehydrogenase from trichomonas vaginalis (tvldh) is described as an example. the download and installation of the modeller software is also described. © 2016 by john wiley & sons  inc.
3092,chaperoning 5s rna assembly.,in eukaryotes  three of the four ribosomal rnas (rrnas)—the 5.8s  18s  and 25s/28s rrnas—are processed from a single pre-rrna transcript and assembled into ribosomes. the fourth rrna  the 5s rrna  is transcribed by rna polymerase iii and is assembled into the 5s ribonucleoprotein particle (rnp)  containing ribosomal proteins rpl5/ul18 and rpl11/ul5  prior to its incorporation into preribosomes. in mammals  the 5s rnp is also a central regulator of the homeostasis of the tumor suppressor p53. the nucleolar localization of the 5s rnp and its assembly into preribosomes are performed by a specialized complex composed of rpf2 and rrs1 in yeast or bxdc1 and hrrs1 in humans. here we report the structural and functional characterization of the rpf2-rrs1 complex alone  in complex with the 5s rna  and within pre-60s ribosomes. we show that the rpf2-rrs1 complex contains a specialized 5s rna e-loop-binding module  contacts the rpl5 protein  and also contacts the ribosome assembly factor rsa4 and the 25s rna. we propose that the rpf2-rrs1 complex establishes a network of interactions that guide the incorporation of the 5s rnp in preribosomes in the initial conformation prior to its rotation to form the central protuberance found in the mature large ribosomal subunit.
3094,non-receptor tyrosine kinase etk is involved in the apoptosis of small cell lung cancer cells.,epithelial and endothelial tyrosine kinase (etk)  also known as bmx (bone marrow x kinase) plays an important role in apoptosis of epithelial cells. the goal of this study was to investigate whether etk is involved in apoptosis of small cell lung cancer (sclc) cells and correlated with the expression levels of apoptosis-associated proteins such as bcl-2  bcl-x(l) and p53. one hundred and seventy-one cases of lung cancer specimens including seventy-one sclcs and one hundred nsclcs were immunostained for etk  bcl-2  bcl-x(l) and p53. parental sclc h446 cell line  and its subline (h446-etk) that overexpresses etk  were used to study the role of etk in apoptosis induced by doxorubicin. it was found that high expression of etk occurs in 74.6% of sclc cases  but only in 40% of nsclc cases  and there is marked difference in the expression levels of bcl-2  bcl-x(l) and p53 between etk-positive and etk-negative sclc cases. furthermore  the levels of bcl-2 and bcl-x(l) significantly increased in h446-etk cells than that in h446 cells after doxorubicin treatment  and were positively associated with etk expression. however  p53 did not correspond with etk expression although its expression decreased greatly with apoptosis both in h446-etk and h446 cells. after doxorubicin treatment  the cell viability was significantly higher in h446-etk cells than in parental h446 cells. downregulation of etk by etk sirna sensitized h446 cells to doxorubicin. our results indicate that upregulation of tyrosine kinase etk may be a new mechanism involved in protection of sclc cells from apoptosis. bcl-2 and bcl-x(l) but not p53 may contribute to doxorubicin-induced apoptosis through etk pathway.
3096,the effectiveness of right heart catheterization in the initial care of critically ill patients. support investigators.,objective to examine the association between the use of right heart catheterization (rhc) during the first 24 hours of care in the intensive care unit (icu) and subsequent survival  length of stay  intensity of care  and cost of care. design prospective cohort study. setting five us teaching hospitals between 1989 and 1994. subjects a total of 5735 critically ill adult patients receiving care in an icu for 1 of 9 prespecified disease categories. main outcome measures survival time  cost of care  intensity of care  and length of stay in the icu and hospital  determined from the clinical record and from the national death index. a propensity score for rhc was constructed using multivariable logistic regression. case-matching and multivariable regression modeling techniques were used to estimate the association of rhc with specific outcomes after adjusting for treatment selection using the propensity score. sensitivity analysis was used to estimate the potential effect of an unidentified or missing covariate on the results. results by case-matching analysis  patients with rhc had an increased 30-day mortality (odds ratio  1.24; 95% confidence interval  1.03-1.49). the mean cost (25th  50th  75th percentiles) per hospital stay was $49 300 ($17 000  $30 500  $56 600) with rhc and $35 700 ($11 300  $20 600  $39 200) without rhc. mean length of stay in the icu was 14.8 (5  9  17) days with rhc and 13.0 (4  7  14) days without rhc. these findings were all confirmed by multivariable modeling techniques. subgroup analysis did not reveal any patient group or site for which rhc was associated with improved outcomes. patients with higher baseline probability of surviving 2 months had the highest relative risk of death following rhc. sensitivity analysis suggested that a missing covariate would have to increase the risk of death 6-fold and the risk of rhc 6-fold for a true beneficial effect of rhc to be misrepresented as harmful. conclusion in this observational study of critically ill patients  after adjustment for treatment selection bias  rhc was associated with increased mortality and increased utilization of resources. the cause of this apparent lack of benefit is unclear. the results of this analysis should be confirmed in other observational studies. these findings justify reconsideration of a randomized controlled trial of rhc and may guide patient selection for such a study.
3098,hierarchical organization of the plasma membrane: investigations by single-molecule tracking vs. fluorescence correlation spectroscopy.,single-molecule tracking and fluorescence correlation spectroscopy (fcs) applied to the plasma membrane in living cells have allowed a number of unprecedented observations  thus fostering a new basic understanding of molecular diffusion  interaction  and signal transduction in the plasma membrane. it is becoming clear that the plasma membrane is a heterogeneous entity  containing diverse structures on nano-meso-scales (2-200 nm) with a variety of lifetimes  where certain membrane molecules stay together for limited durations. molecular interactions occur in the time-dependent inhomogeneous two-dimensional liquid of the plasma membrane  which might be a key for plasma membrane functions.
3100,modulation of anxiety through blockade of anandamide hydrolysis,the psychoactive constituent of cannabis  δ9-tetrahydrocannabinol  produces in humans subjective responses mediated by cb1 cannabinoid receptors  indicating that endogenous cannabinoids may contribute to the control of emotion. but the variable effects of δ9-tetrahydrocannabinol obscure the interpretation of these results and limit the therapeutic potential of direct cannabinoid agonists. an alternative approach may be to develop drugs that amplify the effects of endogenous cannabinoids by preventing their inactivation. here we describe a class of potent  selective and systemically active inhibitors of fatty acid amide hydrolase  the enzyme responsible for the degradation of the endogenous cannabinoid anandamide. like clinically used anti-anxiety drugs  in rats the inhibitors exhibit benzodiazepine-like properties in the elevated zero-maze test and suppress isolation-induced vocalizations. these effects are accompanied by augmented brain levels of anandamide and are prevented by cb1 receptor blockade. our results indicate that anandamide participates in the modulation of emotional states and point to fatty acid amide hydrolase inhibition as an innovative approach to anti-anxiety therapy.
3102,histone chaperones: 30 years from isolation to elucidation of the mechanisms of nucleosome assembly and disassembly,some three decades have passed since the discovery of nucleosomes in 1974 and the first isolation of a histone chaperone in 1978. while various types of histone chaperones have been isolated and functionally analyzed  the elementary processes of nucleosome assembly and disassembly have been less well characterized. recently  the tertiary structure of a hetero-trimeric complex composed of the histone chaperone cia/asf1 and the histone h3-h4 dimer was determined  and this complex was proposed to be an intermediate in nucleosome assembly and disassembly reactions. in addition  cia alone was biochemically shown to dissociate the histone (h3-h4)2 tetramer into two histone h3-h4 dimers. this activity suggested that cia regulates the semi-conservative replication of nucleosomes. here  we provide an overview of prominent histone chaperones with the goal of elucidating the mechanisms that preserve and modify epigenetic information. we also discuss the reactions involved in nucleosome assembly and disassembly.
3104,gut-expressed gustducin and taste receptors regulate secretion of glucagon-like peptide-1.,glucagon-like peptide-1 (glp-1)  released from gut endocrine l cells in response to glucose  regulates appetite  insulin secretion  and gut motility. how glucose given orally  but not systemically  induces glp-1 secretion is unknown. we show that human duodenal l cells express sweet taste receptors  the taste g protein gustducin  and several other taste transduction elements. mouse intestinal l cells also express alpha-gustducin. ingestion of glucose by alpha-gustducin null mice revealed deficiencies in secretion of glp-1 and the regulation of plasma insulin and glucose. isolated small bowel and intestinal villi from alpha-gustducin null mice showed markedly defective glp-1 secretion in response to glucose. the human l cell line nci-h716 expresses alpha-gustducin  taste receptors  and several other taste signaling elements. glp-1 release from nci-h716 cells was promoted by sugars and the noncaloric sweetener sucralose  and blocked by the sweet receptor antagonist lactisole or sirna for alpha-gustducin. we conclude that l cells of the gut "taste" glucose through the same mechanisms used by taste cells of the tongue. modulating glp-1 secretion in gut "taste cells" may provide an important treatment for obesity  diabetes and abnormal gut motility.
3106,dietary flavonoids: bioavailability  metabolic effects  and safety.,flavonoids comprise the most common group of plant polyphenols and provide much of the flavor and color to fruits and vegetables. more than 5000 different flavonoids have been described. the six major subclasses of flavonoids include the flavones (e.g.  apigenin  luteolin)  flavonols (e.g.  quercetin  myricetin)  flavanones (e.g.  naringenin  hesperidin)  catechins or flavanols (e.g.  epicatechin  gallocatechin)  anthocyanidins (e.g.  cyanidin  pelargonidin)  and isoflavones (e.g.  genistein  daidzein). most of the flavonoids present in plants are attached to sugars (glycosides)  although occasionally they are found as aglycones. interest in the possible health benefits of flavonoids has increased owing to their potent antioxidant and free-radical scavenging activities observed in vitro. there is growing evidence from human feeding studies that the absorption and bioavailability of specific flavonoids is much higher than originally believed. however  epidemiologic studies exploring the role of flavonoids in human health have been inconclusive. some studies support a protective effect of flavonoid consumption in cardiovascular disease and cancer  other studies demonstrate no effect  and a few studies suggest potential harm. because there are many biological activities attributed to the flavonoids  some of which could be beneficial or detrimental depending on specific circumstances  further studies in both the laboratory and with populations are warranted.
3108,trichome birefringence and its homolog at5g01360 encode plant-specific duf231 proteins required for cellulose biosynthesis in arabidopsis.,the arabidopsis (arabidopsis thaliana) trichome birefringence (tbr) mutant has severely reduced crystalline cellulose in trichomes  but the molecular nature of tbr was unknown. we determined tbr to belong to the plant-specific duf231 domain gene family comprising 46 members of unknown function in arabidopsis. the genes harbor another plant-specific domain  called the tbl domain  which contains a conserved gdsl motif known from some esterases/lipases. tbr and tbr-like3 (tbl3) are transcriptionally coordinated with primary and secondary cellulose synthase (cesa) genes  respectively. the tbr and tbl3 mutants hold lower levels of crystalline cellulose and have altered pectin composition in trichomes and stems  respectively  tissues generally thought to contain mainly secondary wall crystalline cellulose. in contrast  primary wall cellulose levels remain unchanged in both mutants as measured in etiolated tbr and tbl3 hypocotyls  while the amount of esterified pectins is reduced and pectin methylesterase activity is increased in this tissue. furthermore  etiolated tbr hypocotyls have reduced length with swollen epidermal cells  a phenotype characteristic for primary cesa mutants or the wild type treated with cellulose synthesis inhibitors. taken together  we show that two tbl genes contribute to the synthesis and deposition of secondary wall cellulose  presumably by influencing the esterification state of pectic polymers.
3110,preoperative c-reactive protein predicts mid-term outcome after cardiac surgery.,background c-reactive protein (crp) is a known risk factor for cardiovascular events in the healthy population and in patients with coronary artery disease. high crp levels before cardiac surgery are associated with worse short-term outcome  but its role after discharge home remains unknown. the study objective was to evaluate the effect of crp on short-term and mid-term outcome after cardiac surgery. methods from august 2000 to may 2004  values for preoperative crp were available for 597 unselected patients undergoing cardiac operations. crp was used to divide this cohort in two groups: a low inflammatory status (lhs) group of 354 patients with crp of less than 0.5 mg/dl  and a high inflammatory status (his) group of 243 patients with a crp of 0.5 mg/dl or more. follow-up lasted a maximum of 3 years (median  1.8 +/- 1.5 years) and was 92.6% complete. results in-hospital mortality was 8.2% in the his group and 3.4% in the lis group (odds ratio [or]  2.61; p = 0.02). incidence of postoperative infections was 16.5% in the his group and 5.1% in the lis group (or  3.25; p = 0.0001). sternal wound infections were also more frequent in the his group (10.7% versus 2.8%; or  3.43; p = 0.002). during follow-up  the his group had worse survival (88.5% +/- 2.9% versus 91.9% +/- 2.5%; or  1.93; p = 0.05) and a higher need of hospitalization for cardiac-related causes (73.6% +/- 6% versus 86.5% +/- 3.2%; or  1.82; p = 0.05). conclusions patients undergoing cardiac surgery with a crp level of 0.5 mg/dl or more are exposed to a higher risk of in-hospital mortality and postoperative infections. despite surgical correction of cardiac disease  a high preoperative crp value is an independent risk factor for mid-term survival and hospitalization for cardiac causes.
3112,mutant sod1 inhibits er-golgi transport in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.,cu/zn-superoxide dismutase is misfolded in familial and sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis  but it is not clear how this triggers endoplasmic reticulum (er) stress or other pathogenic processes. here  we demonstrate that mutant sod1 (msod1) is predominantly found in the cytoplasm in neuronal cells. furthermore  we show that msod1 inhibits secretory protein transport from the er to golgi apparatus. er-golgi transport is linked to er stress  golgi fragmentation and axonal transport and we also show that inhibition of er-golgi trafficking preceded er stress  golgi fragmentation  protein aggregation and apoptosis in cells expressing msod1. restoration of er-golgi transport by over-expression of coatomer coat protein ii subunit sar1 protected against inclusion formation and apoptosis  thus linking dysfunction in er-golgi transport to cellular pathology. these findings thus link several cellular events in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis into a single mechanism occurring early in msod1 expressing cells.
3114,functional analysis of repressor binding sites in the iab-2 regulatory region of the abdominal-a homeotic gene.,spatial boundaries of homeotic gene expression are initiated and maintained by two sets of transcriptional repressors: the gap gene products and the polycomb group proteins. previously  the hunchback (hb) protein has been implicated in setting the anterior expression limit of the ubx homeotic protein in parasegment 6. here we investigate dna elements and trans-acting repressors that control spatial expression of the abdominal-a (abd-a) homeotic protein. analysis of a 1.7-kb enhancer element [iab-2(1.7)] from the iab-2 regulatory region shows that in contrast to ubx enhancer elements  both hb and krüppel (kr) are required to set the abd-a anterior boundary in parasegment 7. dnase i footprinting and site-directed mutagenesis show that hb and kr are direct regulators of this iab-2 enhancer. the single kr site can be moved to a new location 100 bp away and still maintain repressive activity  whereas relocation by 300 bp abolishes activity. these results suggest that kr repression occurs through a local quenching mechanism. we also show that the gap repressor giant (gt) initially establishes a posterior expression limit at ps9  which shifts posteriorly after the blastoderm stage. finally  we show that this iab-2 enhancer contains multiple binding sites for the polycomb group protein pleiohomeotic (pho). these iab-2 pho sites are required in vivo for chromosome pairing-dependent repression of a mini-white reporter. however  the pho sites are not sufficient to maintain repression of a homeotic reporter gene anterior to ps7. full maintenance at late embryonic stages requires additional sequences adjacent to the iab-2(1.7) enhancer.
3116,unmarked gene deletion and host–vector system for the hyperthermophilic crenarchaeon sulfolobus islandicus,sulfolobus islandicus is being used as a model for studying archaeal biology  geo-biology and evolution. however  no genetic system is available for this organism. to produce an s. islandicus mutant suitable for genetic analyses  we screened for colonies with a spontaneous pyref mutation. one mutant was obtained containing only 233 bp of the original pyre sequence in the mutant allele and it was used as a host to delete the β-glycosidase (lacs) gene. two unmarked gene deletion methods were employed  namely plasmid integration and segregation  and marker replacement and looping out  and unmarked lacs mutants were obtained by each method. a new alternative recombination mechanism  i.e.  marker circularization and integration  was shown to operate in the latter method  which did not yield the designed deletion mutation. subsequently  sulfolobus–e. coli plasmid shuttle vectors were constructed  which genetically complemented δpyrefδlacs mutation after transformation. thus  a complete set of genetic tools was established for s. islandicus with pyref and lacs as genetic markers.
3118,clinical epidemiology of heart failure.,the aim of this paper is to review the clinical epidemiology of heart failure. the last paper comprehensively addressing the epidemiology of heart failure in heart appeared in 2000. despite an increase in manuscripts describing epidemiological aspects of heart failure since the 1990s  additional information is still needed  as indicated by various editorials.
3120,depletion of glutathione induces 4-hydroxynonenal protein adducts and hydroxyurea teratogenicity in the organogenesis stage mouse embryo.,glutathione (gsh) homeostasis is important during organogenesis. to elucidate the impact of gsh depletion in organogenesis stage embryos on oxidative stress and drug teratogenicity  l-buthionine-s r-sulfoximine (bso) was given to timed pregnant cd-1 mice 4 h before exposure to a model teratogen  hydroxyurea (hu) [400 mg/kg (hu-400) or 600 mg/kg (hu-600)]. treatment with bso or hu alone or with bso plus hu-400 did not alter the ratios of glutathione disulfide/gsh in the embryo; in contrast  the combination of bso plus hu-600 did increase this ratio at both 0.5 and 3 h post-hu  indicating the induction of oxidative stress in the embryos. immunoreactivity to a product of lipid peroxidation  4-hydroxynonenal (4-hne) protein adducts  was detected in saline-treated embryos; the intensity and nuclear localization of 4-hne protein adduct immunoreactivity in specific regions in the embryo was significantly increased by exposure to bso alone or bso and either dose of hu. bso pretreatment increased the spectrum and incidence of external and skeletal malformations (curly tail  hind limb malformations  hydrocephaly  exencephaly  open eye  spina bifida  and gastroschisis) induced by hu-400 and hu-600; bso exposure did not alter the effects of hu on fetal mortality or fetal weights or hu induction of c-fos heterodimer-dependent activator protein 1 dna binding activity. the formation of 4-hne protein adducts in teratogen-exposed embryos was localized to regions of the embryo that were highly susceptible to insult  namely the somites and caudal neural tube  correlating the presence of 4-hne adducts with the disruption of pattern formation during organogenesis.
3122,imported malaria in children: a national surveillance in the netherlands and a review of european studies.,background falciparum malaria or malaria tropica is one of the leading causes of childhood mortality worldwide. malaria-related deaths occur mainly in sub-saharan africa  where an estimated 365 million clinical cases of plasmodium falciparum malaria occur each year. in europe  imported malaria cases occur due to returning travellers or immigration mostly from african countries. children are more at risk than adults. the objective of this study was to identify high risk groups for imported childhood malaria in europe in order to guide development of strategies for prevention  early recognition and management. methods in the period may 2003-january 2005 we reviewed all cases of paediatric malaria in the netherlands notified by the dutch paediatric surveillance system (nederland signalerings centrum kindergeneeskunde  nsck) and the literature on imported malaria in children in europe published between 1996 and 2006. results malaria occurred mainly in children of long-term (n = 15  47%) and new (n = 8  25%) immigrants and was mostly acquired in sub-saharan africa. the dominant species was p. falciparum. only one quarter of children had used adequate malaria chemoprophylaxis. complicated disease occurred in 10 (31%) of cases. we also reviewed the literature and found 6082 reported cases of imported malaria among children in europe; among these  four died and only one was reported to develop neurological sequelae. conclusion imported malaria in children remains an important problem and is unlikely to decrease unless the reasons for inadequate prophylaxis are addressed.
3124,overall and cancer related mortality among patients with ocular inflammation treated with immunosuppressive drugs: retrospective cohort study.,context whether immunosuppressive treatment adversely affects survival is unclear. objective to assess whether immunosuppressive drugs increase mortality. design retrospective cohort study evaluating overall and cancer mortality in relation to immunosuppressive drug exposure among patients with ocular inflammatory diseases. demographic  clinical  and treatment data derived from medical records  and mortality results from united states national death index linkage. the cohort's mortality risk was compared with us vital statistics using standardised mortality ratios. overall and cancer mortality in relation to use or non-use of immunosuppressive drugs within the cohort was studied with survival analysis. setting five tertiary ocular inflammation clinics. patients 7957 us residents with non-infectious ocular inflammation  2340 of whom received immunosuppressive drugs during follow up. exposures use of antimetabolites  t cell inhibitors  alkylating agents  and tumour necrosis factor inhibitors. main outcome measures overall mortality  cancer mortality. results over 66 802 person years (17 316 after exposure to immunosuppressive drugs)  936 patients died (1.4/100 person years)  230 (24.6%) from cancer. for patients unexposed to immunosuppressive treatment  risks of death overall (standardised mortality ratio 1.02  95% confidence interval [ci] 0.94 to 1.11) and from cancer (1.10  0.93 to 1.29) were similar to those of the us population. patients who used azathioprine  methotrexate  mycophenolate mofetil  ciclosporin  systemic corticosteroids  or dapsone had overall and cancer mortality similar to that of patients who never took immunosuppressive drugs. in patients who used cyclophosphamide  overall mortality was not increased and cancer mortality was non-significantly increased. tumour necrosis factor inhibitors were associated with increased overall (adjusted hazard ratio [hr] 1.99  95% ci 1.00 to 3.98) and cancer mortality (adjusted hr 3.83  1.13 to 13.01). conclusions most commonly used immunosuppressive drugs do not seem to increase overall or cancer mortality. our results suggesting that tumour necrosis factor inhibitors might increase mortality are less robust than the other findings; additional evidence is needed.
3126,molecular profiling and predictive value of circulating tumor cells in patients with metastatic breast cancer: an option for monitoring response to breast cancer related therapies,purpose we analyzed circulating tumor cells (ctc) in blood of metastatic breast cancer patients (n = 42) and determined the ability of this method to predict therapy response. methods ctc from blood were analyzed before and during therapy for epcam  muc1 and her2 transcripts with the adnatest breastcancer. the estrogen (er) and progesterone (pr) receptor expression was assessed by rt-pcr. results the overall detection rate for ctc was 52% (thereof 86% epcam; 86% muc1; 32% her2; 35% er; 12% pr). ctc were er  pr and her2 negative in 45% (er)  78% (pr) and 60% (her-2) of patients with steroid receptor-positive tumors. 29% of patients with her2-negative tumors had her2-positive ctc. the test predicted therapy response in 78% of all cases. persistence of ctc significantly correlated with shorter overall survival (p = 0.005). conclusions molecular profiling of ctc may offer superior prognostic information with regard to risk assessment for recurrence and predictive judgement of therapeutical regimens.
3128,evaluation of the association between the first observation and the longitudinal change in c-reactive protein  and all-cause mortality.,objective to evaluate the association between vascular inflammation as measured by subacute c-reactive protein (crp; 1-10 mg/l) and all-cause mortality and the association between change in crp status (normal <or=3 mg/l and elevated >3 mg/l) and all-cause mortality. methods probabilistic record linkage was used to match hospital episode data  laboratory reports and mortality statistics in a large urban population. survival was evaluated using cox proportional hazards regression models. results 22 962 patients had their first crp measurement in the subacute range (1-10 mg/l). analysis grouped by each additional unit increase in crp across the subacute range was associated with a 7.3% (95% ci 5.4% to 9.2%) increase in the hazard ratio (hr) of death over 4 years  after controlling for confounding factors (p<0.001). repeated crp observations around 1 year apart were recorded in 5811 subjects. after controlling for confounding factors  in patients whose crp changed from normal (<or=3 mg/l) to elevated (>3 mg/l)  the hr increased 6.7-fold (p<0.001) relative to cases whose crp remained normal. by comparison  among those subjects whose crp was reduced from elevated to normal  the hazard ratio halved to 3.5 (p = 0.018). in an underpowered analysis of time to cardiovascular events  an identical pattern of risk emerged. conclusions crp level predicted all-cause mortality  and additional inclusion of prior change in crp level and current crp level more so. increasing vascular inflammation  as measured by crp  increases the likelihood of death.
3130,modification of the constant-murley shoulder score-introduction of the individual relative constant score individual shoulder assessment.,the constant-murley shoulder assessment score has proven to be a valuable diagnostic instrument. thus  in the literature it has been mentioned that the clinical accuracy of this score varies especially when comparing patients in larger  inhomogeneous patient groups. the "relative constant score" (cs(rel)) tries to minimize these problems by using reference parameters out of healthy age and gender related control groups. the authors of this study tried to show that it is even more accurate to use the functional performance of the uninjured collateral shoulder of the same individual as reference  introducing the "individual relative constant score" (cs(indiv)). the cs(indiv) and the cs(rel) were compared for 125 consecutive patients with shoulder disorders  and a group of 125 healthy volunteers as a control group. in a non-parametric comparison of the reciever operating characteristics the cs(indiv) shows the higher ability to discriminate between patients and healthy volunteers (p=0.004). this indicates that the individual relative constant score gives a more accurate view about the functional result for shoulder disorders. it is expected to be more reliable for larger and incoherent patient populations  because specific interindividual differences  regarding the patient's age  gender and constitution are eliminated as well as other individual physiological parameters.
3132,down-regulation of keratin 4 and keratin 13 expression in oral squamous cell carcinoma and epithelial dysplasia: a clue for histopathogenesis.,aims this study aimed to identify relevant keratin subtypes that may associate with the pathogenesis of oral epithelial neoplasms. methods and results expression of all the keratin subtypes was examined by cdna microarray analysis of 43 oral squamous cell carcinoma (oscc) cases. immunohistochemical expression of the major keratins was examined in 100 oscc and oral epithelial dysplasia (oed) cases. many changes in keratin expression were observed and  significantly  consistent down-regulation of keratin 4 (k4) and k13 expression was observed. aberrant expression of k4 and k13 was associated with morphological changes in the affected oral epithelium. experiments with cell cultures transfected with various keratin subtypes suggested that alterations in keratin subtype expression can cause changes in cell shape and movement. conclusions aberrant expression of k4 and k13  which are the dominant pair of differentiation-related keratins in oral keratinocytes  indicates dysregulation of epithelial differentiation in oscc and oed. these keratins  especially k4  may be useful for pathological diagnosis. we propose that the aberrant expression of k4 and k13 and concomitant up-regulation of the other keratins may be one of the causative factors for morphological alterations in the affected epithelium.
3134,isolation of a gene encoding a functional zinc finger protein homologous to erythroid krüppel-like factor: identification of a new multigene family.,we have identified and characterized the gene for a novel zinc finger transcription factor which we have termed lung krüppel-like factor (lklf). lklf was isolated through the use of the zinc finger domain of erythroid krüppel-like factor (elkf) as a hybridization probe and is closely related to this erythroid cell-specific gene. lklf is expressed in a limited number of tissues  with the predominant expression seen in the lungs and spleen. the gene is developmentally controlled  with expression noted in the 7-day embryo followed by a down-regulation at 11 days and subsequent reactivation. a high degree of similarity is noted in the zinc finger regions of lklf and eklf. beyond this domain  the sequences diverge significantly  although the putative transactivation domains for both lklf and eklf are proline-rich regions. in the dna-binding domain  the three zinc finger motifs are so closely conserved that the predicted dna contact sites are identical  suggesting that both proteins may bind to the same core sequence. this was further suggested by transactivation assays in which mouse fibroblasts were transiently transfected with a human beta-globin reporter gene in the absence and presence of an lklf cdna construct. expression of the lklf gene activates this human beta-globin promoter containing the caccc sequence previously shown to be a binding site for eklf. mutation of this potential binding site results in a significant reduction in the reporter gene expression. lklf and eklf can thus be grouped as members of a unique family of transcription factors which have discrete patterns of expression in different tissues and which appear to recognize the same dna-binding site.
3136,characterization of a murine monoclonal antibody to cryptococcus neoformans polysaccharide that is a candidate for human therapeutic studies.,the murine monoclonal antibody (mab) 18b7 [immunoglobulin g1(kappa)] is in preclinical development for treatment of cryptococcus neoformans infections. in anticipation of its use in humans  we defined the serological and biological properties of mab 18b7 in detail. structural comparison to the related protective mab 2h1 revealed conservation of the antigen binding site despite several amino acid differences. mab 18b7 was shown by immunofluorescence and agglutination studies to bind to all four serotypes of c. neoformans  opsonize c. neoformans serotypes a and d  enhance human and mouse effector cell antifungal activity  and activate the complement pathway leading to deposition of complement component 3 (c3) on the cryptococcal capsule. administration of mab 18b7 to mice led to rapid clearance of serum cryptococcal antigen and deposition in the liver and spleen. immunohistochemical studies revealed that mab 18b7 bound to capsular glucuronoxylomannan in infected mouse tissues. no reactivity of mab 18b7 with normal human  rat  or mouse tissues was detected. the results show that both the variable and constant regions of mab 18b7 are biologically functional and support the use of this mab in human therapeutic trials.
3138,ser-752-->pro mutation in the cytoplasmic domain of integrin beta 3 subunit and defective activation of platelet integrin alpha iib beta 3 (glycoprotein iib-iiia) in a variant of glanzmann thrombasthenia.,integrins are membrane receptors which mediate cell-cell or cell-matrix adhesion. integrin alpha iib beta 3 (glycoprotein iib-iiia) acts as a fibrinogen receptor of platelets and mediates platelet aggregation. platelet activation is required for alpha iib beta 3 to shift from noncompetent to competent for binding soluble fibrinogen. the steps involved in this transition are poorly understood. we have studied a variant of glanzmann thrombasthenia  a congenital bleeding disorder characterized by absence of platelet aggregation and fibrinogen binding. the patient's platelets did not bind fibrinogen after platelet activation by adp or thrombin  though his platelets contained alpha iib beta 3. however  isolated alpha iib beta 3 was able to bind to an arg-gly-asp-ser affinity column  and binding of soluble fibrinogen to the patient's platelets could be triggered by modulators of alpha iib beta 3 conformation such as the arg-gly-asp-ser peptide and alpha-chymotrypsin. these data suggested that a functional arg-gly-asp binding site was present within alpha iib beta 3 and that the patient's defect was not secondary to a blockade of alpha iib beta 3 in a noncompetent conformational state. this was evocative of a defect in the coupling between platelet activation and alpha iib beta 3 up-regulation. we therefore sequenced the cytoplasmic domain of beta 3  following polymerase chain reaction (pcr) on platelet rna  and found a t-->c mutation at nucleotide 2259  corresponding to a ser-752-->pro substitution. this mutation is likely to be responsible for the uncoupling of alpha iib beta 3 from cellular activation because (i) it is not a polymorphism  (ii) it is the only mutation in the entire alpha iib beta 3 sequence  and (iii) genetic analysis of the family showed that absence of the pro-752 beta 3 allele was associated with the normal phenotype. our data thus identify the c-terminal portion of the cytoplasmic domain of beta 3 as an intrinsic element in the coupling between alpha iib beta 3 and platelet activation.
3140,iap regulation of metastasis.,inhibitor-of-apoptosis (iap) proteins contribute to tumor progression  but the requirements of this pathway are not understood. here  we show that intermolecular cooperation between xiap and survivin stimulates tumor cell invasion and promotes metastasis. this pathway is independent of iap inhibition of cell death. instead  a survivin-xiap complex activates nf-kappab  which in turn leads to increased fibronectin gene expression  signaling by beta1 integrins  and activation of cell motility kinases fak and src. therefore  iaps are direct metastasis genes  and their antagonists could provide antimetastatic therapies in patients with cancer.
3142,stimulation of cd25+cd4+ regulatory t cells through gitr breaks immunological self-tolerance,cd25+cd4+ regulatory t cells in normal animals are engaged in the maintenance of immunological self-tolerance. we show here that glucocorticoid-induced tumor necrosis factor receptor family–related gene (gitr  also known as tnfrsf18)—a member of the tumor necrosis factor–nerve growth factor (tnf-ngf) receptor gene superfamily—is predominantly expressed on cd25+cd4+ t cells and on cd25+cd4+cd8− thymocytes in normal naïve mice. we found that stimulation of gitr abrogated cd25+cd4+ t cell–mediated suppression. in addition  removal of gitr-expressing t cells or administration of a monoclonal antibody to gitr produced organ-specific autoimmune disease in otherwise normal mice. thus  gitr plays a key role in dominant immunological self-tolerance maintained by cd25+cd4+ regulatory t cells and could be a suitable molecular target for preventing or treating autoimmune disease.
3144,parathyroid hormone induces e4bp4 messenger ribonucleic acid expression primarily through cyclic adenosine 3' 5'-monophosphate signaling in osteoblasts.,pth binding to its receptor activates protein kinase a (pka)  protein kinase c (pkc)  and calcium signaling to induce transcription of primary response genes in osteoblasts. adenovirus e4 promoter-binding protein/nuclear factor regulated by il-3 (e4bp4/nfil3)  a transcriptional repressor  is a pth-induced primary response gene in primary mouse osteoblasts (mobs). here we investigate the signaling pathway(s) that lead to pth induction of e4bp4 mrna expression. ten and 100 nm pth induced maximum e4bp4 expression in mobs. forskolin (fsk)  an adenylate cyclase inducer  8-bromo-camp  a camp analog  and phorbol myristate acetate  a pkc activator  increased e4bp4 mrna levels  whereas ionomycin  a calcium ionophore  had no effect. pretreatment of cells with 30 microm h89  a pka inhibitor  strongly inhibited pth- and fsk-induced e4bp4 expression. in contrast  overnight pretreatment with 1 microm phorbol myristate acetate to down-regulate pkc signaling did not alter pth and fsk effects. moreover  pth (3-34) that does not activate camp signaling did not increase e4bp4 expression. prostaglandin e(2)  which signals through camp  increased e4bp4 mrna at all doses  whereas prostaglandin f(2alpha) that primarily activates pkc and calcium signaling  induced e4bp4 only at high doses and fluprostenol that only activates pkc and calcium signaling  had no effect. finally  80 microg/kg pth (1-34) ip injection induced e4bp4 mrna expression at 1 h in mice. in contrast  80 microg/kg pth (3-34) had no effect. our data suggest that pth-induced e4bp4 mrna expression is mediated primarily through camp-pka signaling in vitro and in vivo. in conjunction with our previous report  we hypothesize that e4bp4 attenuates transcription of osteoblastic genes possessing e4bp4 promoter binding sites.
3146,human herpesvirus 8 infection and kaposi's sarcoma among human immunodeficiency virus-infected and -uninfected women.,little is known about the epidemiology of human herpesvirus 8 (hhv-8) infections among women. a cross-sectional study was conducted of hhv-8 infection among human immunodeficiency virus (hiv)-infected and high-risk hiv-uninfected women. serological tests with noninduced (latent) and induced (lytic) hhv-8 antigens were used to detect infection among 2483 participants of a multisite cohort. reactivity to latent antigen was present in 4.1% and to induced antigens in 12.0% of women. seven of 8 women who reported kaposi's sarcoma had hhv-8 antibodies. among hiv-positive women  hhv-8 infection was associated with use of crack  cocaine  or heroin (76% vs. 65%; p<.001)  past syphilis (29% vs. 20%; p<.001)  an injection drug-using male sex partner (61% vs. 53%; p=.014)  black race (p=.010)  and enrollment site (p=.015). in multivariate analysis  hiv infection  older age  past syphilis  black race  and enrollment site were independently associated with hhv-8 infection. in this cohort of north american women  hhv-8 infection was associated with hiv infection  drug use  and risky sexual behavior.
3148,the artemis:dna-pkcs endonuclease cleaves dna loops  flaps  and gaps.,in eukaryotic cells  nonhomologous dna end joining (nhej) is a major pathway for repair of double-strand dna breaks (dsbs). artemis and the 469kda dna-dependent protein kinase (dna-pkcs) together form a key nuclease for nhej in vertebrate organisms. the structure-specific endonucleolytic activity of artemis is activated by binding to and phosphorylation by dna-pkcs. we tested various dna structures in order to understand the range of structural features that are recognized by the artemis:dna-pkcs complex. we find that all tested substrates that contain single-to-double-strand transitions can be cleaved by the artemis:dna-pkcs complex near the transition region. the cleaved substrates include heterologous loops  stem-loops  flaps  and gapped substrates. such versatile activity on single-/double-strand transition regions is important in understanding how reconstituted nhej systems that lack dna polymerases can join incompatible dna ends and yet preserve 3' overhangs. additionally  the flexibility of the artemis:dna-pkcs nuclease may be important in removing secondary structures that hinder processing of dna ends during nhej.
3150,age of ovary determines remaining life expectancy in old ovariectomized mice.,we investigated the capacity of young ovaries  transplanted into old ovariectomized cba mice  to improve remaining life expectancy of the hosts. donor females were sexually mature 2-month-olds; recipients were prepubertally ovariectomized at 3 weeks and received transplants at 5  8 or 11 months of age. relative to ovariectomized control females  life expectancy at 11 months was increased by 60% in 11-month recipient females and by 40% relative to intact control females. only 20% of the 11-month transplant females died in the 300-day period following ovarian transplantation  whereas nearly 65% of the ovariectomized control females died during this same period. the 11-month-old recipient females resumed oestrus and continued to cycle up to several months beyond the age of control female reproductive senescence. across the three recipient age groups  transplantation of young ovaries increased life expectancy in proportion to the relative youth of the ovary. our results relate to recent findings on the gonadal input upon aging in caenorhabditis elegans and may suggest how the mammalian gonad  including that of humans  could regulate aging and determine longevity.
3152,the psychiatric manifestations of mitochondrial disorders: a case and review of the literature.,objective mitochondrial disorders are caused by gene mutations in mitochondrial or nuclear dna and affect energy-dependent organs such as the brain. patients with psychiatric illness  particularly those with medical comorbidities  may have primary mitochondrial disorders. to date  this issue has received little attention in the literature  and mitochondrial disorders are likely underdiagnosed in psychiatric patients. data sources this article describes a patient who presented with borderline personality disorder and treatment-resistant depression and was ultimately diagnosed with mitochondrial encephalomyopathy with lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes (melas) 3271. we also searched the literature for all case reports of patients with mitochondrial disorders who initially present with prominent psychiatric symptoms by using medline (from 1948-february 2011)  embase (from 1980-february 2011)  psycinfo (from 1806-february 2011)  and the search terms mitochondrial disorder  mitochondria  psychiatry  mental disorders  major depression  anxiety  schizophrenia  and psychosis. study selection fifty cases of mitochondrial disorders with prominent psychiatric symptomatology were identified. data extraction information about the psychiatric presentation of the cases was extracted. this information was combined with our case  the most common psychiatric manifestations of mitochondrial disorders were identified  and the important diagnostic and treatment implications for patients with psychiatric illness were reviewed. results the most common psychiatric presentations in the cases of mitochondrial disorders included mood disorder  cognitive deterioration  psychosis  and anxiety. the most common diagnosis (52% of cases) was a melas mutation. other genetic mitochondrial diagnoses included polymerase gamma mutations  kearns-sayre syndrome  mitochondrial dna deletions  point mutations  twinkle mutations  and novel mutations. conclusions patients with mitochondrial disorders can present with primary psychiatric symptomatology  including mood disorder  cognitive impairment  psychosis  and anxiety. psychiatrists need to be aware of the clinical features that are indicative of a mitochondrial disorder  investigate patients with suggestive presentations  and be knowledgeable about the treatment implications of the diagnosis.
3154,how long will long-term potentiation last?,the paramount feature of long-term potentiation (ltp) as a memory mechanism is its characteristic persistence over time. although the basic phenomenology of ltp persistence was established 30 years ago  new insights have emerged recently about the extent of ltp persistence and its regulation by activity and experience. thus  it is now evident that ltp  at least in the dentate gyrus  can either be decremental  lasting from hours to weeks  or stable  lasting months or longer. although mechanisms engaged during the induction of ltp regulate its subsequent persistence  the maintenance of ltp is also governed by activity patterns post-induction  whether induced experimentally or generated by experience. these new findings establish dentate gyrus ltp as a useful model system for studying the mechanisms governing the induction  maintenance and interference with long-term memory  including very long-term memory lasting months or longer. the challenge is to study ltp persistence in other brain areas  and to relate  if possible  the properties and regulation of ltp maintenance to these same properties of the information that is actually stored in those regions.
3156,validity and reliability of observational methods for studying medication administration errors.,the validity and reliability of observational methods for studying medication administration errors (maes) were studied. between january and june 1998  two pharmacists observed consecutive drug administration rounds by nurses on two wards in a u.k. hospital and recorded all maes identified. the observers intervened in cases of potentially harmful errors. mae records were audited to determine the percentage of omitted doses for which a corresponding reason was documented for the observation periods and for nonobservation periods. error rates for each drug administration round were analyzed according to whether they were for the nurse's first  second  third (and so on) observed round. error rates were calculated before and after the first intervention with nurses for whom an intervention was made. observer reliability was calculated by comparing the rates of errors identified by the two observers. there was no difference between the observation and nonobservation periods in the percentage of omitted doses for which a reason was documented  and there was no change in the error rate with repeated observations. there was no difference in error rates before and after the first intervention for each nurse. there was also no difference in error detection between the two observers and no change with increasing duration of observation. observation of nurses during drug administration at a u.k. hospital did not significantly affect the mae rate; nor did tactful interventions by the observers. observer reliability was high. concerns about the validity and reliability of observational methods for identifying maes may be unfounded.
3158,exocrine ontogenies: on the development of pancreatic acinar  ductal and centroacinar cells.,this review summarizes our current understanding of exocrine pancreas development  including the formation of acinar  ductal and centroacinar cells. we discuss the transcription factors associated with various stages of exocrine differentiation  from multipotent progenitor cells to fully differentiated acinar and ductal cells. within the branching epithelial tree of the embryonic pancreas  this involves the progressive restriction of multipotent pancreatic progenitor cells to either a central "trunk" domain giving rise to the islet and ductal lineages  or a peripheral "tip" domain giving rise to acinar cells. this review also discusses the soluble morphogens and other signaling pathways that influence these events. finally  we examine centroacinar cells as an enigmatic pancreatic cell type whose lineage remains uncertain  and whose possible progenitor capacities continue to be explored.
3160,the association between common physical impairments and dementia in low and middle income countries  and  among people with dementia  their association with cognitive function and disability. a 10/66 dementia research group population-based study.,objective chronic physical comorbidity is common in dementia. however  there is an absence of evidence to support good practice guidelines for attention to these problems. we aimed to study the extent of this comorbidity and its impact on cognitive function and disability in population-based studies in low and middle income countries  where chronic diseases and impairments are likely to be both common and undertreated. methods a multicentre cross-sectional survey of all over 65 year old residents (n = 15 022) in 11 catchment areas in china  india  cuba  dominican republic  venezuela  mexico and peru. we estimated the prevalence of pain  incontinence  hearing and visual impairments  mobility impairment and undernutrition according to the presence of dementia and its severity  and  among those with dementia  the independent contribution of these impairments to cognitive function and disability  adjusting for age  gender  education and dementia severity. results incontinence  hearing impairment  mobility impairment and undernutrition were consistently linearly associated with the presence of dementia and its severity across regions. among people with dementia  incontinence  hearing impairment and mobility impairment were independently associated with disability in all regions while the contributions of pain  visual impairment and undernutrition were inconsistent. only hearing impairment made a notable independent contribution to cognitive impairment. conclusions there is an urgent need for clinical trials of the feasibility  efficacy and cost-effectiveness of regular physical health checks and remediation of identified pathologies  given the considerable comorbidity identified in our population based studies  and the strong evidence for independent impact upon functioning.
3162,phosphorylation of atm by cdk5 mediates dna damage signaling and regulates neuronal death,the phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase-like kinase atm (ataxia-telangiectasia mutated) has a central role in coordinating dna damage responses  including cell-cycle checkpoint control  dna repair and apoptosis. mutations of atm cause a spectrum of defects ranging from neurodegeneration to cancer predisposition. however  the mechanism by which dna damage activates atm is poorly understood. here we show that cdk5 (cyclin-dependent kinase 5)  activated by dna damage  directly phosphorylates atm at ser 794 in post-mitotic neurons. phosphorylation at ser 794 precedes  and is required for  atm autophosphorylation at ser 1981  and activates atm kinase activity. the cdk5-atm signal regulates phosphorylation and function of the atm targets p53 and h2ax. interruption of the cdk5-atm pathway attenuates dna-damage-induced neuronal cell cycle re-entry and expression of the p53 targets puma and bax  protecting neurons from death. thus  activation of cdk5 by dna damage serves as a critical signal to initiate the atm response and regulate atm-dependent cellular processes.
3164,screening for concomitant diseases in peripheral vascular patients. results of a systematic approach.,background patients considered for arterial surgery  have been shown to have a high incidence of coexistent cardiac  vascular and other diseases  affecting operative risk and survival. we developed a systematic workup strategy for detecting these coexistent diseases in our vascular surgical patients  mainly based on non-invasive diagnostic techniques. methods we evaluated 200 consecutive patients  admitted to the department of vascular surgery in an academic teaching hospital  in order to establish the total incidence of relevant concomitant disorders  the extent to which this screening yielded previously unknown diagnostic information  and the impact on short-term (one year) survival. results coronary artery disease was present in 46% of the patients; 22% had active ischaemia  newly diagnosed in 5.5%. impaired cardiac function was found in 37%: severely impaired in 12%  newly diagnosed in 27%. carotid artery disease was present in 32%: critical stenoses were found in 9%; new diagnoses in 29.9%. aortic aneurysms were present in 7%  newly diagnosed in 5%. severe renal artery stenosis was present in 5%  newly diagnosed in 3.5%. sixteen % of the patients had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease  newly diagnosed in 3.5%  and 4.5% had unexpected disorders  which were all new diagnoses. overall  new diagnoses were reached in 64.5% of the population  affecting therapeutic strategy immediately in 21% of the patients. the presence of coronary artery disease and of cardiac failure were clearly related to one year survival. conclusions we conclude that a systematic screening strategy  mainly based on noninvasive techniques  can detect the presence of concomitant diseases in the vascular surgical patient. most important seem the newly diagnosed diseases altering surgical management in one out of every five patients; they also have important implications for patient prognosis.
3166,her-2/neu induces p53 ubiquitination via akt-mediated mdm2 phosphorylation,her-2/neu amplification or overexpression can make cancer cells resistant to apoptosis and promotes their growth. p53 is crucial in regulating cell growth and apoptosis  and is often mutated or deleted in many types of tumour. moreover  many tumours with a wild-type gene for p53 do not have normal p53 function  suggesting that some oncogenic signals suppress the function of p53. in this study  we show that her-2/neu-mediated resistance to dna-damaging agents requires the activation of akt  which enhances mdm2-mediated ubiquitination and degradation of p53. akt physically associates with mdm2 and phosphorylates it at ser166 and ser186. phosphorylation of mdm2 enhances its nuclear localization and its interaction with p300  and inhibits its interaction with p19arf  thus increasing p53 degradation. our study indicates that blocking the akt pathway mediated by her-2/neu would increase the cytotoxic effect of dna-damaging drugs in tumour cells with wild-type p53.
3168,the impact of organisational change on outcome in an intensive care unit in the united kingdom,objectives: to study the change in outcome for patients admitted to an intensive care unit following the establishment of a team of resident medical staff and a change from an "open" to a "closed" organisational format. design: database review of prospectively collected data. setting: intensive care unit of a postgraduate teaching hospital. subjects: 1134 admissions to the intensive care unit over a 3-year period  of whom 476 (42%) followed elective surgery. main outcome measure: hospital mortality corrected for illness severity by using the apache ii scoring system. results: crude hospital mortality fell from 28% before the changes to 20% afterwards (p=0.01). with correction for case-mix factors  the probability of death after the changes was reduced by almost half (or 0.51; ci 0.32  0.82  p=0.005). conclusion: a "closed" format of organisation of the delivery of care may result in improved outcomes for patients admitted to intensive care units.
3170,the spliceosome: design principles of a dynamic rnp machine,ribonucleoproteins (rnps) mediate key cellular functions such as gene expression and its regulation. whereas most rnp enzymes are stable in composition and harbor preformed active sites  the spliceosome  which removes noncoding introns from precursor messenger rnas (pre-mrnas)  follows fundamentally different strategies. in order to provide both accuracy to the recognition of reactive splice sites in the pre-mrna and flexibility to the choice of splice sites during alternative splicing  the spliceosome exhibits exceptional compositional and structural dynamics that are exploited during substrate-dependent complex assembly  catalytic activation  and active site remodeling.
3172,cx3cr1 is required for airway inflammation by promoting t helper cell survival and maintenance in inflamed lung,allergic asthma is a t helper type 2 (t(h)2)-dominated disease of the lung. in people with asthma  a fraction of cd4(+) t cells express the cx3cl1 receptor  cx3cr1  and cx3cl1 expression is increased in airway smooth muscle  lung endothelium and epithelium upon allergen challenge. here we found that untreated cx3cr1-deficient mice or wild-type (wt) mice treated with cx3cr1-blocking reagents show reduced lung disease upon allergen sensitization and challenge. transfer of wt cd4(+) t cells into cx3cr1-deficient mice restored the cardinal features of asthma  and cx3cr1-blocking reagents prevented airway inflammation in cx3cr1-deficient recipients injected with wt t(h)2 cells. we found that cx3cr1 signaling promoted t(h)2 survival in the inflamed lungs  and injection of b cell leukemia/lymphoma-2 protein (bcl-2)-transduced cx3cr1-deficient t(h)2 cells into cx3cr1-deficient mice restored asthma. cx3cr1-induced survival was also observed for t(h)1 cells upon airway inflammation but not under homeostatic conditions or upon peripheral inflammation. therefore  cx3cr1 and cx3cl1 may represent attractive therapeutic targets in asthma.
3174,usefulness of high mobility group box 1 protein as a plasma biomarker in patient with peripheral artery disease.,atherosclerosis is often associated with chronic vascular inflammation. high-mobility group box 1 protein (hmgb1) plays various roles  not only as a transcriptional regulatory factor in the nucleus  but also as an inflammatory mediator. a previous study suggested that fibrinogen is an important factor associated with atherosclerosis progression. the present study was performed to examine the levels of plasma hmgb1 protein in atherosclerosis patients. we studied 24 patients with peripheral artery disease (pad) with atherosclerosis  and 10 healthy controls. we found that the concentrations of hmgb1 were increased in the plasma of the patients with atherosclerosis  and there were significant correlations between the plasma hmgb1 and fibrinogen levels. plasma hmgb1 may play a key role in the pathogenesis of clinical and experimental atherosclerosis.
3176,a parasomnia overlap disorder involving sleepwalking  sleep terrors  and rem sleep behavior disorder in 33 polysomnographically confirmed cases.,a series of 33 patients with combined (injurious) sleepwalking  sleep terrors  and rapid eye movement (rem) sleep behavior disorder (viz. "parasomnia overlap disorder") was gathered over an 8-year period. patients underwent clinical and polysomnographic evaluations. mean age was 34 +/- 14 (sd) years; mean age of parasomnia onset was 15 +/- 16 years (range 1-66); 70% (n = 23) were males. an idiopathic subgroup (n = 22) had a significantly earlier mean age of parasomnia onset (9 +/- 7 years) than a symptomatic subgroup (n = 11) (27 +/- 23 years  p = 0.002)  whose parasomnia began with either of the following: neurologic disorders  n = 6 [congenital mobius syndrome  narcolepsy  multiple sclerosis  brain tumor (and treatment)  brain trauma  indeterminate disorder (exaggerated startle response/atypical cataplexy)]; nocturnal paroxysmal atrial fibrillation  n = 1; posttraumatic stress disorder/major depression  n = 1; chronic ethanol/amphetamine abuse and withdrawal  n = 1; or mixed disorders (schizophrenia  brain trauma  substance abuse)  n = 2. the rate of dsm-iii-r (diagnostic and statistical manual  3rd edition  revised) axis 1 psychiatric disorders was not elevated; group scores on various psychometric tests were not elevated. forty-five percent (n = 15) had previously received psychologic or psychiatric therapy for their parasomnia  without benefit. treatment outcome was available for n = 20 patients; 90% (n = 18) had substantial parasomnia control with bedtime clonazepam (n = 13)  alprazolam and/or carbamazepine (n = 4)  or self-hypnosis (n = 1). thus  "parasomnia overlap disorder" is a treatable condition that emerges in various clinical settings and can be understood within the context of current knowledge on parasomnias and motor control/dyscontrol during sleep.
3178,conservation of methylation reprogramming in mammalian development: aberrant reprogramming in cloned embryos.,mouse embryos undergo genome-wide methylation reprogramming by demethylation in early preimplantation development  followed by remethylation thereafter. here we show that genome-wide reprogramming is conserved in several mammalian species and ask whether it also occurs in embryos cloned with the use of highly methylated somatic donor nuclei. normal bovine  rat  and pig zygotes showed a demethylated paternal genome  suggesting active demethylation. in bovine embryos methylation was further reduced during cleavage up to the eight-cell stage  and this reduction in methylation was followed by de novo methylation by the 16-cell stage. in cloned one-cell embryos there was a reduction in methylation consistent with active demethylation  but no further demethylation occurred subsequently. instead  de novo methylation and nuclear reorganization of methylation patterns resembling those of differentiated cells occurred precociously in many cloned embryos. cloned  but not normal  morulae had highly methylated nuclei in all blastomeres that resembled those of the fibroblast donor cells. our study shows that epigenetic reprogramming occurs aberrantly in most cloned embryos; incomplete reprogramming may contribute to the low efficiency of cloning.
3180,reduced cytokine release in ex vivo response to cilengitide and cetuximab is a marker for improved survival of head and neck cancer patients,targeting of αvβ3 and αvβ5 integrins by cilengitide may reduce growth of solid tumors including head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (hnscc). preclinical investigations suggest increased activity of cilengitide in combination with other treatment modalities. the only published trial in hnscc (advantage) investigated cisplatin  5-fluorouracil  and cetuximab (pfe) without or with once (pfe+cil1w) or twice weekly cilengitide (pfe+cil2w) in recurrent/metastatic hnscc. advantage showed good tolerability of the cilengitide arms and even lower adverse events (aes) compared to pfe but not the benefit in overall survival expected based on preclinical data. as we found in the flavino assay  a short-time ex vivo assay for prediction of chemosensitivity  only a subgroup of hnscc had an increased suppressive effect of cilengitide containing combination therapies on colony formation of epithelial cells (cfec) and release of pro-angiogenetic and pro-inflammatory cytokines  whereas other hnscc failed to respond. response to αvβ3 and αvβ5 integrin targeting by cilengitide classifies hnscc regarding outcome. we present flavino data arguing for further development of cilengitide plus cetuximab in treatment of a subgroup of hnscc potentially identified by the flavino assay using a set of biomarkers for response evaluation.
3182,production of de novo cardiomyocytes: human pluripotent stem cell differentiation and direct reprogramming.,cardiovascular disease is a leading cause of death worldwide. the limited capability of heart tissue to regenerate has prompted methodological developments for creating de novo cardiomyocytes  both in vitro and in vivo. beyond uses in cell replacement therapy  patient-specific cardiomyocytes may find applications in drug testing  drug discovery  and disease modeling. recently  approaches for generating cardiomyocytes have expanded to encompass three major sources of starting cells: human pluripotent stem cells (hpscs)  adult heart-derived cardiac progenitor cells (cpcs)  and reprogrammed fibroblasts. we discuss state-of-the-art methods for generating de novo cardiomyocytes from hpscs and reprogrammed fibroblasts  highlighting potential applications and future challenges.
3184,competition and the evolution of reproductive restraint in malaria parasites.,all organisms must trade off resource allocation between different life processes that determine their survival and reproduction. malaria parasites replicate asexually in the host but must produce sexual stages to transmit between hosts. because different specialized stages are required for these functions  the division of resources between these life-history components is a key problem for natural selection to solve. despite the medical and economic importance of these parasites  their reproductive strategies remain poorly understood and often seem counterintuitive. here  we tested recent theory predicting that in-host competition shapes how parasites trade off investment in in-host replication relative to between-host transmission. we demonstrate  across several genotypes  that plasmodium chabaudi parasites detect the presence of competing genotypes and facultatively respond by reducing their investment in sexual stages in the manner predicted to maximize their competitive ability. furthermore  we show that genotypes adjust their allocation to sexual stages in line with the availability of exploitable red blood cell resources. our findings are predicted by evolutionary theory developed to explain life-history trade-offs in more traditionally studied multicellular taxa and suggest that the answer to the long-standing question of why so few transmission stages are produced is that in most natural infections heavy investment in reproduction may compromise in-host survival.
3186,piezo1 is as a novel trefoil factor family 1 binding protein that promotes gastric cancer cell mobility in vitro,trefoil factor family 1 (tff1) is a member of the tff-domain peptide family involved in epithelial restitution and cell motility. recently  we screened piezo1 as a candidate tff1-binding protein. we aimed to confirm piezo1 as a novel tff1 binding protein and to assess the role of this interaction in mediating gastric cancer cell mobility. this interaction was confirmed by co-immunoprecipitation and co-localisation of tff1 and piezo1 in ges-1 cells. we used stable rna interference to knockdown piezo1 protein expression and restored the expression of tff1 in the gastric cancer cell lines sgc-7901 and bgc-823. cell motility was evaluated using invasion assay and migration assay in vitro. the expression levels of the integrin subunits β1  β5  α1 as well as the expression of β-catenin and e-cadherin were detected by western blot. we demonstrate that tff1  but not tff2 or tff3  bind to and co-localize with piezo1 in the cytoplasm in vitro. tff1 interacts with the c-terminal portion of the piezo1 protein. wound healing and trans-well assays demonstrated that the restored expression of tff1 promoted cell mobility in gastric cancer cells  and this effect was attenuated by the knockdown of piezo1. western blots demonstrated the decreased expression of integrin β1 in piezo1-knockdown cells. our data demonstrate that piezo1 is a novel tff1 binding protein that is important for tff1-mediated cell migration and suggest that this interaction may be a therapeutic target in the invasion and metastasis of gastric cancer.
3188,beyond pattern recognition: five immune checkpoints for scaling the microbial threat,pattern recognition by the innate immune system enables the detection of microorganisms  but how the level of microbial threat is evaluated — a process that is crucial for eliciting measured antimicrobial responses with minimal inflammatory tissue damage — is less well understood. new evidence has shown that features of microbial viability can be detected by the immune system and thereby induce robust responses that are not warranted for dead microorganisms. here  we propose five immune checkpoints that  as defined here  collectively determine the gravity of microbial encounters.
3190,a graphene-based platform for induced pluripotent stem cells culture and differentiation.,induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs) hold great promise as a cell source for regenerative medicine yet its culture  maintenance of pluripotency and induction of differentiation remain challenging. conversely  graphene (g) and graphene oxide (go) have captured tremendous interests in the fields of materials science  physics  chemistry and nanotechnology. here we report on that g and go can support the mouse ipscs culture and allow for spontaneous differentiation. intriguingly  g and go surfaces led to distinct cell proliferation and differentiation characteristics. in comparison with the glass surface  ipscs cultured on the g surface exhibited similar degrees of cell adhesion and proliferation while ipscs on the go surface adhered and proliferated at a faster rate. moreover  g favorably maintained the ipscs in the undifferentiated state while go expedited the differentiation. the ipscs cultured on both g and go surfaces spontaneously differentiated into ectodermal and mesodermal lineages without significant disparity  but g suppressed the ipscs differentiation towards the endodermal lineage whereas go augmented the endodermal differentiation. these data collectively demonstrated that the different surface properties of g and go governed the ipscs behavior and implicate the potentials of graphene-based materials as a platform for ipscs culture and diverse applications.
3192,acetylation controls notch3 stability and function in t-cell leukemia,post-translational modifications of notch3 and their functional role with respect to notch3 overexpression in t-cell leukemia are still poorly understood. we identify here a specific novel property of notch3 that is acetylated and deacetylated at lysines 1692 and 1731 by p300 and hdac1  respectively  a balance impaired by hdac inhibitors (hdaci) that favor hyperacetylation. by using hdaci and a non-acetylatable notch3 mutant carrying k/r1692−1731 mutations in the intracellular domain  we show that notch3 acetylation primes ubiquitination and proteasomal-mediated degradation of the protein. as a consequence  notch3 protein expression and its transcriptional activity are decreased both in vitro and in vivo in notch3 transgenic (tg) mice  thus impairing downstream signaling upon target genes. consistently  notch3-induced t-cell proliferation is inhibited by hdaci  whereas it is enhanced by the non-acetylatable notch3-k/r1692−1731 mutant. finally  hdaci-induced notch3 hyperacetylation prevents in vivo growth of t-cell leukemia/lymphoma in notch3 tg mice. together  our findings suggest a novel level of notch signaling control in which notch3 acetylation/deacetylation process represents a key regulatory switch  thus representing a suitable druggable target for notch3-sustained t-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia therapy.
3194,efficacy of a 6-month versus 9-month intermittent treatment regimen in hiv-infected patients with tuberculosis: a randomized clinical trial.,rationale the outcome of fully intermittent thrice-weekly antituberculosis treatment of various durations in hiv-associated tuberculosis is unclear. objectives to compare the efficacy of an intermittent 6-month regimen (reg6m: 2ehrz(3)/4hr(3) [ethambutol  1 200 mg; isoniazid  600 mg; rifampicin  450 or 600 mg depending on body weight <60 or > or =60 kg; and pyrazinamide  1 500 mg for 2 mo; followed by 4 mo of isoniazid and rifampicin at the same doses]) versus a 9-month regimen (reg9m: 2ehrz(3)/7hr(3)) in hiv/tuberculosis (tb). methods hiv-infected patients with newly diagnosed pulmonary or extrapulmonary tb were randomly assigned to reg6m (n = 167) or reg9m (n = 160) and monitored by determination of clinical  immunological  and bacteriological parameters for 36 months. primary outcomes included favorable responses at the end of treatment and recurrences during follow-up  whereas the secondary outcome was death. intent-to-treat and on-treatment analyses were performed. all patients were antiretroviral treatment-naive during treatment. measurements and main results of the patients  70% had culture-positive pulmonary tb; the median viral load was 155 000 copies/ml and the cd4(+) cell count was 160 cells/mm(3). favorable response to antituberculosis treatment was similar by intent to treat (reg6m  83% and reg9m  76%; p = not significant). bacteriological recurrences occurred significantly more often in reg6m than in reg9m (15 vs. 7%; p < 0.05) although overall recurrences were not significantly different (reg6m  19% vs. reg9m  13%). by 36 months  36% of patients undergoing reg6m and 35% undergoing reg9m had died  with no significant difference between regimens. all 19 patients who failed treatment developed acquired rifamycin resistance (arr)  the main risk factor being baseline isoniazid resistance. conclusions among antiretroviral treatment-naive hiv-infected patients with tb  a 9-month regimen resulted in a similar outcome at the end of treatment but a significantly lower bacteriological recurrence rate compared with a 6-month thrice-weekly regimen. arr was high with these intermittent regimens and neither mortality nor arr was altered by lengthening tb treatment. clinical trials registry information: id# nct00376012 registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov.
3196,inhibition of cell proliferation and induction of apoptosis by exfabp gene targeting.,ex-fabp  an extracellular fatty acid binding lipocalin  is physiologically expressed by differentiating chicken chondrocytes and myoblasts. its expression is enhanced after cell treatment with inflammatory stimuli and repressed by anti-inflammatory agents  behaving as an acute phase protein. chicken liver fragments in culture show enhanced protein expression after bacterial endotoxin treatment. to investigate the biological role of ex-fabp  we stably transfected proliferating chondrocytes with an expression vector carrying antisense oriented ex-fabp cdna. we observed a dramatic loss of cell viability and a strong inhibition of cell proliferation and differentiation. when chondrocytes were transfected with the antisense oriented ex-fabp cdna we observed that ex-fabp down-modulation increased apoptotic cell number. myoblasts transfected with the same expression vector showed extensive cell death and impaired myotube formation. we suggest that ex-fabp acts as a constitutive survival protein and that its expression and activation are fundamental to protect chondrocytes from cell death.
3198,the impact of copd on lung health worldwide: epidemiology and incidence.,information on the prevalence of copd was obtained from vital statistics  health interview surveys  hospital charge records  national publications  and the world health organization (who). these data indicate that copd is a common disease with implications for global health. in the united states  morbidity caused by copd is 4%  making copd the fourth leading cause of death  exceeded only by heart attacks  cancer  and stroke. internationally  there is substantial variation in death rates possibly reflecting smoking behavior  type and processing of tobacco  pollution  climate  respiratory management  and genetic factors. the global obstructive lung disease initiative  initiated by the national heart  lung  and blood institute and the who  aims to raise awareness of the increasing burden of copd  decrease morbidity and mortality  promote further study of the condition  and implement programs to prevent copd.
3200,mismatch repair status and clinical outcome in endometrial cancer: a systematic review and meta-analysis.,background the association between the deficiency in mismatch repair (mmr) genes and prognosis in women with endometrial cancer is unclear. here we report a systematic review and meta-analysis exploring this association. methods we searched literature databases (medline  embase  and cochrane) from 1980 until december 2011 to identify studies evaluating the association between mmr status and clinical outcome in endometrial cancer. the main outcome measures were overall survival (os) and disease-free survival (dfs). results twenty-three studies met the inclusion criteria. the median sample size of studies was 112  74% were retrospective case-series and 70% performed microsatellite instability (msi) analysis to evaluate the status of mmr. only 22% of studies used the panel of five microsatellite markers recommended by the national cancer institute. seven studies used immunohistochemistry to define mmr deficiency  but only two of them determined the expression of all four mmr proteins. overall  significant associations between mmr and outcome were observed in 32% of studies. there was marked inter-study heterogeneity for estimates of os and dfs. pooled analysis did not show any significant association between deficiency in mmr and worse os (6 studies  hazard ratio [hr] 2.0  p=0.11) or dfs (4 studies  hr ratio 1.31  p=0.66). conclusion there is no definitive evidence of a significant association between mmr status and detrimental survival in endometrial cancer.
3202,regulation of innate immunity by nadph oxidase.,nadph oxidase is a critical regulator of both antimicrobial host defense and inflammation. activated in nature by microbes and microbial-derived products  the phagocyte nadph oxidase is rapidly assembled  and generates reactive oxidant intermediates (rois) in response to infectious threat. chronic granulomatous disease (cgd) is an inherited disorder of the nadph oxidase characterized by recurrent and severe bacterial and fungal infections  and pathology related to excessive inflammation. studies in cgd patients and cgd mouse models indicate that nadph oxidase plays a key role in modulating inflammation and injury that is distinct from its antimicrobial function. the mechanisms by which nadph oxidase mediates killing of pathogens and regulation of inflammation have broad relevance to our understanding of normal physiological immune responses and pathological states  such as acute lung injury and bacterial or fungal infections.
3204,detection of prions in blood,prion diseases are caused by an unconventional infectious agent termed prion  composed mainly of the misfolded prion protein (prpsc). the development of highly sensitive assays for biochemical detection of prpsc in blood is a top priority for minimizing the spread of the disease. here we show that the protein misfolding cyclic amplification (pmca) technology can be automated and optimized for high-efficiency amplification of prpsc. we show that 140 pmca cycles leads to a 6 600-fold increase in sensitivity over standard detection methods. two successive rounds of pmca cycles resulted in a 10 million–fold increase in sensitivity and a capability to detect as little as 8 000 equivalent molecules of prpsc. notably  serial pmca enables detection of prpsc in blood samples of scrapie-afflicted hamsters with 89% sensitivity and 100% specificity. these findings represent the first time that prpsc has been detected biochemically in blood  offering promise for developing a noninvasive method for early diagnosis of prion diseases.
3206,vitamin d and obesity: current perspectives and future directions.,in recent years  new functional roles of vitamin d beyond its traditional role in calcium homoeostasis and bone metabolism have emerged linking the fat-soluble vitamin to various non-communicable diseases. vitamin d deficiency (25-hydroxyvitamin d (25(oh)d) < 25-30 nmol/l) and sub-optimal status (25(oh)d < 50-100 nmol/l) are increasingly associated with unfavourable metabolic phenotypes  including insulin resistance  type 2 diabetes and cvd; conditions also commonly linked with overweight and obesity. early studies reported poor vitamin d status in the morbidly obese. more recently  it has been observed that a graded relationship between vitamin d status and bmi  or specifically adiposity  exists in the general population. a number of hypotheses have been proposed to explain the potential mechanisms whereby alterations in the vitamin d endocrine system occur in the obese state. plausible explanations include sequestration in adipose tissue  volumetric dilution or negative feedback mechanisms from increased circulating 1 25-dihydroxyvitamin d3. others hypothesise that heavier individuals may partake in less outdoor activity  may also cover-up and wear more clothing than leaner individuals  thus decreasing sun exposure and limiting endogenous production of cholecalciferol in the skin. moreover  in some but not all studies  bmi and adiposity have been negatively associated with the change in vitamin d status following vitamin d supplementation. it therefore remains unclear if body size and/or adiposity should be taken into account when determining the dietary requirements for vitamin d. this review will evaluate the current evidence linking vitamin d status and supplementation to overweight and obesity  and discuss the implications for setting dietary requirements.
3208,pleiotropic effects of statins.,statins are potent inhibitors of cholesterol biosynthesis. in clinical trials  statins are beneficial in the primary and secondary prevention of coronary heart disease. however  the overall benefits observed with statins appear to be greater than what might be expected from changes in lipid levels alone  suggesting effects beyond cholesterol lowering. indeed  recent studies indicate that some of the cholesterol-independent or "pleiotropic" effects of statins involve improving endothelial function  enhancing the stability of atherosclerotic plaques  decreasing oxidative stress and inflammation  and inhibiting the thrombogenic response. furthermore  statins have beneficial extrahepatic effects on the immune system  cns  and bone. many of these pleiotropic effects are mediated by inhibition of isoprenoids  which serve as lipid attachments for intracellular signaling molecules. in particular  inhibition of small gtp-binding proteins  rho  ras  and rac  whose proper membrane localization and function are dependent on isoprenylation  may play an important role in mediating the pleiotropic effects of statins.
3210,molecular mechanism of bst2/tetherin downregulation by k5/mir2 of kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus.,k3/mir1 and k5/mir2 of kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (kshv) are viral members of the membrane-associated ring-ch (march) ubiquitin ligase family and contribute to viral immune evasion by directing the conjugation of ubiquitin to immunostimulatory transmembrane proteins. in a quantitative proteomic screen for novel host cell proteins downregulated by viral immunomodulators  we previously observed that k5  as well as the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (hiv-1) immunomodulator vpu  reduced steady-state levels of bone marrow stromal cell antigen 2 (bst2; also called cd317 or tetherin)  suggesting that bst2 might be a novel substrate of k5 and vpu. recent work revealed that in the absence of vpu  hiv-1 virions are tethered to the plasma membrane in bst2-expressing hela cells. by targeting bst2  k5 might thus similarly overcome an innate antiviral host defense mechanism. here we establish that despite its type ii transmembrane topology and carboxy-terminal glycosylphosphatidylinositol (gpi) anchor  bst2 represents a bona fide target of k5 that is downregulated during primary infection by and reactivation of kshv. upon exit of the protein from the endoplasmic reticulum  lysines in the short amino-terminal domain of bst2 are ubiquitinated by k5  resulting in rapid degradation of bst2. ubiquitination of bst2 is required for degradation  since bst2 lacking cytosolic lysines was k5 resistant and ubiquitin depletion by proteasome inhibitors restored bst2 surface expression. thus  bst2 represents the first type ii transmembrane protein targeted by k5 and the first example of a protein that is both ubiquitinated and gpi linked. we further demonstrate that kshv release is decreased in the absence of k5 in a bst2-dependent manner  suggesting that k5 contributes to the evasion of intracellular antiviral defense programs.
3212,lipoprotein(a) concentration and the risk of coronary heart disease  stroke  and nonvascular mortality.,context circulating concentration of lipoprotein(a) (lp[a])  a large glycoprotein attached to a low-density lipoprotein-like particle  may be associated with risk of coronary heart disease (chd) and stroke. objective to assess the relationship of lp(a) concentration with risk of major vascular and nonvascular outcomes. study selection long-term prospective studies that recorded lp(a) concentration and subsequent major vascular morbidity and/or cause-specific mortality published between january 1970 and march 2009 were identified through electronic searches of medline and other databases  manual searches of reference lists  and discussion with collaborators. data extraction individual records were provided for each of 126 634 participants in 36 prospective studies. during 1.3 million person-years of follow-up  22 076 first-ever fatal or nonfatal vascular disease outcomes or nonvascular deaths were recorded  including 9336 chd outcomes  1903 ischemic strokes  338 hemorrhagic strokes  751 unclassified strokes  1091 other vascular deaths  8114 nonvascular deaths  and 242 deaths of unknown cause. within-study regression analyses were adjusted for within-person variation and combined using meta-analysis. analyses excluded participants with known preexisting chd or stroke at baseline. data synthesis lipoprotein(a) concentration was weakly correlated with several conventional vascular risk factors and it was highly consistent within individuals over several years. associations of lp(a) with chd risk were broadly continuous in shape. in the 24 cohort studies  the rates of chd in the top and bottom thirds of baseline lp(a) distributions  respectively  were 5.6 (95% confidence interval [ci]  5.4-5.9) per 1000 person-years and 4.4 (95% ci  4.2-4.6) per 1000 person-years. the risk ratio for chd  adjusted for age and sex only  was 1.16 (95% ci  1.11-1.22) per 3.5-fold higher usual lp(a) concentration (ie  per 1 sd)  and it was 1.13 (95% ci  1.09-1.18) following further adjustment for lipids and other conventional risk factors. the corresponding adjusted risk ratios were 1.10 (95% ci  1.02-1.18) for ischemic stroke  1.01 (95% ci  0.98-1.05) for the aggregate of nonvascular mortality  1.00 (95% ci  0.97-1.04) for cancer deaths  and 1.00 (95% ci  0.95-1.06) for nonvascular deaths other than cancer. conclusion under a wide range of circumstances  there are continuous  independent  and modest associations of lp(a) concentration with risk of chd and stroke that appear exclusive to vascular outcomes.
3214,antipsychotic prescribing patterns in germany: a retrospective analysis using a large outpatient prescription database.,data of prescribing practices for antipsychotics are of great interest with respect to quality of care. consequently  we analysed all prescriptions under the statutory health insurance redeemed at pharmacies in southern germany between july 1999 and december 2001. the database covers prescriptions for approximately 25 million people. up to 6% of the population were prescribed an antipsychotic at least once during the study period. most prescriptions were for conventional antipsychotics and written by non-specialists. patients receiving second generation antipsychotics were more likely to receive continuous antipsychotic therapy. for a large proportion of patients  antipsychotic polypharmacy  as well as comedication for somatic illnesses  were observed. in particular  drugs for the treatment of cardiovascular and metabolic disorders were frequently co-prescribed. physicians should consider patients' cardiovascular and metabolic risk profile when making treatment choices. the data suggest that the majority of antipsychotics are used for the treatment of disorders other than schizophrenia. it is important to raise awareness among non-specialists about the indications  efficacy and side-effects of the antipsychotics because these physicians account for the majority of antipsychotic prescriptions.
3216,epigenetic regulation of nanog by mir-302 cluster-mbd2 completes induced pluripotent stem cell reprogramming.,while most somatic cells undergoing induced pluripotent stem (ips) cell reprogramming with yamanaka factors accumulate at stable partially reprogrammed stages  the molecular mechanisms required to achieve full reprogramming are unknown. micrornas (mirnas) fine-tune mrna translation and are implicated in reprogramming  but mirna functional targets critical for complete ips cell reprogramming remain elusive. we identified methyl-dna binding domain protein 2 (mbd2) as an epigenetic suppressor  blocking full reprogramming of somatic to ips cells through direct binding to nanog promoter elements preventing transcriptional activation. when we overexpressed mir-302 cluster we observed a significant increase in conversion of partial to fully reprogrammed ips cells by suppressing mbd2 expression  thereby increasing nanog expression. thus  expression of exogenous mir-302 cluster (without mir-367) is efficient in attaining a fully reprogrammed ips state in partially reprogrammed cells by relieving mbd2-mediated inhibition of nanog expression. our studies provide a direct molecular mechanism involved in generating complete human ips cell reprogramming to study disease pathogenesis  drug screening  and for potential cell-based therapies.
3218,systemic arterial hypertension in children following renal transplantation: prevalence and risk factors.,background control of blood pressure (bp) following renal transplantation may improve allograft and patient survival. our aims were (i) to describe the distribution of bp and the prevalence of systolic and/or diastolic hypertension in children over the first 5 years following renal transplantation and (ii) to evaluate clinical risk factors and centre-specific factors associated with hypertension in this population. methods we conducted a retrospective case note review of all current paediatric kidney transplant patients in the uk  with data collected at 6 months  1  2 and 5 years following transplantation in subjects with hypertension (systolic and/or diastolic bp > 95th > ) and non-hypertensive subjects bp ≤ 95th > . results in total  27.3% (117/428)  27.6% (118/428)  26.0% (95/365) and 25.6% (50/195) of the patients were hypertensive (systolic and/or diastolic bp > 95th > ) at 6 months  1  2 and 5 years following transplantation  respectively. a total of 58.4% of the patients at 6 months  52.8% at 1 year  48.2% at 2 years and 48.2% at 5 years were receiving anti-hypertensive therapy  of whom 31.6-36.6% remained hypertensive. when subjects were identified as being hypertensive  on anti-hypertensive medication or had untreated hypertension (systolic and/or diastolic bp > 95th > )  66.4  61.0  56.4 and 55.9% of patients were hypertensive at 6 months  1  2 and 5 years  respectively. in a multivariate model  odds ratios for systolic hypertension were 4.16 (deceased versus living donor)  2.65 (lowest versus highest quartile of height z-score) and 2.07 (if on anti-hypertensive; yes versus no). there was significant variation in prevalent rates of hypertension between centres (p < 0.0001) that remained significant (p = 0.003) after adjustment for all the factors in the multivariate model. conclusions control of bp after kidney transplantation remains sub-optimal in paediatric centres in the uk. just over 25% of patients remain hypertensive 5 years following transplantation. significant differences between centres remain unexplained and may reflect differences in assessment and management of hypertension.
3220,comparison of dietary assessment methods in a southern french population: use of weighed records  estimated-diet records and a food-frequency questionnaire,objective: the main objective of the study was to develop appropriate dietary assessment instruments for the french mediterranean region and to validate the measurements they provide. subjects and methods: three different assessment methods were submitted to a sample of 150 male and female volunteers. 98 completed the protocol  which consisted of a 4 d weighed dietary record (petra) and a 7 d estimated-diet record (s7) based on a check list and a set of photographs  both these records being completed once in each season of the year  and a semi-quantitative (standard portion) food-frequency questionnaire (ffq) including questions eliciting socio-demographic and anthropometric data  which was completed once only. the days when petra was used to evaluate food consumption coincided with the first 4 d of s7 (s4).results: validation was based on nutrients and foods. energy-adjusted pearson correlation coefficients between s4 and petra ranged from 0.32 for vitamin e to 0.81 for vitamin c (mean: 0.65 for 21 nutrients). there was practically no misclassification in opposite extreme quartiles. spearman correlation coefficients ranged from 0.63 for fish and sea-food to 0.90 for wine (mean: 0.76 for 16 food groups). there was practically no misclassification in opposite extreme quartiles. de-attenuated energy-adjusted pearson correlation coefficients between ffq and s7 ranged from 0.22 for proteins and monounsaturated fatty acids to 0.80 for iron (mean: 0.45). 10% or less of subjects were misclassified in opposite extreme quartiles (except for vitamin c  12%). spearman correlation coefficients ranged from 0.25 for green-yellow-red raw vegetables to 0.76 for wine (mean: 0.42). 8% or less of subjects were misclassified in opposite extreme quartiles (except for citrus fruit  11%).conclusions: portion estimation using the set of photographs was validated by the correlation between s4 and petra for both nutrients and foods. the ffq provides a reasonably reliable measure of macronutrient intake and a good measure of micronutrient intake when compared with the data in the literature. it performs less well for food intake. better results can be achieved for ffq: (i) by using the set of photographs instead of standard portions and (ii) by adding further questions on foods which are insufficiently covered. sponsorship: this work has been financially supported by inserm contract 91-1006 and the ardèche and hérault committees of the ‘ligue contre le cancer’.
3222,the effect of folic acid supplementation on plasma homocysteine in an elderly population.,background increased plasma homocysteine is associated with coronary artery disease  peripheral vascular disease and venous thrombosis. folic acid is the most effective therapy for reducing homocysteine levels. the lowest effective supplement of folic acid is not known  particularly for the elderly who have the highest prevalence of these conditions. aim to explore the effects of daily supplements of 0  50  100  200  400 and 600 microg folic acid on plasma homocysteine in an elderly population. design randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial. methods participants (n=368) aged 65-75 years were randomly allocated to receive one of the treatments for 6 weeks. plasma homocysteine was recorded after 3 weeks and 6 weeks of supplementation. results only the 400 microg and 600 microg groups had significantly lower homocysteine levels compared to placebo (p=0.038 and p<0.001  respectively). using multiple linear regression and each individual's total folic acid intake (diet plus supplement)  a total daily folic acid intake of 926 microg per day would be required to ensure that 95% of the elderly population would be without cardiovascular risk from folate deficiency. discussion a daily folic acid intake of 926 microg is unlikely to be achieved by diet alone. individual supplementation or fortification of food with folic acid will be required to reach this target.
3224,population density profiles of nasopharyngeal carriage of 5 bacterial species in pre-school children measured using quantitative pcr offer potential insights into the dynamics of transmission.,bacterial vaccines can reduce carriage rates. colonization is usually a binary endpoint. real time quantitative pcr (qpcr) can quantify bacterial dna in mucosal samples over a wide range. using culture and single-gene species-specific qpcrs for streptococcus pneumoniae (lyta)  streptococcus pyogenes (ntpc)  moraxella catarrhalis (ompj)  haemophilus influenzae (hdp) and staphylococcus aureus (nuc) and standard curves against log-phase reference strain broth cultures we described frequency and peak density distributions of carriage in nasopharyngeal swabs from 161 healthy 2-4 y old children collected into stgg broth. in general  detection by qpcr and culture was consistent. discordance mostly occurred at lower detection thresholds of both methods  although pcr assays for s. pyogenes and s. aureus were less sensitive. density varied across 5-7 orders of magnitude for the 5 species with the abundant species skewed toward high values (modes: s. pneumoniae log3-4  m. catarrhalis & h. influenzae log4-5 cfu/ml broth). wide ranges of bacterial dna concentrations in healthy children carrying these bacteria could mean that different individuals at different times vary greatly in infectiousness. understanding the host  microbial and environmental determinants of colonization density will permit more accurate prediction of vaccine effectiveness.
3226,herpesvirus-encoded gpcrs: neglected players in inflammatory and proliferative diseases?,herpesviruses encode membrane-associated g protein-coupled receptors (gpcrs) in their viral genomes that are structurally similar to chemokine receptors. these gpcrs hijack gpcr-mediated cellular signalling networks of the host for survival  replication and pathogenesis. in particular the herpesvirus-encoded chemokine receptors orf74  bilf1 and us28  which are present at inflammatory sites and tumour cells  provide important virus-specific targets for directed therapies. given the high druggability of gpcrs in general  these viral gpcrs can be considered promising antiviral drug targets.
3228,integrated genomic analysis identifies clinically relevant subtypes of glioblastoma characterized by abnormalities in pdgfra  idh1  egfr  and nf1.,the cancer genome atlas network recently cataloged recurrent genomic abnormalities in glioblastoma multiforme (gbm). we describe a robust gene expression-based molecular classification of gbm into proneural  neural  classical  and mesenchymal subtypes and integrate multidimensional genomic data to establish patterns of somatic mutations and dna copy number. aberrations and gene expression of egfr  nf1  and pdgfra/idh1 each define the classical  mesenchymal  and proneural subtypes  respectively. gene signatures of normal brain cell types show a strong relationship between subtypes and different neural lineages. additionally  response to aggressive therapy differs by subtype  with the greatest benefit in the classical subtype and no benefit in the proneural subtype. we provide a framework that unifies transcriptomic and genomic dimensions for gbm molecular stratification with important implications for future studies.
3230,cd64 expression distinguishes monocyte-derived and conventional dendritic cells and reveals their distinct role during intramuscular immunization.,although most vaccines are administered i.m.  little is known about the dendritic cells (dcs) that are present within skeletal muscles. in this article  we show that expression of cd64  the high-affinity igg receptor fcγri  distinguishes conventional dcs from monocyte-derived dcs (mo-dcs). by using such a discriminatory marker  we defined the distinct dc subsets that reside in skeletal muscles and identified their migratory counterparts in draining lymph nodes (lns). we further used this capability to analyze the functional specialization that exists among muscle dcs. after i.m. administration of ag adsorbed to alum  we showed that alum-injected muscles contained large numbers of conventional dcs that belong to the cd8α(+)- and cd11b(+)-type dcs. both conventional dc types were capable of capturing ag and of migrating to draining lns  where they efficiently activated naive t cells. in alum-injected muscles  mo-dcs were as numerous as conventional dcs  but only a small fraction migrated to draining lns. therefore  alum by itself poorly induces mo-dcs to migrate to draining lns. we showed that addition of small amounts of lps to alum enhanced mo-dc migration. considering that migratory mo-dcs had  on a per cell basis  a higher capacity to induce ifn-γ-producing t cells than conventional dcs  the addition of lps to alum enhanced the overall immunogenicity of ags presented by muscle-derived dcs. therefore  a full understanding of the role of adjuvants during i.m. vaccination needs to take into account the heterogeneous migratory and functional behavior of muscle dcs and mo-dcs revealed in this study.
3232,key interactions by conserved polar amino acids located at the transmembrane helical boundaries in class b gpcrs modulate activation  effector specificity and biased signalling in the glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor.,class b gpcrs can activate multiple signalling effectors with the potential to exhibit biased agonism in response to ligand stimulation. previously  we highlighted key tm domain polar amino acids that were crucial for the function of the glp-1 receptor  a key therapeutic target for diabetes and obesity. using a combination of mutagenesis  pharmacological characterisation  mathematical and computational molecular modelling  this study identifies additional highly conserved polar residues located towards the tm helical boundaries of class b gpcrs that are important for glp-1 receptor stability and/or controlling signalling specificity and biased agonism. this includes (i) three positively charged residues (r3.30227  k4.64288  r5.40310) located at the extracellular boundaries of tms 3  4 and 5 that are predicted in molecular models to stabilise extracellular loop 2  a crucial domain for ligand affinity and receptor activation; (ii) a predicted hydrogen bond network between residues located in tms 2 (r2.46176)  6 (r6.37348) and 7 (n7.61406 and e7.63408) at the cytoplasmic face of the receptor that is important for stabilising the inactive receptor and directing signalling specificity  (iii) residues at the bottom of tm 5 (r5.56326) and tm6 (k6.35346 and k6.40351) that are crucial for receptor activation and downstream signalling; (iv) residues predicted to be involved in stabilisation of tm4 (n2.52182 and y3.52250) that also influence cell signalling. collectively  this work expands our understanding of peptide-mediated signalling by the glp-1 receptor.
3234,effect of exercise-induced ischemia on qt interval dispersion.,an increased spatial dispersion of ventricular repolarization duration (qt dispersion) is associated with an increased vulnerability to arrhythmias. this study was designed to examine the effect of exercise on qt dispersion in ischemic heart disease (ihd). qt dispersion  corrected qt dispersion  and percentage change in uncorrected and corrected qt dispersion between rest and peak exercise were examined in 14 members of a control group  17 patients with ihd  and 14 patients with ihd who were receiving beta-blockers (ihd-b). all subjects had undergone a standard bruce protocol exercise test  and qt intervals were measured at rest and peak exercise with a digitizing tablet interfaced to a personal computer. qt dispersion at rest was markedly increased in the ihd group compared with that in the control and ihd-b groups  respectively (corrected qt dispersion in milliseconds)  74 +/- 7  40 +/- 4  49 +/- 5  p < 0.03). the corrected qt dispersion at peak exercise was greater in the ihd group compared with that in the control group (57 +/- 5 vs 26 +/- 3 msec  p < 0.03). the percentage change in qt dispersion with exercise was significantly higher in the ihd group (52% +/- 5%) compared with that in both the control group (28% +/- 4%  p < 0.002) and the ihd-b group (30% +/- 3%  p < 0.01). a larger mean qt dispersion at peak exercise and an increased percentage change in qt dispersion with exercise may help explain the increased susceptibility of the ihd group for arrhythmias. the cardioprotective action of beta-blockers may be explained by their blunting effect on exercise-related changes in qt dispersion.
3236,bcr/abl modifies the kinetics and fidelity of dna double-strand breaks repair in hematopoietic cells.,the oncogenic bcr/abl tyrosine kinase facilitates the repair of dna double-strand breaks (dsbs). we find that after gamma-irradiation bcr/abl-positive leukemia cells accumulate more dsbs in comparison to normal cells. these lesions are efficiently repaired in a time-dependent fashion by bcr/abl-stimulated non-homologous end-joining (nhej) followed by homologous recombination repair (hrr) mechanisms. however  mutations and large deletions were detected in hrr and nhej products  respectively  in bcr/abl-positive leukemia cells. we propose that unfaithful repair of dsbs may contribute to genomic instability in the philadelphia chromosome-positive leukemias.
3238,computational analysis of 3'-ends of ests shows four classes of alternative polyadenylation in human  mouse  and rat.,alternative initiation  splicing  and polyadenylation are key mechanisms used by many organisms to generate diversity among mature mrna transcripts originating from the same transcription unit. while previous computational analyses of alternative polyadenylation have focused on polyadenylation activities within or downstream of the normal 3'-terminal exons  we present the results of the first genome-wide analysis of patterns of alternative polyadenylation in the human  mouse  and rat genomes occurring over the entire transcribed regions of mrnas using 3'-ests with poly(a) tails aligned to genomic sequences. four distinct classes of patterns of alternative polyadenylation result from this analysis: tandem poly(a) sites  composite exons  hidden exons  and truncated exons. we estimate that at least 49% (human)  31% (mouse)  and 28% (rat) of polyadenylated transcription units have alternative polyadenylation. a portion of these alternative polyadenylation events result in new protein isoforms.
3240,successful three-way kidney paired donation with cross-country live donor allograft transport.,providing transplantation opportunities for patients with incompatible live donors through kidney paired donation (kpd) is seen as one of the important strategies for easing the crisis in organ availability. it has been estimated that an additional 1000-2000 transplants per year could be accomplished if a national kpd program were implemented in the united states. while most of these transplants could be arranged within the participants' local or regional area  patients with hard-to-match blood types or broad hla sensitization would benefit from matching across larger geographic areas. in this case  either patients or organs would need to travel in order to obtain maximum benefit from a national program. in this study  we describe how a triple kpd enabled a highly sensitized patient (pra 96%) to receive a well-matched kidney from a live donor on the opposite coast. the kidney was removed in san francisco and transported to baltimore where it was reperfused 8 h later. the patient had prompt function and 1 year later has a serum creatinine of 1.1 mg/dl. this case provides a blueprint for solving some of the complexities that are inherent in the implementation of a national kpd program in a large country like the united states.
3242,a subset of 26s proteasomes is activated at critically low atp concentrations and contributes to myocardial injury during cold ischemia.,molecular mechanisms leading to myocardial injury during warm or cold ischemia are insufficiently understood. although proteasomes are thought to contribute to myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury  their roles during the ischemic period remain elusive. because donor hearts are commonly exposed to prolonged global cold ischemia prior to cardiac transplantation  we evaluated the role and regulation of the proteasome during cold ischemic storage of rat hearts in context of the myocardial atp content. when measured at the actual tissue atp concentration  cardiac proteasome peptidase activity increased by 225% as atp declined during cold ischemic storage of hearts in university of wisconsin (uw) solution for up to 48h. addition of the specific proteasome inhibitor epoxomicin to the uw solution inhibited proteasome activity in the cardiac extracts  significantly reduced edema formation and preserved the ultrastructural integrity of the cardiomyocyte. utilizing purified 20s/26s proteasome enzyme preparations  we demonstrate that this activation can be attributed to a subset of 26s proteasomes which are stable at atp concentrations far below physiological levels  that atp negatively regulates its activity and that maximal activation occurs at atp concentrations in the low mumol/l range. these data suggest that proteasome activation is a pathophysiologically relevant mechanism of cold ischemic myocardial injury. a subset of 26s proteasomes appears to be a cell-destructive protease that is activated as atp levels decline. proteasome inhibition during cold ischemia preserves the ultrastructural integrity of the cardiomyocyte.
3244,risk for breast cancer development determined by mammographic parenchymal pattern.,a classification of risk for developing breast cancer has been devised based solely on the appearance of the breast parenchyma by mammography. four groups of patients were isolated. the study encompassed a five-year period and was done by reviewing the mammograms of all women over the age of 30 who had been examined at hutzel hospital  detroit. the average time of followup would be approximately 2 1/2 years. four groups had an incidence of developing breast cancer of 0.1  0.4  1.7  and 2.2. these parenchymal patterns are described and criteria for their identification are given.
3246,mice deficient in cd4 t cells have only transiently diminished levels of ifn-gamma  yet succumb to tuberculosis.,cd4 t cells are important in the protective immune response against tuberculosis. two mouse models deficient in cd4 t cells were used to examine the mechanism by which these cells participate in protection against mycobacterium tuberculosis challenge. transgenic mice deficient in either mhc class ii or cd4 molecules demonstrated increased susceptibility to m. tuberculosis  compared with wild-type mice. mhc class ii-/- mice were more susceptible than cd4-/- mice  as measured by survival following m. tuberculosis challenge  but the relative resistance of cd4-/- mice did not appear to be due to increased numbers of cd4-8- (double-negative) t cells. analysis of in vivo ifn-gamma production in the lungs of infected mice revealed that both mutant mouse strains were only transiently impaired in their ability to produce ifn-gamma following infection. at 2 wk postinfection  ifn-gamma production  assessed by rt-pcr and intracellular cytokine staining  in the mutant mice was reduced by >50% compared with that in wild-type mice. however  by 4 wk postinfection  both mutant and wild-type mice had similar levels of ifn-gamma mrna and protein production. in cd4 t cell-deficient mice  ifn-gamma production was due to cd8 t cells. thus  the importance of ifn-gamma production by cd4 t cells appears to be early in infection  lending support to the hypothesis that early events in m. tuberculosis infection are crucial determinants of the course of infection.
3248,the value of self-report assessment of adherence  rhinitis and smoking in relation to asthma control.,aims to explore the utility of self-report measures of inhaled corticosteroid (ics) adherence  degree of rhinitis and smoking status and their association with asthma control. methods patients prescribed ics for asthma at 85 uk practices were sent validated questionnaire measures of control (asthma control questionnaire; acq) and adherence (medication adherence report scale)  a two-item measure of smoking status  and a single-item measure of rhinitis. results complete anonymised questionnaires were available for 3916 participants. poor asthma control (acq >1.5) was associated with reported rhinitis (or = 4.62; 95% ci: 3.71-5.77)  smoking (or = 4.33; 95% ci: 3.58-5.23) and low adherence to ics (or = 1.35; 95% ci: 1.18-1.55). the degree of rhinitis was important  with those reporting severe rhinitis exhibiting the worst asthma control  followed by those reporting mild rhinitis and then those reporting no rhinitis symptoms (f(2  3913)=128.7  p<.001). there was a relationship between the number of cigarettes smoked each day and asthma control (f(5 655)=6.08  p<.001). conclusions poor asthma control is associated with self-reported rhinitis  smoking and low medication adherence. these potentially modifiable predictors of poor asthma control can be identified through a brief self-report questionnaire  used routinely as part of an asthma review.
3250,hypoxia in cancer: significance and impact on clinical outcome,hypoxia  a characteristic feature of locally advanced solid tumors  has emerged as a pivotal factor of the tumor (patho-)physiome since it can promote tumor progression and resistance to therapy. hypoxia represents a “janus face” in tumor biology because (a) it is associated with restrained proliferation  differentiation  necrosis or apoptosis  and (b) it can also lead to the development of an aggressive phenotype. independent of standard prognostic factors  such as tumor stage and nodal status  hypoxia has been suggested as an adverse prognostic factor for patient outcome. studies of tumor hypoxia involving the direct assessment of the oxygenation status have suggested worse disease-free survival for patients with hypoxic cervical cancers or soft tissue sarcomas. in head & neck cancers the studies suggest that hypoxia is prognostic for survival and local control. technical limitations of the direct o2 sensing technique have prompted the use of surrogate markers for tumor hypoxia  such as hypoxia-related endogenous proteins (e.g.  hif-1α  glut-1  ca ix) or exogenous bioreductive drugs. in many—albeit not in all—studies endogenous markers showed prognostic significance for patient outcome. the prognostic relevance of exogenous markers  however  appears to be limited. noninvasive assessment of hypoxia using imaging techniques can be achieved with pet or spect detection of radiolabeled tracers or with mri techniques (e.g.  bold). clinical experience with these methods regarding patient prognosis is so far only limited. in the clinical studies performed up until now  the lack of standardized treatment protocols  inconsistencies of the endpoints characterizing the oxygenation status and methodological differences (e.g.  different immunohistochemical staining procedures) may compromise the power of the prognostic parameter used.
3252,viruses and micrornas,the discovery of rna interference and cellular micrornas (mirnas) has not only affected how biological research is conducted but also revealed an entirely new level of post-transcriptional gene regulation. here  i discuss the potential functions of the virally encoded mirnas recently identified in several pathogenic human viruses and propose that cellular mirnas may have had a substantial effect on viral evolution and may continue to influence the in vivo tissue tropism of viruses. our increasing knowledge of the role and importance of virally encoded mirnas will probably offer new insights into how viruses that establish latent infections  such as herpesviruses  avoid elimination by the host innate or adaptive immune system. research into viral mirna function might also suggest new approaches for treating some virally induced diseases.
3254,the lim domain-containing homeo box gene xlim-1 is expressed specifically in the organizer region of xenopus gastrula embryos.,a novel cysteine-rich motif  named lim  has been identified in the homeo box genes lin-11  isl-1  and mec-3; the mec-3 and lin-11 genes determine cell lineages in caenorhabditis elegans. we isolated lim class homeo box genes from xenopus laevis that are closely related to lin-11 and mec-3 in the lim and homeo domains. this paper deals with one of these genes  xlim-1. xlim-1 mrna is found at low abundance in the unfertilized egg  has a major expression phase at the gastrula stage  decreases  and rises again during the tadpole stage. in adult tissues the brain shows the highest abundance  by far  of xlim-1 mrna. the maternal and late expression phases of the xlim-1 gene suggest that it has multiple functions at different stages of the xenopus life cycle. in the gastrula embryo  xlim-1 mrna is localized in the dorsal lip and the dorsal mesoderm  that is  in the region of spemann's organizer. explant experiments showed that xlim-1 mrna is induced by the mesoderm-inducer activin a and by retinoic acid  which is not a mesoderm inducer but affects patterning during xenopus embryogenesis; application of activin a and retinoic acid together results in synergistic induction. the structure  inducibility  and localized expression in the organizer of the xlim-1 gene suggest that it has a role in establishing body pattern during gastrulation.
3256,microarrays for the study of viral gene expression during human cytomegalovirus latent infection.,human cytomegalovirus (hcmv) is one of the largest known dna viruses. it is ubiquitous  and following resolution of primary productive infection  it persists in the human host by establishing a lifelong latent infection in myeloid lineage cells such as monocytes and their progenitors. most adults with hcmv infection are healthy but it can cause neurologic deficits in infants  and remains an important cause of morbidity and mortality in the immunosuppressed patient. microarray-based studies of hcmv have provided useful information about genes that are transcriptionally active during both productive and latent phases of infection. this chapter describes how to study genes in hcmv using microarrays and two cell types (productively infected human foreskin fibroblasts  and latently infected primary human myeloid progenitor cells).
3258,tatc is a specificity determinant for protein secretion via the twin-arginine translocation pathway.,the recent discovery of a ubiquitous translocation pathway  specifically required for proteins with a twin-arginine motif in their signal peptide  has focused interest on its membrane-bound components  one of which is known as tatc. unlike most organisms of which the genome has been sequenced completely  the gram-positive eubacterium bacillus subtilis contains two tatc-like genes denoted tatcd and tatcy. the corresponding tatcd and tatcy proteins have the potential to be involved in the translocation of 27 proteins with putative twin-arginine signal peptides of which approximately 6-14 are likely to be secreted into the growth medium. using a proteomic approach  we show that phod of b. subtilis  a phosphodiesterase belonging to a novel protein family of which all known members are synthesized with typical twin-arginine signal peptides  is secreted via the twin-arginine translocation pathway. strikingly  tatcd is of major importance for the secretion of phod  whereas tatcy is not required for this process. thus  tatc appears to be a specificity determinant for protein secretion via the tat pathway. based on our observations  we hypothesize that the tatc-determined pathway specificity is based on specific interactions between tatc-like proteins and other pathway components  such as tata  of which three paralogues are present in b. subtilis.
3260,review article: prebiotics in the gastrointestinal tract.,background prebiotics are short-chain carbohydrates that alter the composition  or metabolism  of the gut microbiota in a beneficial manner. it is therefore expected that prebiotics will improve health in a way similar to probiotics  whilst at the same time being cheaper  and carrying less risk and being easier to incorporate into the diet than probiotics. aim to review published evidence for prebiotic effects on gut function and human health. methods we searched the science citation index with the terms prebiotic  microbiota  gut bacteria  large intestine  mucosa  bowel habit  constipation  diarrhoea  inflammatory bowel disease  crohn's disease  ulcerative colitis  pouchitis  calcium and cancer  focussing principally on studies in humans and reports in the english language. search of the cochrane library did not identify any clinical study or meta-analysis on this topic. results three prebiotics  oligofructose  galacto-oligosaccharides and lactulose  clearly alter the balance of the large bowel microbiota by increasing bifidobacteria and lactobacillus numbers. these carbohydrates are fermented and give rise to short-chain fatty acid and intestinal gas; however  effects on bowel habit are relatively small. randomized-controlled trials of their effect in a clinical context are few  although animal studies show anti-inflammatory effects in inflammatory bowel disease  while calcium absorption is increased. conclusions it is still early days for prebiotics  but they offer the potential to modify the gut microbial balance in such a way as to bring direct health benefits cheaply and safely.
3262,variability in risk of gastrointestinal complications with individual non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs: results of a collaborative meta-analysis.,objective to compare the relative risks of serious gastrointestinal complications reported with individual non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. design systematic review of controlled epidemiological studies that found a relation between use of the drugs and admission to hospital for haemorrhage or perforation. setting hospital and community based case-control and cohort studies. main outcome measures (a) estimated relative risks of gastrointestinal complications with use of individual drugs  exposure to ibuprofen being used as reference; (b) a ranking that best summarised the sequence of relative risks observed in the studies. results 12 studies met the inclusion criteria. 11 provided comparative data on ibuprofen and other drugs. ibuprofen ranked lowest or equal lowest for risk in 10 of the 11 studies. pooled relative risks calculated with exposure to ibuprofen used as reference were all significantly greater than 1.0 (interval of point estimates 1.6 to 9.2). overall  ibuprofen was associated with the lowest relative risk  followed by diclofenac. azapropazone  tolmetin  ketoprofen  and piroxicam ranked highest for risk and indomethacin  naproxen  sulindac  and aspirin occupied intermediate positions. higher doses of ibuprofen were associated with relative risks similar to those with naproxen and indomethacin. conclusions the low risk of serious gastrointestinal complications with ibuprofen seems to be attributable mainly to the low doses of the drug used in clinical practice. in higher doses ibuprofen is associated with a similar risk to other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. use of low risk drugs in low dosage as first line treatment would substantially reduce the morbidity and mortality due to serious gastrointestinal toxicity from these drugs.
3264,a novel family of sequence-specific endoribonucleases associated with the clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats.,clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (crisprs) together with the associated cas proteins protect microbial cells from invasion by foreign genetic elements using presently unknown molecular mechanisms. all crispr systems contain proteins of the cas2 family  suggesting that these uncharacterized proteins play a central role in this process. here we show that the cas2 proteins represent a novel family of endoribonucleases. six purified cas2 proteins from diverse organisms cleaved single-stranded rnas preferentially within u-rich regions. a representative cas2 enzyme  sso1404 from sulfolobus solfataricus  cleaved the phosphodiester linkage on the 3'-side and generated 5'-phosphate- and 3'-hydroxyl-terminated oligonucleotides. the crystal structure of sso1404 was solved at 1.6a resolution revealing the first ribonuclease with a ferredoxin-like fold. mutagenesis of sso1404 identified six residues (tyr-9  asp-10  arg-17  arg-19  arg-31  and phe-37) that are important for enzymatic activity and suggested that asp-10 might be the principal catalytic residue. thus  cas2 proteins are sequence-specific endoribonucleases  and we propose that their role in the crispr-mediated anti-phage defense might involve degradation of phage or cellular mrnas.
3266,genetic and environmental determinants of 25-hydroxyvitamin d and 1 25-dihydroxyvitamin d levels in hispanic and african americans.,context vitamin d deficiency is associated with many adverse health outcomes  yet little is known about the genetic epidemiology of vitamin d or its metabolites. objective our objective was to examine the relationship among three vitamin d-related genes and levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin d [25(oh)d] and 1 25-dihydroxyvitamin d [1 25(oh)2d] in hispanics (has) and african americans (aas). design and setting the cross-sectional insulin resistance atherosclerosis family study recruited and examined subjects in: los angeles  california (aas; 513 individuals from 42 families); san luis valley (slv)  colorado (has; 513 individuals from 30 families); and san antonio (sa)  texas (has; 504 individuals from 58 families). main outcome measures plasma levels of 25(oh)d and 1 25(oh)2d were measured. results levels of 25(oh)d were highest in slv-has [18.3 +/- 7.7 ng/ml (45.7 +/- 19.2 nmol/liter)]  lower in sa-has [14.6 +/- 6.4 ng/ml (36.4 +/- 16.0 nmol/liter)]  and lowest in aas [11.0 +/- 5.4 ng/ml (27.5 +/- 13.5 nmol/liter)]. levels of 1 25(oh)2d were similar in aas [43.5 +/- 13.9 pg/ml (113.1 +/- 36.1 pmol/liter)] and slv-has [43.2 +/- 13.3 pg/ml (112.3 +/- 34.6 pmol/liter)]  but higher in sa-has [48.6 +/- 17.0 pg/ml (126.4 +/- 44.2 pmol/liter)]. after adjusting for gender and age within the site  two single nucleotide polymorphisms (snps) in the vitamin d binding protein gene (dbp)  rs4588 and rs7041  were associated with 25(oh)d  and one snp in the dbp  rs4588  was associated with 1 25(oh)2d at all three study centers. conclusions snps in the dbp are associated with levels of 25(oh)d and 1 25(oh)2d in ha and aa participants in the insulin resistance atherosclerosis family study.
3268,rna editing in brain controls a determinant of ion flow in glutamate-gated channels.,l-glutamate  the principal excitatory transmitter in the brain  gates ion channels mediating fast neurotransmission. subunit components of two related classes of glutamate receptor channels have been characterized by cdna cloning and shown to carry either an arginine or a glutamine residue in a defined position of their putative channel-forming segment. the arginine residue in this segment profoundly alters  and dominates  the properties of ion flow  as demonstrated for one channel class. we now show that the genomic dna sequences encoding the particular channel segment of all subunits harbor a glutamine codon (cag)  even though an arginine codon (cgg) is found in mrnas of three subunits. multiple genes and alternative exons were excluded as sources for the arginine codon; hence  we propose that transcripts for three subunits are altered by rna editing. this process apparently edits subunit transcripts of the two glutamate receptor classes with different efficiency and selectivity.
3270,caloric restriction delays age-related methylation drift,in mammals  caloric restriction consistently results in extended lifespan. epigenetic information encoded by dna methylation is tightly regulated  but shows a striking drift associated with age that includes both gains and losses of dna methylation at various sites. here  we report that epigenetic drift is conserved across species and the rate of drift correlates with lifespan when comparing mice  rhesus monkeys  and humans. twenty-two to 30-year-old rhesus monkeys exposed to 30% caloric restriction since 7-14 years of age showed attenuation of age-related methylation drift compared to ad libitum-fed controls such that their blood methylation age appeared 7 years younger than their chronologic age. even more pronounced effects were seen in 2.7-3.2-year-old mice exposed to 40% caloric restriction starting at 0.3 years of age. the effects of caloric restriction on dna methylation were detectable across different tissues and correlated with gene expression. we propose that epigenetic drift is a determinant of lifespan in mammals. caloric restriction has been shown to increase lifespan in mammals. here  the authors provide evidence that age-related methylation drift correlates with lifespan and that caloric restriction in mice and rhesus monkeys results in attenuation of age-related methylation drift.
3272,the long non-coding rna h19-derived mir-675 modulates human gastric cancer cell proliferation by targeting tumor suppressor runx1.,the lncrna h19 has been recently shown to be upregulated and play important roles in gastric cancer tumorigenesis. however  the precise molecular mechanism of h19 and its mature product mir-675 in the carcinogenesis of gastric cancer remains unclear. in this study  we found that mir-675 was positively expressed with h19 and was a pivotal mediator in h19-induced gastric cancer cell growth promotion. subsequently  the tumor suppressor runt domain transcription factor1 (runx1) was confirmed to be a direct target of mir-675 using a luciferase reporter assay and western blotting analyses. a series of rescue assays indicated that runx1 mediated h19/mir-67-induced gastric cancer cell phenotypic changes. moreover  the inverse relationship between the expression of runx1 and h19/mir-675 was also revealed in gastric cancer tissues and gastric cancer cell lines. taken together  our study demonstrated that the novel pathway h19/mir-675/runx1 regulates gastric cancer development and may serve as a potential target for gastric cancer therapy.
3274,mechanism of no-mediated oxidative and nitrative dna damage in hamsters infected with opisthorchis viverrini: a model of inflammation-mediated carcinogenesis.,inflammation mediated by infection is an important factor causing carcinogenesis. opisthorchis viverrini (ov) infection is a risk factor of cholangiocarcinoma (chca)  probably through chronic inflammation. formation of 8-nitroguanine and 8-oxo-7 8-dihydro-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-oxodg)  and expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (inos) and heme oxygenase-1 (ho-1) were assessed in the liver of hamsters infected with ov. we newly produced specific anti-8-nitroguanine antibody without cross-reaction. double immunofluorescence staining revealed that 8-oxodg and 8-nitroguanine were formed mainly in the same inflammatory cells and epithelium of bile ducts from day 7 and showed the strongest immunoreactivity on days 21 and 30  respectively. it is noteworthy that 8-oxodg and 8-nitroguanine still remained in epithelium of bile ducts on day 180  although amount of alanine aminotransferase activity returned to normal level. a time course of 8-nitroguanine was associated with inos expression. furthermore  this study demonstrated that ho-1 expression and subsequent iron accumulation may be involved in enhancement of oxidative dna damage in epithelium of small bile ducts. in conclusion  nitrative and oxidative dna damage via inos expression in hamsters infected with ov may participate in chca carcinogenesis.
3276,klf4-dependent phenotypic modulation of smooth muscle cells has a key role in atherosclerotic plaque pathogenesis,previous studies investigating the role of smooth muscle cells (smcs) and macrophages in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis have provided controversial results owing to the use of unreliable methods for clearly identifying each of these cell types. here  using myh11-creert2 rosa floxed stop eyfp apoe−/− mice to perform smc lineage tracing  we find that traditional methods for detecting smcs based on immunostaining for smc markers fail to detect >80% of smc-derived cells within advanced atherosclerotic lesions. these unidentified smc-derived cells exhibit phenotypes of other cell lineages  including macrophages and mesenchymal stem cells (mscs). smc-specific conditional knockout of krüppel-like factor 4 (klf4) resulted in reduced numbers of smc-derived msc- and macrophage-like cells  a marked reduction in lesion size  and increases in multiple indices of plaque stability  including an increase in fibrous cap thickness as compared to wild-type controls. on the basis of in vivo klf4 chromatin immunoprecipitation–sequencing (chip-seq) analyses and studies of cholesterol-treated cultured smcs  we identified >800 klf4 target genes  including many that regulate pro-inflammatory responses of smcs. our findings indicate that the contribution of smcs to atherosclerotic plaques has been greatly underestimated  and that klf4-dependent transitions in smc phenotype are critical in lesion pathogenesis.
3278,pioglitazone prevents tau oligomerization.,tau aggregation and amyloid β protein (aβ) deposition are the main causes of alzheimer's disease (ad). peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (pparγ) activation modulates aβ production. to test whether the pparγ agonist pioglitazone (pio) is also effective in preventing tau aggregation in ad  we used a cellular model in which wild-type tau protein (4r0n) is overexpressed (m1c cells) (hamano et al.  2012) as well as primary neuronal cultures. pio reduced both phosphorylated and total tau levels  and inactivated glycogen synthase kinase 3β  a major tau kinase  associated with activation of akt. in addition  pio decreased cleaved caspase3 and c-terminal truncated tau species by caspase  which is expected to decrease tau aggregation. a fractionation study showed that pio reduced high molecular-weight (120 kda)  oligomeric tau species in tris insoluble  sarkosyl-soluble fractions. tau decrease was reversed by adding gw9662  a pparγ antagonist. together  our current results support the idea that pparγ agonists may be useful therapeutic agents for ad.
3280,traceability of biologicals: present challenges in pharmacovigilance.,introduction traceability is important in the postmarketing surveillance of biologicals  since changes in the manufacturing process may give rise to product- or batch-specific risks. with the expected expansion of the biosimilar market  there have been concerns about the ability to trace individual products within pharmacovigilance databases. areas covered the authors discuss the present challenges in the traceability of biologicals in relation to pharmacovigilance  by exploring the processes involved in ensuring traceability. they explore both the existing systems that are in place for the recording of exposure information in clinical practice  as well as the critical steps involved in the transfer of exposure data to various pharmacovigilance databases. expert opinion the existing systems ensure the traceability of biologicals down to the manufacturer within pharmacy records  but do not support the routine recording of batch information. expected changes in supply chain standards provide opportunities to systematically record detailed exposure information. spontaneous reporting systems are the most vulnerable link in ensuring traceability  due to the manual nature of data transfer. efforts to improve the traceability should  in the short term  be focused toward encouraging health professionals and patients to systematically record and report detailed exposure information. long-term solutions lie in expanding the accessibility to  and increasing the electronic exchange of exposure data.
3282,a core klf circuitry regulates self-renewal of embryonic stem cells,embryonic stem (es) cells are unique in their ability to self-renew indefinitely and maintain pluripotency. these properties require transcription factors that specify the gene expression programme of es cells. it has been possible to reverse the highly differentiated state of somatic cells back to a pluripotent state with a combination of four transcription factors: klf4 is one of the reprogramming factors required  in conjunction with oct4  sox2 and c-myc. maintenance of self-renewal and pluripotency of es cells requires oct4  sox2 and c-myc  but klf4 is dispensable. here  we show that krüppel-like factors are required for the self-renewal of es cells. simultaneous depletion of klf2  klf4 and klf5 lead to es cell differentiation. chromatin immunoprecipitation coupled to microarray assay reveals that these klf proteins share many common targets of nanog  suggesting a close functional relationship between these factors. expression analysis after triple rna interference (rnai) of the klfs shows that they regulate key pluripotency genes  such as nanog. taken together  our study provides new insight into how the core klf circuitry integrates into the nanog transcriptional network to specify gene expression that is unique to es cells.
3284,autophagy controls salmonella infection in response to damage to the salmonella-containing vacuole.,salmonella enterica serovar typhimurium (s. typhimurium) is a facultative intracellular pathogen that causes disease in a variety of hosts. s. typhimurium actively invade host cells and typically reside within a membrane-bound compartment called the salmonella-containing vacuole (scv). the bacteria modify the fate of the scv using two independent type iii secretion systems (ttss). ttss are known to damage eukaryotic cell membranes and s. typhimurium has been suggested to damage the scv using its salmonella pathogenicity island (spi)-1 encoded ttss. here we show that this damage gives rise to an intracellular bacterial population targeted by the autophagy system during in vitro infection. approximately 20% of intracellular s. typhimurium colocalized with the autophagy marker gfp-lc3 at 1 h postinfection. autophagy of s. typhimurium was dependent upon the spi-1 ttss and bacterial protein synthesis. bacteria targeted by the autophagy system were often associated with ubiquitinated proteins  indicating their exposure to the cytosol. surprisingly  these bacteria also colocalized with scv markers. autophagy-deficient (atg5-/-) cells were more permissive for intracellular growth by s. typhimurium than normal cells  allowing increased bacterial growth in the cytosol. we propose a model in which the host autophagy system targets bacteria in scvs damaged by the spi-1 ttss. this serves to retain intracellular s. typhimurium within vacuoles early after infection to protect the cytosol from bacterial colonization. our findings support a role for autophagy in innate immunity and demonstrate that salmonella infection is a powerful model to study the autophagy process.
3286,disrupted-in-schizophrenia 1 and neuregulin 1 are required for the specification of oligodendrocytes and neurones in the zebrafish brain.,schizophrenia may arise from subtle abnormalities in brain development due to alterations in the functions of candidate susceptibility genes such as disrupted-in-schizophrenia 1 (disc1) and neuregulin 1 (nrg1). to provide novel insights into the functions of disc1 in brain development  we mapped the expression of zebrafish disc1 and set out to characterize its role in early embryonic development using morpholino antisense methods. these studies revealed a critical requirement for disc1 in oligodendrocyte development by promoting specification of olig2-positive cells in the hindbrain and other brain regions. since nrg1 has well-documented roles in myelination  we also analyzed the roles of nrg1 and erbb signalling in zebrafish brain development and we observed strikingly similar defects to those seen in disc1 morphant embryos. in addition to their effects on oligodendrocyte development  knock-down of disc1 or nrg1 caused near total loss of olig2-positive cerebellar neurones  but caused no apparent loss of spinal motor neurones. these findings suggest that disc1 and nrg1 function in common or related pathways controlling development of oligodendrocytes and neurones from olig2-expressing precursor cells. like disc1 and nrg1  olig2 and erbb4 are promising candidate susceptibility genes for schizophrenia. hence our findings in the zebrafish embryo suggest that hitherto unappreciated neurodevelopmental connections may exist between key human schizophrenia susceptibility genes. these connections could be investigated in disc1 and nrg1 mouse models and in genetically defined groups of patients in order to determine whether they are relevant to the pathobiology of schizophrenia. genbank accession number for danio rerio disc1: eu273350.
3288,pp2a regulates tau phosphorylation directly and also indirectly via activating gsk-3beta.,abnormal hyperphosphorylation of tau appears to be crucial in neurofibrillary degeneration in alzheimer's disease (ad). previous studies suggest that a down-regulation of protein phosphatase 2a (pp2a)  the major tau phosphatase in human brain  contributes to tau hyperphosphorylation in ad. however  the effects of pp2a down-regulation on site-specific tau hyperphosphorylation is not well understood. in the present study  we showed that pp2a dephosphorylated tau at several phosphorylation sites with different efficiencies. among the sites studied  thr205  thr212  ser214  and ser262 were the most favorable sites  and ser199 and ser404 were the least favorable sites for pp2a in vitro. inhibition of pp2a with okadaic acid in metabolically active rat brain slices caused inhibition of glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (gsk-3beta) via an increase in its phosphorylation at ser9. gsk-3beta phosphorylated tau at many sites  with ser199  thr205  and ser396 being the most favorable sites in cells. the overall alterations in tau phosphorylation induced by pp2a inhibition were the result of the combined effects of both reduced tau dephosphorylation due to pp2a inhibition directly and reduced phosphorylation by gsk-3beta due to its inhibition. because the impacts of tau phosphorylation on its biological activity and on neurofibrillary degeneration are site-specific  this study provides a new insight into the role of pp2a down-regulation in neurofibrillary degeneration in ad.
3290,how nascent phagosomes mature to become phagolysosomes.,phagocytosis mediates the clearance of apoptotic bodies and also the elimination of microbial pathogens. the nascent phagocytic vacuole formed upon particle engulfment lacks microbicidal and degradative activity. these capabilities are acquired as the phagosome undergoes maturation; a progressive remodeling of its membrane and contents that culminates in the formation of phagolysosomes. maturation entails orderly sequential fusion of the phagosomal vacuole with specialized endocytic and secretory compartments. concomitantly  the phagosomal membrane undergoes both inward and outward vesiculation and tubulation followed by fission  thereby recycling components and maintaining its overall size. here  we summarize what is known about the molecular machinery that governs this complex metamorphosis of phagosome maturation.
3292,tuberculosis mortality in england and wales during 1982-1992: its association with poverty  ethnicity and aids.,this paper seeks to establish the strength of association between contemporary tuberculosis (tb) in england and wales and several potential aetiological factors. it presents an ecological analysis of standardised annual tb mortality rates for the 403 local authority districts between 1982 and 1992  disaggregated by age and sex. social  demographic and ethnicity measures from the 1981 and 1991 censuses and standardised annual aids-related mortality rates for young men are used to calculate poisson regression models. a strong association was found between all tb mortality groups and overcrowding at the household level. for women  no other measures improved the explanatory power of the models. in multiple regressions  both poverty and aids-related mortality explained additional variation in the model for younger men. the link between ethnicity and tuberculosis notifications was not reflected in this analysis of mortality. for all groups no evidence of a positive relationship with ethnicity was found  once overcrowding had been accounted for. the significance of household as opposed to district level crowding suggests that prolonged contact is required for disease transmission. regression analysis indicates that it is the overcrowding and poverty among ethnic populations that is significant for their tuberculosis mortality. the fact that the relationship between aids and tb is confined to the group most typical of aids patients provides evidence that aids has little influence on the level of tuberculosis mortality in the wider population. explanations for the observed relationship include preferential certification  migration for treatment and shortcomings in health care provision.
3294,the kinase tak1 integrates antigen and cytokine receptor signaling for t cell development  survival and function,the kinase tak1 is critical for innate and b cell immunity. the function of tak1 in t cells is unclear  however. we show here that t cell–specific deletion of the gene encoding tak1 resulted in reduced development of thymocytes  especially of regulatory t cells expressing the transcription factor foxp3. in mature thymocytes  tak1 was required for interleukin 7–mediated survival and t cell receptor–dependent activation of transcription factor nf-κb and the kinase jnk. in effector t cells  tak1 was dispensable for t cell receptor–dependent nf-κb activation and cytokine production  but was important for proliferation and activation of the kinase p38 in response to interleukins 2  7 and 15. thus  tak1 is essential for the integration of t cell receptor and cytokine signals to regulate the development  survival and function of t cells.
3296,renal disease and pregnancy,pregnancy in women with different renal diseases has important consequences for the developing fetus and maternal health. kidneys and the urinary tract have to adapt to the pregnancy status and therefore suffer significant anatomical  hemodynamic and endocrine changes. failure to adapt can aggravate the preexisting maternal disease and can also create suboptimal environment for fetal development and increase the risk of obstetric complications. knowledge and correct interpretation of the renal functional tests is necessary for the modern obstetrician  avoiding an incorrect diagnosis for renal disease where only specific renal changes during pregnancy are present  but meanwhile a correct evaluation of the renal function and changes can detect a pathology that can aggravate both the mother’s and the baby’s condition. improvement and better understanding of the renal pathophysiology in pregnancy made possible that pregnant woman look forward for a good outcome  including here also the women with renal transplant. nowadays is underlined the concept of multidisciplinary teamwork  a very important concept of modern medicine. the obstetrician should consider nephrologists as key players in the team and in our opinion should refer to them the pregnant women for a routine check-up of the renal status in the 2nd or beginning of 3rd trimester by ultrasound  beside the usual blood and urine analysis. the nephrologists and urologists should be involved in the management of severe medical conditions  such as preeclampsia  acute and chronic renal failure and never the less in the complex management of dialysis or renal transplant patients. in pregnancy it can be encountered several renal diseases  some of them preexisting the pregnancy and other developed or being direct influenced by pregnancy. this chapter will discuss briefly the basic evaluation of renal status in order to present and better understand the acute and chronic renal disorders in pregnancy. the chapter will focus on the most common preexisting diseases in pregnancy such as: chronic glomerulonephritis  secondary glomerular nephropathies  interstitial nephropathies (chronic pyelonephritis  renal tuberculosis)  diabetes nephropathy  unique surgical kidney  chronic renal failure. from the renal diseases directly influenced by pregnancy it will be discussed: asymptomatic bacteriuria  symptomatic urinary infection  urolithiasis and acute renal failure in pregnancy. it will be presented also the management of dialysis in pregnancy and pregnant women with renal transplant.
3298,the aging epigenome.,during aging  the mechanisms that normally maintain health and stress resistance strikingly decline  resulting in decrepitude  frailty  and ultimately death. exactly when and how this decline occurs is unknown. changes in transcriptional networks and chromatin state lie at the heart of age-dependent decline. these epigenomic changes are not only observed during aging but also profoundly affect cellular function and stress resistance  thereby contributing to the progression of aging. we propose that the dysregulation of transcriptional and chromatin networks is a crucial component of aging. understanding age-dependent epigenomic changes will yield key insights into how aging begins and progresses and should lead to the development of new therapeutics that delay or even reverse aging and age-related diseases.
3300,secreted frizzled-related protein 5 diminishes cardiac inflammation and protects the heart from ischemia/reperfusion injury.,wnt signaling has diverse actions in cardiovascular development and disease processes. secreted frizzled-related protein 5 (sfrp5) has been shown to function as an extracellular inhibitor of non-canonical wnt signaling that is expressed at relatively high levels in white adipose tissue. the aim of this study was to investigate the role of sfrp5 in the heart under ischemic stress. sfrp5 ko and wt mice were subjected to ischemia/reperfusion (i/r). although sfrp5-ko mice exhibited no detectable phenotype when compared with wt control at baseline  they displayed larger infarct sizes  enhanced cardiac myocyte apoptosis  and diminished cardiac function following i/r. the ischemic lesions of sfrp5-ko mice had greater infiltration of wnt5a-positive macrophages and greater inflammatory cytokine and chemokine gene expression when compared with wt mice. in bone marrow-derived macrophages  wnt5a promoted jnk activation and increased inflammatory gene expression  whereas treatment with sfrp5 blocked these effects. these results indicate that sfrp5 functions to antagonize inflammatory responses after i/r in the heart  possibly through a mechanism involving non-canonical wnt5a/jnk signaling.
3302,yqhc regulates transcription of the adjacent escherichia coli genes yqhd and dkga that are involved in furfural tolerance,previous results have demonstrated that the silencing of adjacent genes encoding nadph-dependent furfural oxidoreductases (yqhd dkga) is responsible for increased furfural tolerance in an e. coli strain emfr9 [miller et al.  appl environ microbiol 75:4315–4323  2009]. this gene silencing is now reported to result from the spontaneous insertion of an is10 into the coding region of yqhc  an upstream gene. yqhc shares homology with transcriptional regulators belonging to the arac/xyls family and was shown to act as a positive regulator of the adjacent operon encoding yqhd and dkga. regulation was demonstrated by constructing a chromosomal deletion of yqhc  a firefly luciferase reporter plasmid for yqhc  and by a direct comparison of furfural resistance and nadph-dependent furfural reductase activity. closely related bacteria contain yqhc  yqhd  and dkga orthologs in the same arrangement as in e. coli ly180. orthologs of yqhc are also present in more distantly related gram-negative bacteria. disruption of yqhc offers a useful approach to increase furfural tolerance in bacteria.
3304,immediate effects of droperidol,the subjective and behavioural responses of 20 healthy volunteers taking droperidol 5 mg as part of a cognitive challenge programme were catalogued. some form of akathisia was universally experienced. half of the subjects were dysphoric  but there appeared to be a number of different inputs to their dysphoria and a range of other effects were noted  including sedation  dissociative experiences  alterations in sensation and subtle changes in physiognomy. the duration of these effects varied from a few hours to over a week. in the acute phase  insight as to the origin of what was happening was mixed. the results have implications for the interpretation of cognitive challenge tests  the nature of akathisia  clinical therapeutics and drug development. © 1998 john wiley & sons  ltd.
3306,plzf regulates limb and axial skeletal patterning,the promyelocytic leukaemia zinc finger (plzf) protein (encoded by the gene zfp145) belongs to the poz/zinc-finger family of transcription factors. here we generate zfp145−/− mice and show that plzf is essential for patterning of the limb and axial skeleton. plzf inactivation results in patterning defects affecting all skeletal structures of the limb  including homeotic transformations of anterior skeletal elements into posterior structures. we demonstrate that plzf acts as a growth-inhibitory and pro-apoptotic factor in the limb bud. the expression of members of the abdominal b (abdb) hox gene complex  as well as genes encoding bone morphogenetic proteins (bmps)  is altered in the developing limb of zfp145−/− mice. plzf regulates the expression of these genes in the absence of aberrant polarizing activity and independently of known patterning genes. zfp145−/− mice also exhibit anterior-directed homeotic transformation throughout the axial skeleton with associated alterations in hox gene expression. plzf is therefore a mediator of anterior-to-posterior (ap) patterning in both the axial and appendicular skeleton and acts as a regulator of hox gene expression.
3308,drug-induced thrombocytopenia: pathogenesis  evaluation  and management.,although drugs are a common cause of acute immune-mediated thrombocytopenia in adults  the drug etiology is often initially unrecognized. most cases of drug-induced thrombocytopenia (ditp) are caused by drug-dependent antibodies that are specific for the drug structure and bind tightly to platelets by their fab regions but only in the presence of the drug. a comprehensive database of 1301 published reports describing 317 drugs  available at www.ouhsc.edu/platelets  provides information on the level of evidence for a causal relation to thrombocytopenia. typically  ditp occurs 1 to 2 weeks after beginning a new drug or suddenly after a single dose when a drug has previously been taken intermittently. however  severe thrombocytopenia can occur immediately after the first administration of antithrombotic agents that block fibrinogen binding to platelet gp iib-iiia  such as abciximab  tirofiban  and eptifibatide. recovery from ditp usually begins within 1 to 2 days of stopping the drug and is typically complete within a week. drug-dependent antibodies can persist for many years; therefore  it is important that the drug etiology be confirmed and the drug be avoided thereafter.
3310,expression of the angiogenic factors vascular endothelial cell growth factor  acidic and basic fibroblast growth factor  tumor growth factor beta-1  platelet-derived endothelial cell growth factor  placenta growth factor  and pleiotrophin in human primary breast cancer and its relation to angiogenes,angiogenesis is a significant prognostic factor in breast cancer  but the factors that control angiogenesis in vivo are not well defined. multiple angiogenic polypeptides are known  and we have determined the expression of seven of these in primary human breast cancers; the relationship of expression to estrogen receptor and vascular density was also examined. vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) and its four isoforms (121  165  189  and 206 amino acids)  transforming growth factor (tgf)-beta1  pleiotrophin  acidic and basic fibroblast growth factor (fgf)  placental growth factor  and thymidine phosphorylase (platelet-derived endothelial cell growth factor) were quantitated by rnase protection analysis. beta-fgf was also measured by elisa. the estrogen receptor (er)  epidermal growth factor receptor  and vascular density were analyzed in 64 primary breast cancers. all tumors expressed at least six different vascular growth factors. vegf was most abundant  and the transcript for the 121-amino acid form predominated. other angiogenic factors expressed at high levels were thymidine phosphorylase and tgf-beta1. expression of most of the angiogenic factors did not correlate with that of er or vascular density. however  thymidine phosphorylase did  with a correlation coefficient of 0.3 (p = 0.03). there were significant associations of pleiotrophin with acidic fgf expression (p = 0.001) and tgf-beta with platelet-derived endothelial cell growth factor expression (p = 0.001). thus  angiogenesis may involve a coordinate regulation of some vascular growth factors. high vegf expression correlated with poor prognosis in univariate analysis (p = 0.03)  as did er and epidermal growth factor receptor expression. basic fgf was also assessed by elisa and was more highly expressed in tumors than normal breast tissues (median  346 microg/ml cytosol; range  54-1323 versus median  149; range  32-509; p = 0.01). implications for therapy are that broad spectrum agents that block features common to these factors may be useful (e.g.  antagonism of heparin-binding activity agents)  because so many angiogenic factors are expressed. inhibiting endothelial migration or agents directly toxic to endothelium would be of value in a combined approach to therapy.
3312,origin and functions of tissue macrophages.,macrophages are distributed in tissues throughout the body and contribute to both homeostasis and disease. recently  it has become evident that most adult tissue macrophages originate during embryonic development and not from circulating monocytes. each tissue has its own composition of embryonically derived and adult-derived macrophages  but it is unclear whether macrophages of distinct origins are functionally interchangeable or have unique roles at steady state. this new understanding also prompts reconsideration of the function of circulating monocytes. classical ly6c(hi) monocytes patrol the extravascular space in resting organs  and ly6c(lo) nonclassical monocytes patrol the vasculature. inflammation triggers monocytes to differentiate into macrophages  but whether resident and newly recruited macrophages possess similar functions during inflammation is unclear. here  we define the tools used for identifying the complex origin of tissue macrophages and discuss the relative contributions of tissue niche versus ontological origin to the regulation of macrophage functions during steady state and inflammation.
3314,statin use and risk of gallstone disease followed by cholecystectomy.,context gallstone disease is a leading cause of morbidity in western countries and carries a high economic burden. statins decrease hepatic cholesterol biosynthesis and may therefore lower the risk of cholesterol gallstones by reducing the cholesterol concentration in the bile. data on this association in humans are scarce. objective to study the association between the use of statins  fibrates  or other lipid-lowering agents and the risk of incident gallstone disease followed by cholecystectomy. design  setting  and participants case-control analysis using the uk-based general practice research database. incident patients between 1994 and 2008 and 4 controls per each patient were identified and matched on age  sex  general practice  calendar time  and years of history in the database. the study population was 76% women and the mean (sd) age was 53.4 (15.0) years at the index date. conditional logistic regression was used to estimate the odds ratio (or) of developing gallstones followed by cholecystectomy in relation to exposure to lipid-lowering agents  stratified by exposure timing and duration. the ors and 95% confidence intervals (cis) were adjusted for smoking  body mass index  ischemic heart disease  stroke  and estrogen use. main outcome measure the adjusted or (aor) for developing gallstone disease followed by cholecystectomy in relation to exposure to lipid-lowering agents. results a total of 27 035 patients with cholecystectomy and 106 531 matched controls were identified  including 2396 patients and 8868 controls who had statin use. compared with nonuse  current statin use (last prescription recorded within 90 days before the first-time diagnosis of the disease) was 1.0% for patients and 0.8% for controls (aor  1.10; 95% ci  0.95-1.27) for 1 to 4 prescriptions; 2.6% vs 2.4% (aor  0.85; 95% ci  0.77-0.93) for 5 to 19 prescriptions  and 3.2% vs 3.7% (aor  0.64; 95% ci  0.59-0.70) for 20 or more prescriptions. the aors for current use of statins defined as 20 or more prescriptions were similar (around 0.6) across age  sex  and body mass index categories  and across the statin class. conclusion long-term use of statins was associated with a decreased risk of gallstones followed by cholecystectomy.
3316,the national advisory group on immunization (nagi) of the republic of south africa.,the national immunization technical advisory group (nitag) in south africa  known as the national advisory group on immunization (nagi)  was established in 1993 to advise the national department of health (doh) on issues related to vaccination. meetings are held as needed but at least twice a year. the scope includes vaccines and immunization and other relevant infectious disease issues. nagi also makes recommendations on vaccine schedules and formulations. agendas are set by doh and the chairman of nagi. nagi brings together experts from a range of different fields relevant to vaccines and vaccinations and has been an important resource for guiding the expanded program of immunization (epi) in south africa.
3318,modloop: automated modeling of loops in protein structures.,summary modloop is a web server for automated modeling of loops in protein structures. the input is the atomic coordinates of the protein structure in the protein data bank format  and the specification of the starting and ending residues of one or more segments to be modeled  containing no more than 20 residues in total. the output is the coordinates of the non-hydrogen atoms in the modeled segments. a user provides the input to the server via a simple web interface  and receives the output by e-mail. the server relies on the loop modeling routine in modeller that predicts the loop conformations by satisfaction of spatial restraints  without relying on a database of known protein structures. for a rapid response  modloop runs on a cluster of linux pc computers. availability the server is freely accessible to academic users at http://salilab.org/modloop
3320,brief internet-based intervention reduces posttraumatic stress and prolonged grief in parents after the loss of a child during pregnancy: a randomized controlled trial,background: the loss of a child during pregnancy causes significant psychological distress for many women and their partners  and may lead to long-lasting psychiatric disorders. internet-based interventions using exposure techniques and cognitive restructuring have proved effective for posttraumatic stress disorder (ptsd) and prolonged grief. this study compared the effects of an internet-based intervention for parents after prenatal loss with a waiting list condition (wlc). methods: the impact of event scale - revised assessed symptoms of ptsd; the inventory of complicated grief and the brief symptom inventory assessed depression  anxiety  and general mental health. the 228 participants (92% female) were randomly allocated to a treatment group (tg; n = 115) or a wlc group (n = 113). the tg received a 5-week cognitive behavioral intervention including (1) self-confrontation  (2) cognitive restructuring  and (3) social sharing. results: the tg showed significantly reduced symptoms of posttraumatic stress  prolonged grief  depression  and anxiety relative to the wlc control group. intention-to-treat analysis revealed treatment effects of between d = 0.84 and d = 1.02 for posttraumatic stress and prolonged grief from pre- to posttreatment time points. further significant improvement in all symptoms of ptsd and prolonged grief was found from the posttreatment evaluation to the 12-month follow-up. the attrition rate of 14% was relatively low. conclusions: the internet-based intervention proved to be a feasible and cost-effective treatment  reducing symptoms of posttraumatic stress  grief  depression  anxiety  and general mental health after pregnancy loss. low-threshold e-health interventions should be further evaluated and implemented routinely to improve psychological support after pregnancy loss.
3322,ribosomal protein s17 gene (rps17) is mutated in diamond-blackfan anemia.,diamond-blackfan anemia (dba) is a congenital erythroid aplasia characterized as a normochromic macrocytic anemia with a selective deficiency in red blood cell precursors in otherwise normocellular bone marrow. in 40% of dba patients  various physical anomalies are also present. currently two genes are associated with the dba phenotype--the ribosomal protein (rp) s19 mutated in 25% of dba patients and rps24 mutated in approximately 1.4% of dba patients. here we report the identification of a mutation in yet another ribosomal protein  rps17. the mutation affects the translation initiation start codon  changing t to g (c.2t>g)  thus eliminating the natural start of rps17 protein biosynthesis. rna analysis revealed that the mutated allele was expressed  and the next downstream start codon located at position +158 should give rise to a short peptide of only four amino acids (met-ser-arg-ile). the mutation arose de novo  since all healthy family members carry the wild-type alleles. the identification of a mutation in the third rp of the small ribosomal subunit in dba patients further supports the theory that impaired translation may be the main cause of dba pathogenesis.
3324,disturbed sleep in bipolar disorder is related to an elevation of il-6 in peripheral monocytes.,bipolar disorder is a severe psychiatric disorder that is associated with persistent changes in the quality  duration and architecture of sleep. currently there is no unifying hypothesis explaining the alterations in sleep observable in patients with bipolar disorder and management is often difficult though vital. sleep is modified by various cytokines including il-6. elevated levels of il-6 are associated with a poorer quality of sleep and changes in the architecture of sleep similar to those observed in bipolar disorder. therapeutic administration of interferon causes elevations of intrathecal il-6 concentrations and appears to provoke a deteriorating quality of sleep. the blockade of il-6 with tocilizumab in rheumatoid arthritis is associated with improvements in the quality of sleep. bipolar disorder is associated with elevated levels of il-6 and in particular elevated levels of mrna coding for il-6 in peripheral monocytes. we propose that the changes observed in the sleep of patients with bipolar disorder are related to the elevation of il-6 and that this correlates with an elevated expression of mrna coding for il-6 expression in peripheral monocytes.
3326,production of cloned mice and es cells from adult somatic cells by nuclear transfer: how to improve cloning efficiency?,although it has now been 10 years since the first cloned mammals were generated from somatic cells using nuclear transfer (nt)  most cloned embryos usually undergo developmental arrest prior to or soon after implantation  and the success rate for producing live offspring by cloning remains below 5%. the low success rate is believed to be associated with epigenetic errors  including abnormal dna hypermethylation  but the mechanism of "reprogramming" is unclear. we have been able to develop a stable nt method in the mouse in which donor nuclei are directly injected into the oocyte using a piezo-actuated micromanipulator. especially in the mouse  only a few laboratories can make clones from adult somatic cells  and cloned mice are never successfully produced from most mouse strains. however  this technique promises to be an important tool for future research in basic biology. for example  nt can be used to generate embryonic stem (nt-es) cell lines from a patient's own somatic cells. we have shown that nt-es cells are equivalent to es cells derived from fertilized embryos and that they can be generated relatively easily from a variety of mouse genotypes and cell types of both sexes  even though it may be more difficult to generate clones directly. in general  nt-es cell techniques are expected to be applied to regenerative medicine; however  this technique can also be applied to the preservation of genetic resources of mouse strain instead of embryos  oocytes and spermatozoa. this review describes how to improve cloning efficiency and nt-es cell establishment and further applications.
3328,cryptochrome mediates circadian regulation of camp signaling and hepatic gluconeogenesis,during fasting  mammals maintain normal glucose homeostasis by stimulating hepatic gluconeogenesis. elevations in circulating glucagon and epinephrine  two hormones that activate hepatic gluconeogenesis  trigger the camp-mediated phosphorylation of camp response element-binding protein (creb) and dephosphorylation of the creb-regulated transcription coactivator-2 (crtc2)--two key transcriptional regulators of this process. although the underlying mechanism is unclear  hepatic gluconeogenesis is also regulated by the circadian clock  which coordinates glucose metabolism with changes in the external environment. circadian control of gene expression is achieved by two transcriptional activators  clock and bmal1  which stimulate cryptochrome (cry1 and cry2) and period (per1  per2 and per3) repressors that feed back on clock-bmal1 activity. here we show that creb activity during fasting is modulated by cry1 and cry2  which are rhythmically expressed in the liver. cry1 expression was elevated during the night-day transition  when it reduced fasting gluconeogenic gene expression by blocking glucagon-mediated increases in intracellular camp concentrations and in the protein kinase a-mediated phosphorylation of creb. in biochemical reconstitution studies  we found that cry1 inhibited accumulation of camp in response to g protein-coupled receptor (gpcr) activation but not to forskolin  a direct activator of adenyl cyclase. cry proteins seemed to modulate gpcr activity directly through interaction with g(s)α. as hepatic overexpression of cry1 lowered blood glucose concentrations and improved insulin sensitivity in insulin-resistant db/db mice  our results suggest that compounds that enhance cryptochrome activity may provide therapeutic benefit to individuals with type 2 diabetes.
3330,matrix metalloproteinase and proinflammatory cytokine production by chondrocytes of human osteoarthritic cartilage: associations with degenerative changes.,objective to examine by immunohistochemistry the relative distributions of 6 matrix metalloproteinases (mmps 1  2  3  8  9  and 13) and the 2 proinflammatory cytokines interleukin-1beta (il-1beta) and tumor necrosis factor alpha (tnfalpha) in osteoarthritic (oa) cartilage compared with normal  age-matched articular cartilage. methods articular cartilage samples were obtained from the tibial plateau of oa knees removed at arthroplasty and from normal  nonarthritic  knees obtained at autopsy. specimens were promptly fixed in carnoy's fixative  processed  embedded in paraffin  sectioned  and examined by immunohistochemistry for mmp and cytokine production. in addition  human articular chondrocytes (hac) were treated in vitro with either il-1beta  tnfalpha  or phorbol myristate acetate (pma) to assess their potential to produce each of the mmps  as determined by western blotting and gelatin zymography. results immunodetection of the collagenases (mmps 1  8  and 13) and stromelysin 1 (mmp-3) was demonstrated in a proportion of chondrocytes in the superficial zone of almost all of the oa specimens that had degenerative matrix changes. the gelatinases (mmps 2 and 9) were also demonstrated by immunohistochemistry but were not so prominent. il-1beta- and tnfalpha-positive chondrocytes were also observed in a proportion of cells in the superficial zones of oa specimens. much less immunostaining for mmps and cytokines was observed in the deep zone of all oa specimens  where the cartilage matrix and chondrocyte morphology appeared normal. in contrast  full-thickness normal cartilage specimens showed virtually no immunostaining for these mmps or cytokines. confirmation that chondrocytes can produce these 6 mmps was obtained from hac cultures treated with either il-1beta  tnfalpha  or pma; conditioned medium from activated hac contained all the mmps demonstrated by immunohistochemistry. dual immunolocalization studies of oa cartilage specimens demonstrated the coexpression of il-1 with mmp-8 by individual chondrocytes in situ. conclusion these results indicate that the superficial zone of oa cartilage specimens  which is characterized by fibrillations  chondrocyte clusters  and degenerative matrix changes  contains a variable proportion of cells that immunostain for il-1beta  tnfalpha  and 6 different mmps. these observations support the concept that cytokine-mmp associations reflect a modified chondrocyte phenotype and an intrinsic process of cartilage degradation in oa.
3332,retinal attenuates inflammatory arthritis by reciprocal regulation of il-17-producing t cells and foxp3(+) regulatory t cells and the inhibition of osteoclastogenesis.,retinoids (e.g.  vitamin a and its derivatives) can regulate immune responses. the aim of this study was to determine whether all-trans retinaldehyde (retinal)  a vitamin a derivative  can inhibit inflammatory responses and joint destruction in dba/1j mice with collagen-induced arthritis (cia). the arthritis score and incidence of arthritis were lower in mice treated with retinal compared to those treated with cottonseed oil. histopathologic evidence of joint damage was lower in mice treated with retinal  corresponding with a reduction in the infiltration of immune cells in mice treated with retinal type ii collagen (cii)-stimulated spleen cells. in addition  the expression of proinflammatory cytokines  oxidative stress proteins  and osteoclast markers were significantly reduced in mice treated with retinal. in vitro  retinal induced increased foxp3 expression and inhibited th17 development. the proportion of foxp3(+) treg cells was increased in the spleens of mice treated with retinal  whereas the proportion of th17 cells was reduced. in both mice and a human culture system  tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (trap) positive mononuclear cells and multinucleated cells were significantly reduced after treatment with retinal. the expression of osteoclast differentiation markers was dramatically decreased upon addition of retinal. this is the first study to demonstrate the therapeutic effect of retinal on an autoimmune arthritis model in mice through reciprocal regulation of th17 and regulatory t cells and protection of differentiation and activation of osteoclasts. taken together  our findings indicate that retinal has profound immunoregulatory functions and potential value for the treatment of autoimmune inflammatory disorders.
3334,regulation of isw2 by concerted action of histone h4 tail and extranucleosomal dna.,the stable contact of isw2 with nucleosomal dna approximately 20 bp from the dyad was shown by dna footprinting and photoaffinity labeling using recombinant histone octamers to require the histone h4 n-terminal tail. efficient isw2 remodeling also required the h4 n-terminal tail  although the lack of the h4 tail can be mostly compensated for by increasing the incubation time or concentration of isw2. similarly  the length of extranucleosomal dna affected the stable contact of isw2 with this same internal nucleosomal site  with the optimal length being 70 to 85 bp. these data indicate the histone h4 tail  in concert with a favorable length of extranucleosomal dna  recruits and properly orients isw2 onto the nucleosome for efficient nucleosome remodeling. one consequence of this property of isw2 is likely its previously observed nucleosome spacing activity.
3336,a comparison of letrozole to gonadotropins for ovulation induction  in subjects who failed to conceive with clomiphene citrate.,objective to compare pregnancy rates (pr) for letrozole and gonadotropins in individuals who failed to conceive with clomiphene citrate (cc). design retrospective cohort study. setting university reproductive center. patient(s) individuals treated with letrozole or gonadotropins who failed to conceive with cc. intervention(s) controlled ovarian hyperstimulation (coh)  transvaginal ultrasound  ovulation induction  iui. main outcome measure(s) pregnancy rates per cycle. result(s) among patients who failed to conceive with at least three cycles of cc  gonadotropins had a higher pr per cycle than letrozole. among individuals who failed to conceive with less than three cycles of cc and whose medications were changed because of thin uterine lining or intolerable side effects  average pr per cycle for letrozole and gonadotropin treatments were equivalent. all patients conceived within three stimulation cycles with either gonadotropins or letrozole. conclusion(s) in patients who failed to conceive with cc  gonadotropins have higher pr for ovulation induction than letrozole. however  pr were high enough with letrozole to justify its use in this population of patients. letrozole and gonadotropins should not be used for more than three cycles without a conception.
3338,reversal of the cellular phenotype in the premature aging disease hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome,hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome (hgps) is a childhood premature aging disease caused by a spontaneous point mutation in lamin a (encoded by lmna)  one of the major architectural elements of the mammalian cell nucleus. the hgps mutation activates an aberrant cryptic splice site in lmna pre-mrna  leading to synthesis of a truncated lamin a protein and concomitant reduction in wild-type lamin a. fibroblasts from individuals with hgps have severe morphological abnormalities in nuclear envelope structure. here we show that the cellular disease phenotype is reversible in cells from individuals with hgps. introduction of wild-type lamin a protein does not rescue the cellular disease symptoms. the mutant lmna mrna and lamin a protein can be efficiently eliminated by correction of the aberrant splicing event using a modified oligonucleotide targeted to the activated cryptic splice site. upon splicing correction  hgps fibroblasts assume normal nuclear morphology  the aberrant nuclear distribution and cellular levels of lamina-associated proteins are rescued  defects in heterochromatin-specific histone modifications are corrected and proper expression of several misregulated genes is reestablished. our results establish proof of principle for the correction of the premature aging phenotype in individuals with hgps.
3340,predictors of survival after acute paraquat poisoning.,acute paraquat poisoning is often fatal. many studies have investigated successful treatment modalities  but no standard treatment yet exists. the purpose of this study was to determine the predictors of survival after acute paraquat poisoning in 602 patients. the paraquat exposure was assessed based on the amount of ingested paraquat and a semiquantitative measure of the urine level of paraquat. initial clinical parameters including vital signs  hemoglobin  white-blood-cell count  ph  paco2  pao2  blood urea nitrogen  creatinine  aspartate aminotransferase  alanine aminotransferase  total bilirubin  amylase  and glucose were obtained at the time of arrival at the emergency room. outcomes after acute paraquat poisoning were categorized as survivors and nonsurvivors. multiple logistic regression analysis was applied to assess the predictors of survival after acute paraquat poisoning. some patients (55.5%) survived after oral ingestion of paraquat  whereas all those exposed to paraquat percutaneous or inhalational route survived. the amount of paraquat (24.5% concentrate of 1 1'-dimethyl-4 4'-bipyridium dichloride) ingested was 45.6 +/- 74.1 ml (mean +/- sd). in addition to degree of paraquat exposure  survival after acute paraquat poisoning was associated with age  respiratory rate  ph  paco2  hemoglobin  white-blood-cell count  blood urea nitrogen  amylase  and the number of failed organs in multiple logistic regression analysis. in conclusion  young age  percutaneous or inhalational route  exposure to less paraquat  and lesser degrees of leukocytosis  acidosis  and renal  hepatic  and pancreatic failures on admission are good prognostic factors of survival after acute paraquat poisoning.
3342,dna methylation in major depressive disorder.,epigenetic mechanisms regulate gene expression  influencing protein levels and ultimately shaping phenotypes during life. however  both stochastic epigenetic variations and environmental reprogramming of the epigenome might influence neurodevelopment and ageing  and this may contribute to the origins of mental ill-health. studying the role of epigenetic mechanisms is challenging  as genotype-  tissue- and cell type-dependent epigenetic changes have to be taken into account  while the nature of mental disorders also poses significant challenges for linking them with biological profiles. in this chapter  we summarise the current evidence suggesting the role of dna methylation as a key epigenetic mechanism in major depressive disorder.
3344,advances in graft-versus-host disease biology and therapy,allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation is used to treat a variety of disorders  but its efficacy is limited by the occurrence of graft-versus-host disease (gvhd). the past decade has brought impressive advances in our understanding of the role of stimulatory and suppressive elements of the adaptive and innate immune systems from both the donor and the host in gvhd pathogenesis. new insights from basic immunology  preclinical models and clinical studies have led to novel approaches for prevention and treatment. this review highlights the recent advances in understanding the pathophysiology of gvhd and its treatment  with a focus on manipulations of the immune system that are amenable to clinical application.
3346,a single rna-dependent rna polymerase assembles with mutually exclusive nucleotidyl transferase subunits to direct different pathways of small rna biogenesis.,members of the conserved family of eukaryotic rna-dependent rna polymerases (rdrs) synthesize double-stranded rna (dsrna) intermediates in diverse pathways of small rna (srna) biogenesis and rna-mediated silencing. rdr-dependent pathways of srna production are poorly characterized relative to rdr-independent pathways  and the rdr enzymes themselves are poorly characterized relative to their viral rna-dependent rna polymerase counterparts. we previously described a physical and functional coupling of the tetrahymena thermophila rdr  rdr1  and a dicer enzyme  dcr2  in the production of approximately 24-nucleotide (nt) srna in vitro. here we characterize the endogenous complexes that harbor rdr1  termed rdrcs. distinct rdrcs assemble to contain rdr1 and subsets of the total of four tightly rdr1-associated proteins. of particular interest are two rdrc subunits  rdn1 and rdn2  which possess noncanonical ribonucleotidyl transferase motifs. we show that the two rdn proteins are uridine-specific polymerases of separate rdrcs. two additional rdrc subunits  rdf1 and rdf2  are present only in rdrcs containing rdn1. rdr1 catalytic activity is retained in rdrcs purified from cell extracts lacking any of the nonessential rdrc subunits (rdn2  rdf1  rdf2) or if the rdrc harbors a catalytically inactive rdn. however  specific disruption of each rdrc imposes distinct loss-of-function consequences at the cellular level and has a differential impact on the accumulation of specific 23-24-nt srna sequences in vivo. the biochemical and biological phenotypes of rdrc subunit disruption reveal a previously unanticipated complexity of rdr-dependent srna biogenesis in vivo.
3348,immunotherapy of metastatic kidney cancer.,from april 1986 to september 2000  122 mrcc patients were treated by monthly intralymphatic injections (containing a mean of 573 il-2 u and 26 x 10(6) lak cells) and i.m. administration of ifn and tf; 71 patients also received a 3-day cycle of monthly il-2 inhalations with a mean of 998 daily u. mrcc cases not treated by immunotherapy (n = 89) represent our historical controls. adverse clinical side effects related to treatment were negligible. cr (n = 11) and pr (n = 13) were noticed in 24/122 patients. of 24 responding patients  17 resumed progression  whereas 7 remain in remission 11-69 months later. the overall median survival of treated patients (28 months) was 3.5-fold higher than the median survival of historical controls (7.5 months)  and a kaplan-meier curve showed 25% survival 11 years after the beginning of immunotherapy. apparently  the addition of il-2 by inhalation improved survival. the present immunotherapy protocol appears to be efficacious  safe  devoid of adverse side effects  far less costly than others and able to offer a good quality of life to mrcc patients; if confirmed in a multicenter trial  it could set the basis for developing low-dose immunomodulatory treatments.
3350,effects of fxr in foam-cell formation and atherosclerosis development.,farnesoid x receptor (fxr)  a bile-acid-activated member of the nuclear receptor superfamily  is essential in regulating bile-acid  cholesterol  and triglyceride homeostasis. disruption of the fxr gene in mice results in a proatherosclerotic lipid profile with increased serum cholesterols and triglycerides. however  the role of fxr in foam-cell formation and atherosclerosis development remains unclear. the current study showed that the peritoneal macrophages isolated from fxr-null mice took up less oxidized ldl-cholesterol (oxldl-c)  which was accompanied by a marked reduction in cd36 expression in these cells. this result appears to be fxr-independent  as fxr was not detected in the peritoneal macrophages. to assess to what extent fxr modulates atherosclerosis development  fxr/apoe double-null mice were generated. female mice were used for atherosclerosis analysis. compared to apoe-null mice  the fxr/apoe double-null mice were found to have less atherosclerotic lesion area in the aorta  despite a further increase in the serum cholesterols and triglycerides. our results indicate that disruption of the fxr gene could attenuate atherosclerosis development  most likely resulting from reduced oxldl-c uptake by macrophages. our study cautions the use of serum lipid levels as a surrogate marker to determine the efficiency of fxr modulators in treating hyperlipidemia.
3352,awake craniotomy with brain mapping as the routine surgical approach to treating patients with supratentorial intraaxial tumors: a prospective trial of 200 cases.,object awake craniotomy was performed as the standard surgical approach to supratentorial intraaxial tumors  regardless of the involvement of eloquent cortex  in a prospective trial of 200 patients surgically treated by the same surgeon at a single institution. methods patient presentations  comorbid conditions  tumor locations  and the histological characteristics of lesions were recorded. brain mapping was possible in 195 (97.5%) of 200 patients. the total number of patients sustaining complications was 33 for an overall complication rate of 16.5%. there were two deaths in this series  for a mortality rate of 1%. new postoperative neurological deficits were seen in 13% of the patients  but these were permanent in only 4.5% of them. complication rates were higher in patients who had gliomas or preoperative neurological deficits and in those who had undergone prior radiation therapy or surgery. no patient who entered the operating room neurologically intact sustained a permanent neurological deficit postoperatively. of the most recent 50 patients treated  three (6%) required a stay in the intensive care unit  and the median total hospital stay was 1 day. conclusions use of awake craniotomy can result in a considerable reduction in resource utilization without compromising patient care by minimizing intensive care time and total hospital stay. awake craniotomy is a practical and effective standard surgical approach to supratentorial tumors with a low complication rate  and provides an excellent alternative to craniotomy performed with the patient in the state of general anesthesia because it allows the opportunity for brain mapping and avoids general anesthesia.
3354,helicobacter pylori infection triggers aberrant expression of activation-induced cytidine deaminase in gastric epithelium,infection with helicobacter pylori (h. pylori) is a risk factor for the development of gastric cancer. here we show that infection of gastric epithelial cells with 'cag' pathogenicity island (cagpai)-positive h. pylori induced aberrant expression of activation-induced cytidine deaminase (aid)  a member of the cytidine-deaminase family that acts as a dna- and rna-editing enzyme  via the iκb kinase–dependent nuclear factor-κb activation pathway. h. pylori–mediated upregulation of aid resulted in the accumulation of nucleotide alterations in the tp53 tumor suppressor gene in gastric cells in vitro. our findings provide evidence that aberrant aid expression caused by h. pylori infection might be a mechanism of mutation accumulation in the gastric mucosa during h. pylori–associated gastric carcinogenesis.
3356,the s-lanss score for identifying pain of predominantly neuropathic origin: validation for use in clinical and postal research.,this article describes the development and validation of the s-lanss score  a self-report version of the leeds assessment of neuropathic symptoms and signs pain scale. the s-lanss aims to identify pain of predominantly neuropathic origin  as distinct from nociceptive pain  without the need for clinical examination. two hundred patients with chronic pain were asked to complete the s-lanss unaided. a researcher then administered the s-lanss scale and the neuropathic pain scale (nps) in interview format. an independent clinician determined the pain type (neuropathic versus nociceptive) and rated his or her certainty about diagnosis. the s-lanss scale was also incorporated into a chronic pain questionnaire that was sent to 160 community patients and 150 newly referred patients waiting for pain clinic assessment. the s-lanss scale correctly identified 75% of pain types when self-completed and 80% when used in interview format. sensitivity for self-completed s-lanss scores ranged from 74% to 78%  depending on the cutoff score. there were significant associations between nps items and total score with s-lanss score. in the postal survey  completed questionnaires were returned by 57% of patients (n = 174). internal consistency and convergent validity of the survey s-lanss scores were confirmed. the findings support the s-lanss scale as a valid and reliable self-report instrument for identifying neuropathic pain and it is also acceptable for use in postal survey research. establishing valid measures of symptoms and signs in neuropathic pain will allow standardized comparisons with other investigational measures. this might lead to new insights into the relationship between pathophysiologic mechanisms and clinical manifestations of pain.
3358,exploring metabolic configurations of single cells within complex tissue microenvironments.,over the past years  plenty of evidence has emerged illustrating how metabolism supports many aspects of cellular function and how metabolic reprogramming can drive cell differentiation and fate. here  we present a method to assess the metabolic configuration of single cells within their native tissue microenvironment via the visualization and quantification of multiple enzymatic activities measured at saturating substrate conditions combined with subsequent cell type identification. after careful validation of the approach and to demonstrate its potential  we assessed the intracellular metabolic configuration of different human immune cell populations in healthy and tumor colon tissue. additionally  we analyzed the intercellular metabolic relationship between cancer cells and cancer-associated fibroblasts in a breast cancer tissue array. this study demonstrates that the determination of metabolic configurations in single cells could be a powerful complementary tool for every researcher interested to study metabolic networks in situ.
3360,abi1 is essential for the formation and activation of a wave2 signalling complex,wave2 belongs to a family of proteins that mediates actin reorganization by relaying signals from rac to the arp2/3 complex  resulting in lamellipodia protrusion. wave2 displays arp2/3-dependent actin nucleation activity in vitro  and does not bind directly to rac. instead  it forms macromolecular complexes that have been reported to exert both positive and negative modes of regulation. how these complexes are assembled  localized and activated in vivo remains to be established. here we use tandem mass spectrometry to identify an abi1-based complex containing wave2  nap1 (nck-associated protein) and pir121. abi1 interacts directly with the whd domain of wave2  increases wave2 actin polymerization activity and mediates the assembly of a wave2–abi1–nap1–pir121 complex. the wave2–abi1–nap1–pir121 complex is as active as the wave2–abi1 sub-complex in stimulating arp2/3  and after rac activation it is re-localized to the leading edge of ruffles in vivo. consistently  inhibition of abi1 by rna interference (rnai) abrogates rac-dependent lamellipodia protrusion. thus  abi1 orchestrates the proper assembly of the wave2 complex and mediates its activation at the leading edge in vivo.
3362,il-15 receptor deletion results in circadian changes of locomotor and metabolic activity,interleukin-15 (il-15) is a cytokine produced in the normal brain that acts on its specific receptor il-15rα and co-receptors il-2rβ and il-2rγ in neuronal cells. the functions of the cerebral il-15 system  however  are not yet clear. to test the hypothesis that il-15rα regulates metabolic activity and body temperature  we quantified the specific metabolic phenotype of il-15rα knockout mice. these normal-appearing mice were leaner with lower fat composition. during the entire circadian cycle  the knockout mice had a significantly higher acrophase in locomotor activity and heat dissipation. during the light phase  there was significantly greater food intake  oxygen consumption  and carbon dioxide production. the difference in the dark and light phases suggests that il-15rα participates in circadian rhythm regulation. the higher oxygen consumption in the light phase indicates adaptive thermogenesis in the knockout mice. the body temperature of the receptor knockout mice was significantly higher than the control in the light phase  and this was mainly caused by a large difference occurring between 0600 and 0900 h. in addition to the metabolic chamber studies and circadian rhythm analyses  qpcr of hypothalamic homogenates indicated higher mrna expression of orexin and transient receptor potential vanilloid 4 cation channels. consistent with a direct role of il-15rα in the hypothalamus  il-15 treatment of the wild-type mice induced c-fos expression in the preoptic area. we conclude that activation of hypothalamic neurons by il-15 in mice contributes to thermoregulation and modifies the metabolic phenotype.
3364,the oxytocinase subfamily of m1 aminopeptidases.,the placental leucine aminopeptidase (p-lap)  adipocyte-derived leucine aminopeptidase (a-lap) and leukocyte-derived aminopeptidase (l-rap) belong to one distinct group of the m1 family of amimopeptidases  which we term the "oxytocinase subfamily". they share hexxh(x)18e zn-binding and gamen motifs essential for the enzymatic activities. intracellular localization is the characteristic feature of the subfamily members. while p-lap is translocated from intracellular vesicles to plasma membrane in a stimulus-dependent manner  both a-lap and l-rap are retained in the endoplasmic reticulum. they contain sequences necessary for the specific localization in the cell. it is getting evident that the subfamily members play important roles in the maintenance of homeostasis including maintenance of normal pregnancy  memory retention  blood pressure regulation and antigen presentation. in this review  current situation of this newly identified subfamily is summarized.
3366,[vitamin d and latitude as environmental factors in multiple sclerosis].,multiple sclerosis (ms) shows a multifold increase in prevalence with an increase in latitudes  both north and south of the equator. one of the potential factors related to the difference of the prevalence is vitamin d  because the strength of ambient ultraviolet light  which is essential for vitamin d production  decreases with increasing latitude. it is known that vitamin d has immunomodulatory functions and suppresses an animal model of ms. it is also considered that vitamin d-related genes are critical susceptible genes for ms. an approach from environmental and genetic aspects is needed to investigate the association between vitamin d and ms.
3368,implanted microvessels progress through distinct neovascularization phenotypes.,we have previously demonstrated that implanted microvessels form a new microcirculation with minimal host-derived vessel investment. our objective was to define the vascular phenotypes present during neovascularization in these implants and identify post-angiogenesis events. morphological  functional and transcriptional assessments identified three distinct vascular phenotypes in the implants: sprouting angiogenesis  neovascular remodeling  and network maturation. a sprouting angiogenic phenotype appeared first  characterized by high proliferation and low mural cell coverage. this was followed by a neovascular remodeling phenotype characterized by a perfused  poorly organized neovascular network  reduced proliferation  and re-associated mural cells. the last phenotype included a vascular network organized into a stereotypical tree structure containing vessels with normal perivascular cell associations. in addition  proliferation was low and was restricted to the walls of larger microvessels. the transition from angiogenesis to neovascular remodeling coincided with the appearance of blood flow in the implant neovasculature. analysis of vascular-specific and global gene expression indicates that the intermediate  neovascular remodeling phenotype is transcriptionally distinct from the other two phenotypes. therefore  this vascular phenotype likely is not simply a transitional phenotype but a distinct vascular phenotype involving unique cellular and vascular processes. furthermore  this neovascular remodeling phase may be a normal aspect of the general neovascularization process. given that this phenotype is arguably dysfunctional  many of the microvasculatures present within compromised or diseased tissues may not represent a failure to progress appropriately through a normally occurring neovascularization phenotype.
3370,the function of follicular helper t cells is regulated by the strength of t cell antigen receptor binding,how follicular helper t cells (tfh cells) differentiate to regulate b cell immunity is critical for effective protein vaccination. here we define three transcription factor t-bet–expressing antigen-specific effector helper t cell subsets with distinguishable function  migratory properties and developmental programming in vivo. expression of the transcriptional repressor blimp-1 distinguished t zone 'lymphoid' effector helper t cells (cd62lhiccr7hi) from cxcr5lo 'emigrant' effector helper t cells and cxcr5hi 'resident' tfh cells expressing the transcriptional repressor bcl-6 (cd62lloccr7lo). we then show by adoptive transfer and intact polyclonal responses that helper t cells with the highest specific binding of peptide–major histocompatibility complex class ii and the most restricted t cell antigen receptor junctional diversity 'preferentially' developed into the antigen-specific effector tfh compartment. our studies demonstrate a central function for differences in the binding strength of the t cell antigen receptor in the antigen-specific mechanisms that 'program' specialized effector tfh function in vivo.
3372,differential expression of bcl-2 and susceptibility to anti-fas-mediated cell death in peripheral blood lymphocytes  monocytes  and neutrophils.,the recently identified fas antigen (ag) is a cell surface molecule that can mediate apoptosis. the cytoplasmic product of proto-oncogene bcl-2 has been shown to prolong the cellular survival by inhibiting apoptosis. to elucidate the physiologic significance of expression of both molecules  we examined the expression of fas ag and bcl-2 on blood leukocyte populations and evaluated their sensitivity to the cytolytic action of anti-fas antibody. although fas ag was expressed on a fraction of lymphocytes  both neutrophils and monocytes expressed fas ag constitutively. in contrast  there was marked difference among these leukocytes regarding bcl-2 expression. lymphocytes expressed bcl-2 intensely  but monocytes showed weaker bcl-2 expression  and neutrophils were essentially absent for bcl-2 expression. seemingly reflecting this lack of bcl-2-expression  neutrophils more easily underwent apoptotic cell death in vitro as compared with monocytes and lymphocytes. we showed that anti-fas antibody affectively accelerated apoptotic cell death in neutrophils. however  the apoptosis-inducing effect of anti-fas antibody was minimal on monocytes  and lymphocytes were resistant to this antibody. these results suggest that anti-fas-mediated cell death may  in part  be determined by bcl-2 expression status in fas+ lymphoid and hematopoietic cells.
3374,crystal structure of the eukaryotic 60s ribosomal subunit in complex with initiation factor 6.,protein synthesis in all organisms is catalyzed by ribosomes. in comparison to their prokaryotic counterparts  eukaryotic ribosomes are considerably larger and are subject to more complex regulation. the large ribosomal subunit (60s) catalyzes peptide bond formation and contains the nascent polypeptide exit tunnel. we present the structure of the 60s ribosomal subunit from tetrahymena thermophila in complex with eukaryotic initiation factor 6 (eif6)  cocrystallized with the antibiotic cycloheximide (a eukaryotic-specific inhibitor of protein synthesis)  at a resolution of 3.5 angstroms. the structure illustrates the complex functional architecture of the eukaryotic 60s subunit  which comprises an intricate network of interactions between eukaryotic-specific ribosomal protein features and rna expansion segments. it reveals the roles of eukaryotic ribosomal protein elements in the stabilization of the active site and the extent of eukaryotic-specific differences in other functional regions of the subunit. furthermore  it elucidates the molecular basis of the interaction with eif6 and provides a structural framework for further studies of ribosome-associated diseases and the role of the 60s subunit in the initiation of protein synthesis.
3376,stress and host immunity amplify mycobacterium tuberculosis phenotypic heterogeneity and induce nongrowing metabolically active forms.,nonreplicating and metabolically quiescent bacteria are implicated in latent tuberculosis infections and relapses following "sterilizing" chemotherapy. however  evidence linking bacterial dormancy and persistence in vivo is largely inconclusive. here we measure the single-cell dynamics of mycobacterium tuberculosis replication and ribosomal activity using quantitative time-lapse microscopy and a reporter of ribosomal rna gene expression. single-cell dynamics exhibit heterogeneity under standard growth conditions  which is amplified by stressful conditions such as nutrient limitation  stationary phase  intracellular replication  and growth in mouse lungs. additionally  the lungs of chronically infected mice harbor a subpopulation of nongrowing but metabolically active bacteria  which are absent in mice lacking interferon-γ  a cytokine essential for antituberculosis immunity. these cryptic bacterial forms are prominent in mice treated with the antituberculosis drug isoniazid  suggesting a role in postchemotherapeutic relapses. thus  amplification of bacterial phenotypic heterogeneity in response to host immunity and drug pressure may contribute to tuberculosis persistence.
3378,prevalence of attempting weight loss and strategies for controlling weight.,context overweight and obesity are increasing in the united states. changes in diet and physical activity are important for weight control. objectives to examine the prevalence of attempting to lose or to maintain weight and to describe weight control strategies among us adults. design the behavioral risk factor surveillance system  a random-digit telephone survey conducted in 1996 by state health departments. setting the 49 states (and the district of columbia) that participated in the survey. participants adults aged 18 years and older (n = 107 804). main outcome measures reported current weights and goal weights  prevalence of weight loss or maintenance attempts  and strategies used to control weight (eating fewer calories  eating less fat  or using physical activity) by population subgroup. results the prevalence of attempting to lose and maintain weight was 28.8% and 35.1 % among men and 43.6% and 34.4% among women  respectively. among those attempting to lose weight  a common strategy was to consume less fat but not fewer calories (34.9% of men and 40.0% of women); only 21.5% of men and 19.4% of women reported using the recommended combination of eating fewer calories and engaging in at least 150 minutes of leisure-time physical activity per week. among men trying to lose weight  the median weight was 90.4 kg with a goal weight of 81.4 kg. among women  the median weight was 70.3 kg with a goal weight of 59.0 kg. conclusions weight loss and weight maintenance are common concerns for us men and women. most persons trying to lose weight are not using the recommended combination of reducing calorie intake and engaging in leisure-time physical activity 150 minutes or more per week.
3380,roles of chromatin remodellers in dna double strand break repair.,now that we have a good understanding of the dna double strand break (dsb) repair mechanisms and dsb-induced damage signalling  attention is focusing on the changes to the chromatin environment needed for efficient dsb repair. mutations in chromatin remodelling complexes have been identified in cancers  making it important to evaluate how they impact upon genomic stability. our current understanding of the dsb repair pathways suggests that each one has distinct requirements for chromatin remodelling. moreover  restricting the extent of chromatin modifications could be a significant factor regulating the decision of pathway usage. in this review  we evaluate the distinct dsb repair pathways for their potential need for chromatin remodelling and review the roles of atp-driven chromatin remodellers in the pathways.
3382,relation between medicare screening reimbursement and stage at diagnosis for older patients with colon cancer.,context medicare's reimbursement policy was changed in 1998 to provide coverage for screening colonoscopies for patients with increased colon cancer risk  and expanded further in 2001 to cover screening colonoscopies for all individuals. objective to determine whether the medicare reimbursement policy changes were associated with an increase in either colonoscopy use or early stage colon cancer diagnosis. design  setting  and participants patients in the surveillance  epidemiology  and end results medicare linked database who were 67 years of age and older and had a primary diagnosis of colon cancer during 1992-2002  as well as a group of medicare beneficiaries who resided in surveillance  epidemiology  and end results areas but who were not diagnosed with cancer. main outcome measures trends in colonoscopy and sigmoidoscopy use among medicare beneficiaries without cancer were assessed using multivariate poisson regression. among the patients with cancer  stage was classified as early (stage i) vs all other (stages ii-iv). time was categorized as period 1 (no screening coverage  1992-1997)  period 2 (limited coverage  january 1998-june 2001)  and period 3 (universal coverage  july 2001-december 2002). a multivariate logistic regression (outcome = early stage) was used to assess temporal trends in stage at diagnosis; an interaction term between tumor site and time was included. results colonoscopy use increased from an average rate of 285/100 000 per quarter in period 1 to 889 and 1919/100 000 per quarter in periods 2 (p<.001) and 3 (p vs 2<.001)  respectively. during the study period  44 924 eligible patients were diagnosed with colorectal cancer. the proportion of patients diagnosed at an early stage increased from 22.5% in period 1 to 25.5% in period 2 and 26.3% in period 3 (p<.001 for each pairwise comparison). the changes in medicare coverage were strongly associated with early stage at diagnosis for patients with proximal colon lesions (adjusted relative risk period 2 vs 1  1.19; 95% confidence interval  1.13-1.26; adjusted relative risk period 3 vs 2  1.10; 95% confidence interval  1.02-1.17) but weakly associated  if at all  for patients with distal colon lesions (adjusted relative risk period 2 vs 1  1.07; 95% confidence interval  1.01-1.13; adjusted relative risk period 3 vs 2  0.97; 95% confidence interval  0.90-1.05). conclusions expansion of medicare reimbursement to cover colon cancer screening was associated with an increased use of colonoscopy for medicare beneficiaries  and for those who were diagnosed with colon cancer  an increased probability of being diagnosed at an early stage. the selective effect of the coverage change on proximal colon lesions suggests that increased use of whole-colon screening modalities such as colonoscopy may have played a pivotal role.
3384,aberrant expression and altered cellular localization of desmosomal and hemidesmosomal proteins are associated with aggressive clinicopathological features of oral squamous cell carcinoma,disruption of cell adhesion plays a central role in dedifferentiation  invasion  and metastasis of various cancers. the desmosome and hemidesmosome are anchoring junctions that control cell-cell and cell-matrix adhesion  respectively. to clarify their contributions in mediating the biological properties of oral cancer  we immunohistochemically examined the expression of desmoglein 1 (dsg1)  dsg2  dsg3  desmocollin 2 (dsc2)  integrin beta 4 (itgb4)  laminin gamma chain 2 (lamc2)  and collagen type 17 alpha 1 (col17a1) in 51 cases of oral squamous cell carcinoma. on normal oral epithelial cells  dsg1  dsg3  dsc2  and col17a1 were expressed on the plasma membrane  while itgb4 and mature lamc2 were present at the basement membrane. in cancer  the expression of dsg1  dsg3  dsc2  and col17a1 decreased and internalized to the cytoplasm. cytoplasmic expression of dsg2  itgb4  and lamc2 was induced in the cancer cells facing to the stroma. we scored immunohistochemical expression and correlated this to clinicopathological parameters including histologic differentiation  pattern of invasion  and presence of lymph node metastasis. decrease of dsg3 and dsc2 expression correlated with a more aggressive cancer phenotype: less differentiated and more invasive histologic features and a higher incidence of nodal metastasis. lower col17a1 and higher lamc2 expression were also associated with a more aggressive phenotype. the present study demonstrates that aberrant expression and altered cellular localization of desmosomal and hemidesmosomal proteins are associated with aggressive clinicopathological features of oral cancer. this reinforces the notion that disturbance of the keratin-associated anchoring junctions confers aggressive features to cancer cells.
3386,enhanced pathological angiogenesis in mice lacking β3 integrin or β3 and β5 integrins,inhibition of αvβ3 or αvβ5 integrin function has been reported to suppress neovascularization and tumor growth  suggesting that these integrins are critical modulators of angiogenesis. here we report that mice lacking β3 integrins or both β3 and β5 integrins not only support tumorigenesis  but have enhanced tumor growth as well. moreover  the tumors in these integrin-deficient mice display enhanced angiogenesis  strongly suggesting that neither β3 nor β5 integrins are essential for neovascularization. we also observed that angiogenic responses to hypoxia and vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) are augmented significantly in the absence of β3 integrins. we found no evidence that the expression or functions of other integrins were altered as a consequence of the β3 deficiency  but we did observe elevated levels of vegf receptor-2 (also called flk-1) in β3-null endothelial cells. these data indicate that αvβ3 and αvβ5 integrins are not essential for vascular development or pathological angiogenesis and highlight the need for further evaluation of the mechanisms of action of αv-integrin antagonists in anti-angiogenic therapeutics.
3388,heterogenic loss of the wild-type brca allele in human breast tumorigenesis,for individuals genetically predisposed to breast and ovarian cancer through inheritance of a mutant brca allele  somatic loss of heterozygosity affecting the wild-type allele is considered obligatory for cancer initiation and/or progression. however  several lines of evidence suggest that phenotypic effects may result from brca haploinsufficiency. archival fixed and embedded tissue specimens from women with germ line deleterious mutations in brca1 or brca2 were identified. after pathologic review  focal areas of normal breast epithelium  atypical ductal hyperplasia  ductal carcinoma-in-situ  and invasive ductal carcinoma were identified from 14 brca1-linked and 9 brca2-linked breast cancers. ten brca-linked prophylactic mastectomy specimens and 12 brca-linked invasive ovarian carcinomas were also studied. laser catapult microdissection was used to isolate cells from the various pathologic lesions and corresponding normal tissues. after dna isolation  real-time polymerase chain reaction assays were used to quantitate the proportion of wild-type to mutant brca alleles in each tissue sample. quantitative allelotyping of microdissected cells revealed a high level of heterogeneity in loss of heterozygosity within and between preinvasive lesions and invasive cancers from brca1 and brca2 heterozygotes with breast cancer. in contrast  all brca-associated ovarian cancers displayed complete loss of the wild-type brca allele. these data suggest that loss of the wild-type brca allele is not required for brca-linked breast tumorigenesis  which would have important implications for the genetic mechanism of brca tumor suppression and for the clinical management of this patient population.
3390,h2s and hs− donor nahs releases nitric oxide from nitrosothiols  metal nitrosyl complex  brain homogenate and murine l1210 leukaemia cells,nitrosoglutathione [(gsno)  500 nmol/l] relaxed the norepinephrine precontracted rat aortic rings. the relaxation effect was pronouncedly enhanced by h2s- and hs−-donor nahs (30 μmol/l) at 7.5 ph but not at 6.3 ph. to study molecular mechanism of this effect  we investigated whether nahs can release no from no donors. using an electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy method of spin trap and by measuring the no oxidation product  which is nitrite  by the griess reaction  we report that nahs released no from nitrosothiols  namely from gsno  s-nitroso-n-acetyl-dl-penicillamine (snap)  from metal nitrosyl complex nitroprusside (snp) and from rat brain homogenate and murine l1210 leukaemia cells. from the observation that the releasing effect was more pronounced at 8.0 ph than 6.0 ph  we suppose that hs−  rather than h2s  is responsible for the no-releasing effect. since in mammals  h2s and hs− are produced endogenously  we assume that their effect to release no from nitrosothiols and from metal nitrosyl complexes are responsible for some of their biological activities and that this mechanism may be involved in s-nitrosothiol-signalling reactions.
3392,kruppel-like factor 2 is required for trafficking but not quiescence in postactivated t cells.,the transcription factor kruppel-like factor 2 (klf2) was proposed to regulate genes involved in cell cycle entry and t cell trafficking; however  the physiological role of its expression in postactivated t cells is not well defined. previous studies suggested that the cytokines il-2 and il-15 differentially regulate klf2 re-expression in postactivation t cells and that these cytokines also influence effector versus memory t cell differentiation. using conditional and inducible klf2-knockout model systems  we tested the specific role of klf2 expression in activated cd8(+) t cells cultured with these cytokines. klf2 was required for effective transcription of sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor-1 (s1p(1)) and cd62l in postactivation t cells. however  although different cytokines dramatically altered the expression of cell-cycle-related genes  endogenous klf2 had a minimal impact. correspondingly  klf2-deficient t cells showed dysregulated trafficking but not altered proliferative characteristics following in vivo responses to ag. thus  our data help to define klf2-dependent and -independent aspects of activated cd8(+) t cell differentiation and argue against a physiological role in cell cycle regulation.
3394,methionine restriction decreases visceral fat mass and preserves insulin action in aging male fischer 344 rats independent of energy restriction.,reduced dietary methionine intake (0.17% methionine  mr) and calorie restriction (cr) prolong lifespan in male fischer 344 rats. although the mechanisms are unclear  both regimens feature lower body weight and reductions in adiposity. reduced fat deposition in cr is linked to preservation of insulin responsiveness in older animals. these studies examine the relationship between insulin responsiveness and visceral fat in mr and test whether  despite lower food intake observed in mr animals  decreased visceral fat accretion and preservation of insulin sensitivity is not secondary to cr. accordingly  rats pair fed (pf) control diet (0.86% methinone  cf) to match the food intake of mr for 80 weeks exhibit insulin  glucose  and leptin levels similar to control-fed animals and comparable amounts of visceral fat. conversely  mr rats show significantly reduced visceral fat compared to cf and pf with concomitant decreases in basal insulin  glucose  and leptin  and increased adiponectin and triiodothyronine. daily energy expenditure in mr animals significantly exceeds that of both pf and cf. in a separate cohort  insulin responses of older mr animals as measured by oral glucose challenge are similar to young animals. longitudinal assessments of mr and cf through 112 weeks of age reveal that mr prevents age-associated increases in serum lipids. by 16 weeks  mr animals show a 40% reduction in insulin-like growth factor-1 (igf-1) that is sustained throughout life; cf igf-1 levels decline much later  beginning at 112 weeks. collectively  the results indicate that mr reduces visceral fat and preserves insulin activity in aging rats independent of energy restriction.
3396,transient delivery of modified mrna encoding tert rapidly extends telomeres in human cells.,telomere extension has been proposed as a means to improve cell culture and tissue engineering and to treat disease. however  telomere extension by nonviral  nonintegrating methods remains inefficient. here we report that delivery of modified mrna encoding tert to human fibroblasts and myoblasts increases telomerase activity transiently (24-48 h) and rapidly extends telomeres  after which telomeres resume shortening. three successive transfections over a 4 d period extended telomeres up to 0.9 kb in a cell type-specific manner in fibroblasts and myoblasts and conferred an additional 28 ± 1.5 and 3.4 ± 0.4 population doublings (pds)  respectively. proliferative capacity increased in a dose-dependent manner. the second and third transfections had less effect on proliferative capacity than the first  revealing a refractory period. however  the refractory period was transient as a later fourth transfection increased fibroblast proliferative capacity by an additional 15.2 ± 1.1 pds  similar to the first transfection. overall  these treatments led to an increase in absolute cell number of more than 10(12)-fold. notably  unlike immortalized cells  all treated cell populations eventually stopped increasing in number and expressed senescence markers to the same extent as untreated cells. this rapid method of extending telomeres and increasing cell proliferative capacity without risk of insertional mutagenesis should have broad utility in disease modeling  drug screening  and regenerative medicine.
3398,umbilical cord blood therapy potentiated with erythropoietin for children with cerebral palsy: a double-blind  randomized  placebo-controlled trial,allogeneic umbilical cord blood (ucb) has therapeutic potential for cerebral palsy (cp). concomitant administration of recombinant human erythropoietin (rhepo) may boost the efficacy of ucb  as it has neurotrophic effects. the objectives of this study were to assess the safety and efficacy of allogeneic ucb potentiated with rhepo in children with cp. children with cp were randomly assigned to one of three parallel groups: the pucb group  which received allogeneic ucb potentiated with rhepo; the epo group  which received rhepo and placebo ucb; and the control group  which received placebo ucb and placebo rhepo. all participants received rehabilitation therapy. the main outcomes were changes in scores on the following measures during the 6 months treatment period: the gross motor performance measure (gmpm)  gross motor function measure  and bayley scales of infant development-ii (bsid-ii) mental and motor scales (18). f-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (18f-fdg-pet/ct) and diffusion tensor images (dti) were acquired at baseline and followed up to detect changes in the brain. in total  96 subjects completed the study. compared with the epo (n = 33) and control (n = 32) groups  the pucb (n = 31) group had significantly higher scores on the gmpm and bsid-ii mental and motor scales at 6 months. dti revealed significant correlations between the gmpm increment and changes in fractional anisotropy in the pucb group. 18f-fdg-pet/ct showed differential activation and deactivation patterns between the three groups. the incidence of serious adverse events did not differ between groups. in conclusion  ucb treatment ameliorated motor and cognitive dysfunction in children with cp undergoing active rehabilitation  accompanied by structural and metabolic changes in the brain.
3400,muc1 oncoprotein activates the iκb kinase β complex and constitutive nf-κb signalling,nuclear factor-κb (nf-κb) is constitutively activated in diverse human malignancies by mechanisms that are not understood. the muc1 oncoprotein is aberrantly overexpressed by most human carcinomas and  similarly to nf-κb  blocks apoptosis and induces transformation. this study demonstrates that overexpression of muc1 in human carcinoma cells is associated with constitutive activation of nf-κb p65. we show that muc1 interacts with the high-molecular-weight iκb kinase (ikk) complex in vivo and that the muc1 cytoplasmic domain binds directly to ikkβ and ikkγ. interaction of muc1 with both ikkβ and ikkγ is necessary for ikkβ activation  resulting in phosphorylation and degradation of iκbα. studies in non-malignant epithelial cells show that muc1 is recruited to the tnf-r1 complex and interacts with ikkβ–ikkγ in response to tnfα stimulation. tnfα-induced recruitment of muc1 is dependent on tradd and traf2  but not the death-domain kinase rip1. in addition  muc1-mediated activation of ikkβ is dependent on tak1 and tab2. these findings indicate that muc1 is important for physiological activation of ikkβ and that overexpression of muc1  as found in human cancers  confers sustained induction of the ikkβ–nf-κb p65 pathway.
3402,nitric oxide synthase generates superoxide and nitric oxide in arginine-depleted cells leading to peroxynitrite-mediated cellular injury.,besides synthesizing nitric oxide (no)  purified neuronal no synthase (nnos) can produce superoxide (.o2-) at lower l-arg concentrations. by using electron paramagnetic resonance spin-trapping techniques  we monitored no and .o2- formation in nnos-transfected human kidney 293 cells. in control transfected cells  the ca2+ ionophore a23187 triggered no generation but no .o2- was seen. with cells in l-arg-free medium  we observed .o2- formation that increased as the cytosolic l-arg levels decreased  while no generation declined. .o2- formation was virtually abolished by the specific nos blocker  n-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester (l-name). nitrotyrosine  a specific nitration product of peroxynitrite  accumulated in l-arg-depleted cells but not in control cells. activation by a23187 was cytotoxic to l-arg-depleted  but not to control cells  with marked lactate dehydrogenase release. the cytotoxicity was largely prevented by either superoxide dismutase or l-name. thus  with reduced l-arg availability nos elicits cytotoxicity by generating .o2- and no that interact to form the potent oxidant peroxynitrite. regulating arginine levels may provide a therapeutic approach to disorders involving .o2-/no-mediated cellular injury.
3404,inter-viral conflicts that exploit host crispr immune systems of sulfolobus.,infection of sulfolobus islandicus rey15a with mixtures of different sulfolobus viruses  including stsv2  did not induce spacer acquisition by the host crispr immune system. however  coinfection with the tailed fusiform viruses smv1 and stsv2 generated hyperactive spacer acquisition in both crispr loci  exclusively from stsv2  with the resultant loss of stsv2 but not smv1. smv1 was shown to activate adaptation while itself being resistant to crispr-mediated adaptation and dna interference. exceptionally  a single clone s-1 isolated from an smv1 + stsv2-infected culture  that carried stsv2-specific spacers and had lost stsv2 but not smv1  acquired spacers from smv1. this effect was also reproducible on reinfecting wild-type host cells with a variant smv1 isolated from the s-1 culture. the smv1 variant lacked a virion protein orf114 that was shown to bind dna. this study also provided evidence for: (i) limits on the maximum sizes of crispr loci; (ii) spacer uptake strongly retarding growth of infected cultures; (iii) protospacer selection being essentially random and non-directional  and (iv) the reversible uptake of spacers from stsv2 and smv1. a hypothesis is presented to explain the interactive conflicts between smv1 and the host crispr immune system.
3406,prion-induced amyloid heart disease with high blood infectivity in transgenic mice.,we investigated extraneural manifestations in scrapie-infected transgenic mice expressing prion protein lacking the glycophosphatydylinositol membrane anchor. in the brain  blood  and heart  both abnormal protease-resistant prion protein (prpres) and prion infectivity were readily detected by immunoblot and by inoculation into nontransgenic recipients. the titer of infectious scrapie in blood plasma exceeded 10(7) 50% infectious doses per milliliter. the hearts of these transgenic mice contained prpres-positive amyloid deposits that led to myocardial stiffness and cardiac disease.
3408,short term persistence of human papillomavirus and risk of cervical precancer and cancer: population based cohort study,objective to evaluate the cumulative incidence of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia ii or worse (grade ii+) or cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade iii+ after short term persistence of prevalently detected carcinogenic human papillomavirus (hpv). design population based cohort study. setting guanacaste  costa rica. participants 2282 sexually active women actively followed after enrolment. main outcome measures primary end points: three year and five year cumulative incidence of histologically confirmed cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade ii+ (n=70). cervical specimens collected at each visit tested for more than 40 hpv genotypes. hpv 16  18  26  31  33  35  39  45  51  52  56  58  59  66  68  73  and 82 were considered the primary carcinogenic genotypes. results women who tested positive for a carcinogenic hpv at enrolment and after about one year (9-21 months) (positive/positive) had a three year cumulative incidence of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade ii+ of 17.0% (95% confidence interval 12.1% to 22.0%). those who tested negative/positive (3.4%  0.1% to 6.8%)  positive/negative (1.2%  -0.2% to 2.5%)  and negative/negative (0.5%  0.1% to 0.9%) were at a significantly lower risk. there was little difference in the cumulative incidence of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade ii+ between testing positive twice for any carcinogenic hpv genotype (same genotype or different genotypes) v testing positive twice for the same carcinogenic genotype (17.0% v 21.3%  respectively). short term persistence of hpv 16 strongly predicted cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade ii+  with a three year cumulative incidence of 40.8% (26.4% to 55.1%). similar patterns were observed for the five year cumulative incidence of grade ii+ and for three year and five year cumulative incidence of grade iii+. conclusions short term persistence of a prevalently detected carcinogenic hpv infection  especially hpv 16  strongly predicts a subsequent diagnosis of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia ii+ over the next few years.
3410,the influence of some metabolic inhibitors on phagocytic activity of mouse macrophages in vitro.,the action of different metabolic inhibitors on phagocytosis by macrophages from mouse peritoneal exudate cultured in vitro was studied. the following metabolic inhibitors were tested: sodium iodoacetate  sodium fluoride  sodium fluoroacetate  sodium malonate  2-4-dinitrophenol  sodium azide  ouabain and cycloheximide  all at the concentration of 10(-3) m. iodoacetate caused a strong inhibitory effect on phagocytosis; this observation confirms that glycolysis is the main source of energy for the phagocytic process. on the contrary  fluoride  although it is an effective inhibitor of glycolysis  did not exert any effect. this difference may be explained by the fact that sodium fluoride blocks anaerobic glycolysis only in vitro at an unphysiological temperature (0 degrees c). fluoroacetate and malonate  two compounds which interfere with the krebs cycle  did not inhibit phagocytosis  but it is known that the krebs cycle activity is poorly developed in the macrophagic cells. sodium azide and 2-4-dinitrophenol  two inhibitors of oxidative phosphorylation  showed an effect on phagocytosis only after 3 h of contact with the cell cultures. ouabain blocks na+ and k+ transport across the plasma membrane and  probably  it inhibited phagocytosis by interfering with the movements of the cell membrane. finally  the mode of action of cycloheximide on phagocytosis is uncertain. this compound inhibits the protein synthesis and  perhaps  it can act by preventing the renewal of the cell membrane.
3412,cloning of factors related to hiv-inducible lbp proteins that regulate steroidogenic factor-1-independent human placental transcription of the cholesterol side-chain cleavage enzyme  p450scc.,the cholesterol side-chain cleavage enzyme  cytochrome p450scc  initiates the biosynthesis of all steroid hormones. adrenal and gonadal strategies for p450scc gene transcription are essentially identical and depend on the orphan nuclear receptor steroidogenic factor-1  but the placental strategy for transcription of p450scc employs cis-acting elements different from those used in the adrenal strategy and is independent of steroidogenic factor-1. because placental expression of p450scc is required for human pregnancy  we sought factors that bind to the -155/-131 region of the human p450scc promoter  which participates in its placental but not adrenal or gonadal transcription. a yeast one-hybrid screen of 2.4 x 10(6) cdna clones from human placental jeg-3 cells yielded two unique clones; one is the previously described transcription factor lbp-1b  which is induced by hiv  type i infection of lymphocytes  and the other is a new factor  termed lbp-9  that shares 83% amino acid sequence identity with lbp-1b. when expressed in transfected yeast  both factors bound specifically to the -155/-131 dna; antisera to lbp proteins supershifted the lbp-9.dna complex and inhibited formation of the lbp-1b. dna complex. reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction detected lbp-1b in human placental jeg-3  adrenal nci-h295a  liver hepg2  cervical hela  and monkey kidney cos-1 cells  but lbp-9 was detected only in jeg-3 cells. when the -155/-131 fragment was linked to a minimal promoter  co-expression of lbp-1b increased transcription 21-fold in a dose-dependent fashion  but addition of lbp-9 suppressed the stimulatory effect of lbp-1b. the roles of lbp transcription factors in normal human physiology have been unclear. their modulation of placental but not adrenal p450scc transcription underscores the distinctiveness of placental strategies for steroidogenic enzyme gene transcription.
3414,histone methyltransferase activity associated with a human multiprotein complex containing the enhancer of zeste protein.,enhancer of zeste [e(z)] is a polycomb-group transcriptional repressor and one of the founding members of the family of set domain-containing proteins. several set-domain proteins possess intrinsic histone methyltransferase (hmt) activity. however  recombinant e(z) protein was found to be inactive in a hmt assay. here we report the isolation of a multiprotein e(z) complex that contains extra sex combs  suppressor of zeste-12 [su(z)12]  and the histone binding proteins rbap46/rbap48. this complex  which we termed polycomb repressive complex (prc) 2  possesses hmt activity with specificity for lys 9 (k9) and lys 27 (k27) of histone h3. the hmt activity of prc2 is dependent on an intact set domain in the e(z) protein. we hypothesize that transcriptional repression by the e(z) protein involves methylation-dependent recruitment of prc1. the presence of su(z)12  a strong suppressor of position effect variegation  in prc2 suggests that prc2 may play a widespread role in heterochromatin-mediated silencing.
3416,transmission of sporadic creutzfeldt-jakob disease by blood transfusion: risk factor or possible biases.,background the occurrence of transfusion transmissions of variant creutzfeldt-jakob disease (cjd) cases has reawakened attention to the possible similar risk posed by other forms of cjd. study design and methods cjd with a definite or probable diagnosis (sporadic cjd  n = 741; genetic cjd  n = 175) and no-cjd patients with definite alternative diagnosis (n = 482) with available blood transfusion history were included in the study. the risk of exposure to blood transfusion occurring more than 10 years before disease onset and for some possible confounding factors was evaluated by calculating crude odds ratios (ors). variables with significant ors in univariate analyses were included in multivariate logistic regression analyses. results in the univariate model  blood transfusion occurring more than 10 years before clinical onset is 4.1-fold more frequent in sporadic cjd than in other neurologic disorders. this significance is lost when the 10-year lag time was not considered. multivariate analyses show that the risk of developing sporadic cjd after transfusion increases (or  5.05) after adjusting for possible confounding factors. analysis conducted on patients with genetic cjd did not reveal any significant risk factor associated with transfusion. conclusion this is the first case-control study showing a significant risk of transfusion occurring more than 10 years before clinical onset in sporadic cjd patients. it remains questionable whether the significance of these data is biologically plausible or the consequence of biases in the design of the study  but they counterbalance previous epidemiologic negative reports that might have overestimated the assessment of blood safety in sporadic cjd.
3418,catalytic-independent functions of parp-1 determine sox2 pioneer activity at intractable genomic loci.,pioneer transcription factors (tfs) function as genomic first responders  binding to inaccessible regions of chromatin to promote enhancer formation. the mechanism by which pioneer tfs gain access to chromatin remains an important unanswered question. here we show that parp-1  a nucleosome-binding protein  cooperates with intrinsic properties of the pioneer tf sox2 to facilitate its binding to intractable genomic loci in embryonic stem cells. these actions of parp-1 occur independently of its poly(adp-ribosyl) transferase activity. parp-1-dependent sox2-binding sites reside in euchromatic regions of the genome with relatively high nucleosome occupancy and low co-occupancy by other transcription factors. parp-1 stabilizes sox2 binding to nucleosomes at suboptimal sites through cooperative interactions on dna. our results define intrinsic and extrinsic features that determine sox2 pioneer activity. the conditional pioneer activity observed with sox2 at a subset of binding sites may be a key feature of other pioneer tfs operating at intractable genomic loci.
3420,a core subunit of polycomb repressive complex 1 is broadly conserved in function but not primary sequence.,polycomb group (pcg) proteins mediate heritable gene silencing by modifying chromatin structure. an essential pcg complex  prc1  compacts chromatin and inhibits chromatin remodeling. in drosophila melanogaster  the intrinsically disordered c-terminal region of psc (psc-ctr) mediates these noncovalent effects on chromatin  and is essential for viability. because the psc-ctr sequence is poorly conserved  the significance of its effects on chromatin outside of drosophila was unclear. the absence of folded domains also made it difficult to understand how the sequence of psc-ctr encodes its function. to determine the mechanistic basis and extent of conservation of psc-ctr activity  we identified 17 metazoan psc-ctrs spanning chordates to arthropods  and examined their sequence features and biochemical properties. psc-ctr sequences are poorly conserved  but are all highly charged and structurally disordered. we show that active psc-ctrs--which bind dna tightly and inhibit chromatin remodeling efficiently--are distinguished from less active ones by the absence of extended negatively charged stretches. psc-ctr activity can be increased by dispersing its contiguous negative charge  confirming the importance of this property. using the sequence properties defined as important for psc-ctr activity  we predicted the presence of active psc-ctrs in additional diverse genomes. our analysis reveals broad conservation of psc-ctr activity across metazoans. this conclusion could not have been determined from sequence alignments. we further find that plants that lack active psc-ctrs instead possess a functionally analogous pcg protein  emf1. thus  our study suggests that a disordered domain with dispersed negative charges underlies prc1 activity  and is conserved across metazoans and plants.
3422,regulation of pax-3 expression in the dermomyotome and its role in muscle development.,the segmented mesoderm in vertebrates gives rise to a variety of cell types in the embryo including the axial skeleton and muscle. a number of transcription factors containing a paired domain (pax proteins) are expressed in the segmented mesoderm during embryogenesis. these include pax-3 and a closely related gene  pax-7  both of which are expressed in the segmental plate and in the dermomyotome. in this paper  we show that signals from the notochord pattern the expression of pax-3  pax-7 and pax-9 in somites and the subsequent differentiation of cell types that arise from the somitic mesoderm. we directly assess the role of the pax-3 gene in the differentiation of cell types derived from the dermomyotome by analyzing the development of muscle in splotch mouse embryos which lack a functional pax-3 gene. a population of pax-3-expressing cells derived from the dermomyotome that normally migrate into the limb are absent in homozygous splotch embryos and  as a result  limb muscles are lost. no abnormalities were detected in the trunk musculature of splotch embryos indicating that pax-3 is necessary for the development of the limb but not trunk muscle.
3424,bacteremia caused by a strain of desulfovibrio related to the provisionally named desulfovibrio fairfieldensis.,eight isolates of desulfovibrio spp. have been obtained over 5 years from abdominal or brain abscesses or blood. seven isolates were part of a mixed flora [corrected]. one strain was isolated in pure culture from the blood of a patient with peritonitis of appendicular origin. according to the 16s rrna gene sequences  this strain was close to desulfovibrio fairfieldensis. the present report describes the fourth isolate of this recently described species to be isolated in pure culture or as a predominant part of the flora and to be associated with infectious processes. thus  d. fairfieldensis may possess a higher pathogenic potential than other desulfovibrio species.
3426,cyclin d1 activation in b-cell malignancy: association with changes in histone acetylation  dna methylation  and rna polymerase ii binding to both promoter and distal sequences.,cyclin d1 expression is deregulated by chromosome translocation in mantle cell lymphoma and a subset of multiple myeloma. the molecular mechanisms involved in long-distance gene deregulation remain obscure  although changes in acetylated histones and methylated cpg dinucleotides may be important. the patterns of dna methylation and histone acetylation were determined at the cyclin d1 locus on chromosome 11q13 in b-cell malignancies. the cyclin d1 promoter was hypomethylated and hyperacetylated in expressing cell lines and patient samples  and methylated and hypoacetylated in nonexpressing cell lines. domains of hyperacetylated histones and hypomethylated dna extended over 120 kb upstream of the cyclin d1 gene. interestingly  hypomethylated dna and hyperacetylated histones were also located at the cyclin d1 promoter but not the upstream major translocation cluster region in cyclin d1-nonexpressing  nontumorigenic b and t cells. rna polymerase ii binding was demonstrated both at the cyclin d1 promoter and 3' immunoglobulin heavy-chain regulatory regions only in malignant b-cell lines with deregulated cyclin d1 expression. our results suggest a model where rna polymerase ii bound at igh regulatory sequences can activate the cyclin d1 promoter by either long-range polymerase transfer or tracking.
3428,a review of psychosocial needs of breast-cancer patients and their relatives.,aim to identify the psychosocial needs of breast-cancer patients and their relatives along with factors affecting these needs and to develop a tentative model to guide further research and need assessments in clinical practice. background women experiencing breast cancer must deal with the diagnosis of a life-threatening illness. treatment and the recovery process can be demanding for patients and their relatives. need assessment may help clinicians focus on providing appropriate help. design literature review. method undertaken using electronic databases and specific research terms; 20 articles were identified and analysed. results the needs identified by patients involve (1) treatment-related physical and social impairment like fatigue  menopausal symptoms and a changed body image and (2) emotional distress like fear of recurrence  anxiety and depression. partners need help to protect themselves and the patient from different threats. women need information to maintain control and manage their illness. partners want information concerning the patient's condition and both of them about the prognosis and perspectives. there is a lack of knowledge of relatives' needs. mutual familial support  women's and partners' health and emotional distress may affect the interaction between the patients and their partners. conclusions a tentative family-based model to guide further research and clinical support is proposed. further research is needed to determine precisely which psychosocial factors may influence fulfilment of the patients' and relatives' needs. relevance to clinical practice the proposed model may provide a framework for healthcare professionals to evaluate the patients' and relatives' met and unmet needs and the real demand for help  to guide care planning  counselling and education.
3430,emergency contraception: advance provision in a young  high-risk clinic population.,objective to assess whether advance provision of emergency contraception increases its use and whether it has secondary effects on regular contraceptive use. methods we conducted a controlled trial of female clients  aged 16-24 years  who attended a publicly funded family planning clinic. women were systematically assigned to receive an advance provision of emergency contraception and education (treatment) or education only (control). among 263 participants enrolled (133 treatment  130 control)  follow-up was completed in 213 (111 treatment  102 control). the main outcome measures were emergency contraception knowledge and use  frequency of unprotected sex  and pattern of contraceptive use in the past 4 months. results participants were aware of emergency contraception at follow-up  but the treatment group was three times as likely to use it (p =.006). although the treatment group did not report higher frequencies of unprotected sex than the control group  women in the treatment group (28%) were more likely than those in the control group (17%) to report using less effective contraception at follow-up compared with enrollment (p =.05). the proportion of women in both groups who reported consistent pill use increased from enrollment to follow-up (34% versus 45%); however  the control group (58%) was more likely than the treatment group (32%) to report consistent pill use at follow-up (p =.03). conclusion use of emergency contraception was increased by providing it in advance  but not by education alone. changes to less effective contraceptive methods and patterns of pill use were potentially negative effects that need to be explored in relation to observed benefits.
3432,prion-like activity of cu/zn superoxide dismutase: implications for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.,neurodegenerative diseases belong to a larger group of protein misfolding disorders  known as proteinopathies. there is increasing experimental evidence implicating prion-like mechanisms in many common neurodegenerative disorders  including alzheimer disease  parkinson disease  the tauopathies  and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (als)  all of which feature the aberrant misfolding and aggregation of specific proteins. the prion paradigm provides a mechanism by which a mutant or wild-type protein can dominate pathogenesis through the initiation of self-propagating protein misfolding. als  a lethal disease characterized by progressive degeneration of motor neurons is understood as a classical proteinopathy; the disease is typified by the formation of inclusions consisting of aggregated protein within and around motor neurons that can contribute to neurotoxicity. it is well established that misfolded/oxidized sod1 protein is highly toxic to motor neurons and plays a prominent role in the pathology of als. recent work has identified propagated protein misfolding properties in both mutant and wild-type sod1  which may provide the molecular basis for the clinically observed contiguous spread of the disease through the neuroaxis. in this review we examine the current state of knowledge regarding the prion-like properties of sod1 and comment on its proposed mechanisms of intercellular transmission.
3434,clinical and laboratory features of adult t-cell leukaemia lymphoma in barbados.,we describe the clinical and pathological features of 23 afro-caribbean patients with adult t-cell leukaemia/lymphoma admitted to the queen elizabeth hospital  barbados over a 5 year period. there were 9 males and 14 females  with a median age of 38 years (range 14-84). twelve had acute leukaemia  10 lymphoma (including 4 with solitary extra nodal lesions) and 1 smouldering subtype. two patients had a past history of tropical spastic paraparesis/htlv i associated myelopathy (tsp/ham). the prognosis was poor  with only 3 complete responses to chemotherapy (chop) lasting from 9 to 36 months. we conclude that atll in barbados is similar to the disease in the other caribbean islands and japan  except that in barbados the age of onset is over a decade younger than in japan.
3436,crystal structures of complexes of the small ribosomal subunit with tetracycline  edeine and if3.,the small ribosomal subunit is responsible for the decoding of genetic information and plays a key role in the initiation of protein synthesis. we analyzed by x-ray crystallography the structures of three different complexes of the small ribosomal subunit of thermus thermophilus with the a-site inhibitor tetracycline  the universal initiation inhibitor edeine and the c-terminal domain of the translation initiation factor if3. the crystal structure analysis of the complex with tetracycline revealed the functionally important site responsible for the blockage of the a-site. five additional tetracycline sites resolve most of the controversial biochemical data on the location of tetracycline. the interaction of edeine with the small subunit indicates its role in inhibiting initiation and shows its involvement with p-site trna. the location of the c-terminal domain of if3  at the solvent side of the platform  sheds light on the formation of the initiation complex  and implies that the anti-association activity of if3 is due to its influence on the conformational dynamics of the small ribosomal subunit.
3438,dexamethasone and risk of nausea and vomiting and postoperative bleeding after tonsillectomy in children: a randomized trial.,context dexamethasone is widely used to prevent postoperative nausea and vomiting (ponv) in pediatric tonsillectomy. objective to assess whether dexamethasone dose-dependently reduces the risk of ponv at 24 hours after tonsillectomy. design  setting  and patients randomized placebo-controlled trial conducted among 215 children undergoing elective tonsillectomy at a major public teaching hospital in switzerland from february 2005 to december 2007. interventions children were randomly assigned to receive dexamethasone (0.05  0.15  or 0.5 mg/kg) or placebo intravenously after induction of anesthesia. acetaminophen-codeine and ibuprofen were given as postoperative analgesia. follow-up continued until the 10th postoperative day. main outcome measures the primary end point was prevention of ponv at 24 hours; secondary end points were decrease in the need for ibuprofen at 24 hours and evaluation of adverse effects. results at 24 hours  24 of 54 participants who received placebo (44%; 95% confidence interval [ci]  31%-59%) had experienced ponv compared with 20 of 53 (38%; 95% ci  25%-52%)  13 of 54 (24%; 95% ci  13%-38%)  and 6 of 52 (12%; 95% ci  4%-23%) who received dexamethasone at 0.05  0.15  and 0.5 mg/kg  respectively (p<.001 for linear trend). children who received dexamethasone received significantly less ibuprofen. there were 26 postoperative bleeding episodes in 22 children. two of 53 (4%; 95% ci  0.5%-13%) children who received placebo had bleeding compared with 6 of 53 (11%; 95% ci  4%-23%)  2 of 51 (4%; 95% ci  0.5%-13%)  and 12 of 50 (24%; 95% ci  13%-38%) who received dexamethasone at 0.05  0.15  and 0.5 mg/kg  respectively (p = .003). dexamethasone  0.5 mg/kg  was associated with the highest bleeding risk (adjusted relative risk  6.80; 95% ci  1.77-16.5). eight children had to undergo emergency reoperation because of bleeding  all of whom had received dexamethasone. the trial was stopped early for safety reasons. conclusion in this study of children undergoing tonsillectomy  dexamethasone decreased the risk of ponv dose dependently but was associated with an increased risk of postoperative bleeding. trial registration clinicaltrials.gov identifier: nct00403806.
3440,cyclin a1 is required for meiosis in the male mouse,the mammalian a-type cyclin family consists of two members  cyclin a1 (encoded by ccna1) and cyclin a2 (encoded by ccna2). cyclin a2 promotes both g1/s and g2/m transitions  and targeted deletion of ccna2 in mouse is embryonic lethal. cyclin a1 is expressed in mice exclusively in the germ cell lineage and is expressed in humans at highest levels in the testis and certain myeloid leukaemia cells. to investigate the role of cyclin a1 and possible redundancy among the cyclins in vivo  we generated mice bearing a null mutation of ccna1. ccna1-/- males were sterile due to a block of spermatogenesis before the first meiotic division  whereas females were normal. meiosis arrest in ccna1–/– males was associated with increased germ cell apoptosis  desynapsis abnormalities and reduction of cdc2 kinase activation at the end of meiotic prophase. cyclin a1 is therefore essential for spermatocyte passage into the first meiotic division in male mice  a function that cannot be complemented by the concurrently expressed b-type cyclins.
3442,acute kidney injury and chronic kidney disease: an integrated clinical syndrome.,the previous conventional wisdom that survivors of acute kidney injury (aki) tend to do well and fully recover renal function appears to be flawed. aki can cause end-stage renal disease (esrd) directly  and increase the risk of developing incident chronic kidney disease (ckd) and worsening of underlying ckd. in addition  severity  duration  and frequency of aki appear to be important predictors of poor patient outcomes. ckd is an important risk factor for the development and ascertainment of aki. experimental data support the clinical observations and the bidirectional nature of the relationships between aki and ckd. reductions in renal mass and nephron number  vascular insufficiency  cell cycle disruption  and maladaptive repair mechanisms appear to be important modulators of progression in patients with and without coexistent ckd. distinction between aki and ckd may be artificial. consideration should be given to the integrated clinical syndrome of diminished gfr  with acute and chronic stages  where spectrum of disease state and outcome is determined by host factors  including the balance of adaptive and maladaptive repair mechanisms over time. physicians must provide long-term follow-up to patients with first episodes of aki  even if they presented with normal renal function.
3444,common and rare variants in multifactorial susceptibility to common diseases,here  we give a historical overview of the search for genetic variants that influence the susceptibility of an individual to a chronic disease  from ra fisher's seminal work to the current excitement of whole-genome association studies (wgas). we then discuss the concepts behind the identification of common variants as disease causal factors and contrast them to the basic ideas that underlie the rare variant hypothesis. the identification of rare variants involves the careful selection of candidate genes to examine  the availability of highly efficient resequencing techniques and the appropriate assessment of the functional consequences of the implicated variant. we believe that this strategy can be successfully applied at present in order to unravel the contribution of rare variants to the multifactorial inheritance of common diseases  which could lead to the implementation of much needed preventative screening schemes.
3446,fibroblast growth factor 21 as an emerging metabolic regulator: clinical perspectives.,fibroblast growth factor 21 (fgf21)  a metabolic hormone predominantly produced by the liver  is also expressed in adipocytes and the pancreas. it regulates glucose and lipid metabolism through pleiotropic actions in these tissues and the brain. in mice  fasting leads to increased ppar-α mediated expression of fgf21 in the liver where it stimulates gluconeogenesis  fatty acid oxidation  and ketogenesis  as an adaptive response to fasting and starvation. in the fed state  fgf21 acts as an autocrine factor in adipocytes  regulating the activity of ppar-γ through a feed-forward loop mechanism. administration of recombinant fgf21 has been shown to confer multiple metabolic benefits on insulin sensitivity  blood glucose  lipid profile and body weight in obese mice and diabetic monkeys  without mitogenic or other side effects. such findings highlight the potential role of fgf21 as a therapeutic agent for obesity-related medical conditions. however  in human studies  high circulating fgf21 levels are found in obesity and its related cardiometabolic disorders including the metabolic syndrome  type 2 diabetes  non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and coronary artery disease. these findings may indicate the presence of fgf21 resistance or compensatory responses to the underlying metabolic stress  and imply the need for supraphysiological doses of fgf21 to achieve therapeutic efficacy. on the other hand  serum fgf21 has been implicated as a potential biomarker for the early detection of these cardiometabolic disorders. this review summarizes recent developments in the understanding of fgf21  from physiological and clinical perspectives.
3448,bioenergetic aspects of apoptosis  necrosis and mitoptosis,in this review i summarize interrelations between bioenergetic processes and such programmed death phenomena as cell suicide (apoptosis and necrosis) and mitochondrial suicide (mitoptosis). the following conclusions are made. (i) atp and rather often mitochondrial hyperpolarization (i.e. an increase in membrane potential  δψ) are required for certain steps of apoptosis and necrosis. (ii) apoptosis  even if it is accompanied by δψ and [atp] increases at its early stage  finally results in a δψ collapse and atp decrease. (iii) moderate (about three-fold) lowering of [atp] for short and long periods of time induces apoptosis and necrosis  respectively. in some types of apoptosis and necrosis  the cell death is mediated by a δψ-dependent overproduction of ros by the initial (complex i) and the middle (complex iii) spans of the respiratory chain. ros initiate mitoptosis which is postulated to rid the intracellular population of mitochondria from those that are ros overproducing. massive mitoptosis can result in cell death due to release to cytosol of the cell death proteins normally hidden in the mitochondrial intermembrane space.
3450,clip identifies nova-regulated rna networks in the brain.,nova proteins are neuron-specific antigens targeted in paraneoplastic opsoclonus myoclonus ataxia (poma)  an autoimmune neurologic disease characterized by abnormal motor inhibition. nova proteins regulate neuronal pre-messenger rna splicing by directly binding to rna. to identify nova rna targets  we developed a method to purify protein-rna complexes from mouse brain with the use of ultraviolet cross-linking and immunoprecipitation (clip).thirty-four transcripts were identified multiple times by nova clip.three-quarters of these encode proteins that function at the neuronal synapse  and one-third are involved in neuronal inhibition. splicing targets confirmed in nova-/- mice include c-jun n-terminal kinase 2  neogenin  and gephyrin; the latter encodes a protein that clusters inhibitory gamma-aminobutyric acid and glycine receptors  two previously identified nova splicing targets. thus  clip reveals that nova coordinately regulates a biologically coherent set of rnas encoding multiple components of the inhibitory synapse  an observation that may relate to the cause of abnormal motor inhibition in poma.
3452,the virb type iv secretion system of bartonella henselae mediates invasion  proinflammatory activation and antiapoptotic protection of endothelial cells.,bartonella henselae is an arthropod-borne zoonotic pathogen causing intraerythrocytic bacteraemia in the feline reservoir host and a broad range of clinical manifestations in incidentally infected humans. remarkably  b. henselae can specifically colonize the human vascular endothelium  resulting in inflammation and the formation of vasoproliferative lesions known as bacillary angiomatosis and bacillary peliosis. cultured human endothelial cells provide an in vitro system to study this intimate interaction of b. henselae with the vascular endothelium. however  little is known about the bacterial virulence factors required for this pathogenic process. recently  we identified the type iv secretion system (t4ss) virb as an essential pathogenicity factor in bartonella  required to establish intraerythrocytic infection in the mammalian reservoir. here  we demonstrate that the virb t4ss also mediates most of the virulence attributes associated with the interaction of b. henselae during the interaction with human endothelial cells. these include: (i) massive rearrangements of the actin cytoskeleton  resulting in the formation of bacterial aggregates and their internalization by the invasome structure; (ii) nuclear factor kappab-dependent proinflammatory activation  leading to cell adhesion molecule expression and chemokine secretion  and (iii) inhibition of apoptotic cell death  resulting in enhanced endothelial cell survival. moreover  we show that the virb system mediates cytostatic and cytotoxic effects at high bacterial titres  which interfere with a potent virb-independent mitogenic activity. we conclude that the virb t4ss is a major virulence determinant of b. henselae  required for targeting multiple endothelial cell functions exploited by this vasculotropic pathogen.
3454,screening for inhibition of vibrio cholerae vipa-vipb interaction identifies small-molecule compounds active against type vi secretion.,the type vi secretion system (t6ss) is the most prevalent bacterial secretion system and an important virulence mechanism utilized by gram-negative bacteria  either to target eukaryotic cells or to combat other microbes. the components show much variability  but some appear essential for the function  and two homologues  denoted vipa and vipb in vibrio cholerae  have been identified in all t6sss described so far. secretion is dependent on binding of an α-helical region of vipa to vipb  and in the absence of this binding  both components are degraded within minutes and secretion is ceased. the aim of the study was to investigate if this interaction could be blocked  and we hypothesized that such inhibition would lead to abrogation of t6s. a library of 9 600 small-molecule compounds was screened for their ability to block the binding of vipa-vipb in a bacterial two-hybrid system (b2h). after excluding compounds that showed cytotoxicity toward eukaryotic cells  that inhibited growth of vibrio  or that inhibited an unrelated b2h interaction  34 compounds were further investigated for effects on the t6ss-dependent secretion of hemolysin-coregulated protein (hcp) or of phospholipase a1 activity. two compounds  ks100 and ks200  showed intermediate or strong effects in both assays. analogues were obtained  and compounds with potent inhibitory effects in the assays and desirable physicochemical properties as predicted by in silico analysis were identified. since the compounds specifically target a virulence mechanism without affecting bacterial replication  they have the potential to mitigate the virulence with minimal risk for development of resistance.
3456,circulating micrornas as biomarkers for hepatocellular carcinoma.,goals we investigated whether measurement of serum levels of the micrornas (mirnas) mir-16  mir-195  and mir-199a  alone or in combination with conventional serum markers  can help to differentiate hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) from chronic liver diseases (clds). background recent reports suggest a link between aberrant expression of mirna  and hcc. study this retrospective analysis was conducted using sera from 105 hcc patients  107 cld patients  and 71 normal control subjects. the mirnas were measured using real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. the conventional hcc markers α-fetoprotein (afp)  lens culinaris agglutinin-reactive afp (afp-l3%)  and des-γ-carboxyprothrombin (dcp) were measured with commercial kits. results serum levels of mir-16 and mir-199a were significantly lower in hcc than in cld patients or control subjects (p<0.01). as a single marker  mir-16 had the highest sensitivity for hcc  followed by mir-199a  afp  dcp  afp-l3%  and mir-195. the combination of mir-16  afp  afp-l3%  and dcp yielded the optimal combination of sensitivity (92.4%) and specificity (78.5%) for hcc  overall and when analysis was restricted to patients with tumors size smaller than 3 cm. as a second-line hcc marker  mir-16 yielded positive hcc predictions in 18 of the 26 (69.2%) hcc patients with negative results on all 3 conventional markers  most of whom had tumors size smaller than 3 cm; mir-16 was falsely positive in only 12 of 96 (12.5%) cld patients. conclusions the addition of mir-16 to conventional serum markers improved sensitivity and specificity for hcc. use of mir-16 for second-line testing in cases considered negative on the basis of conventional hcc markers should be explored in larger  prospective studies.
3458,resolution of acute inflammation in the lung.,acute inflammation in the lung is essential to health. so too is its resolution. in response to invading microbes  noxious stimuli  or tissue injury  an acute inflammatory response is mounted to protect the host. to limit inflammation and prevent collateral injury of healthy  uninvolved tissue  the lung orchestrates the formation of specialized proresolving mediators  specifically lipoxins  resolvins  protectins  and maresins. these immunoresolvents are agonists for resolution that interact with specific receptors on leukocytes and structural cells to blunt further inflammation and promote catabasis. this process appears to be defective in several common lung diseases that are characterized by excess or chronic inflammation. here  we review the molecular and cellular effectors of resolution of acute inflammation in the lung.
3460,role of soluble guanylate cyclase in dilator responses of the cerebral microcirculation.,responses of cerebral blood vessels to nitric oxide (no) are mediated by soluble guanylate cyclase (sgc)-dependent and potentially by sgc-independent mechanisms. one sgc-independent mechanism by which no may produce vasodilatation is inhibition of formation of a vasoconstrictor metabolite produced through the cytochrome p450 pathway. in these experiments  we examined the hypothesis that dilatation of cerebral microvessels in response to no is dependent on activation of sgc. diameters of cerebral arterioles (baseline diameter=94+/-5 micrometers  mean+/-s.e.) were measured using a closed cranial window in anesthetized rabbits. under control conditions  yc-1 [3-(5'-hydroxymethyl-2'-furyl)-1-benzyl indazole]  an no-independent activator of sgc  produced vasodilation that was blocked by odq (1h-[1 2 4]oxadiazolo[4 3 -a]quinoxalin-1-one)(10 microm)  an inhibitor of sgc. these findings indicate that sgc is functionally important in cerebral arterioles. in addition  acetylcholine (which stimulates endogenous production of no by endothelium) produced dilatation of cerebral arterioles that was inhibited by odq. for example  1 microm acetylcholine dilated cerebral arterioles by 34+/-7 and 5+/-1% in the absence and presence of odq (10 microm)  respectively. increases in arteriolar diameter in response to sodium nitroprusside (1 microm  an no donor) were inhibited by approximately 80% by odq  but were not affected by 17-odya (10 microm) or clotrimazole (10 microm)  inhibitors of the cytochrome p450 pathway. thus  dilatation of the cerebral microcirculation in response to exogenously applied and endogenously produced no is dependent  in large part  on activation of sgc.
3462,paediatric hiv infection.,by the year 2000 there will be six million pregnant women and five to ten million children infected with hiv-1. intervention strategies have been planned and in some instances already started. a timely and cost-effective strategy needs to take into account that most hiv-1 infected individuals reside in developing countries. further studies are needed on immunological and virological factors affecting hiv-1 transmission from mother to child  on differential disease progression in affected children  and on transient infection.
3464,intrauterine factors and risk of breast cancer: a systematic review and meta-analysis of current evidence.,background emerging evidence suggests an association between female prenatal experience and her subsequent risk of developing breast cancer. potential underlying mechanisms include variation in amounts of maternal endogenous sex hormones and growth hormones  germ-cell mutations  formation of cancer stem-cells  and other genetic or epigenetic events. we reviewed and summarised quantitatively the available data on intrauterine exposures and risk of breast cancer. methods we systematically searched for studies that assessed association between perinatal factors and risk of breast cancer. we reviewed separately each of the perinatal factors  including birthweight  birth length  parental age at delivery  gestational age  intrauterine exposure to diethylstilbestrol  twin membership  maternal pre-eclampsia or eclampsia  and other factors. findings we identified 57 studies published between oct 1  1980  and june 21  2007. increased risk of breast cancer was noted with increased birthweight (relative risk [rr] 1.15 [95% ci 1.09-1.21])  birth length (1.28 [1.11-1.48])  higher maternal age (1.13 [1.02-1.25])  and paternal age (1.12 [1.05-1.19]). decreased risk of breast cancer was noted for maternal pre-eclampsia and eclampsia (0.48 [0.30-0.78]) and twin membership (0.93 [0.87-1.00]). no association was noted between risk of breast cancer and gestational age at birth (0.95 [0.71-1.26]) or maternal diethylstilbestrol treatment (1.40 [0.86-2.28]). interpretation the intrauterine environment contributes to the predisposition of women to breast cancer in adulthood. the in-utero mechanisms responsible for such predisposition need to be elucidated.
3466,metabolic interplay between glycolysis and mitochondrial oxidation: the reverse warburg effect and its therapeutic implication.,aerobic glycolysis  i.e.  the warburg effect  may contribute to the aggressive phenotype of hepatocellular carcinoma. however  increasing evidence highlights the limitations of the warburg effect  such as high mitochondrial respiration and low glycolysis rates in cancer cells. to explain such contradictory phenomena with regard to the warburg effect  a metabolic interplay between glycolytic and oxidative cells was proposed  i.e.  the "reverse warburg effect". aerobic glycolysis may also occur in the stromal compartment that surrounds the tumor; thus  the stromal cells feed the cancer cells with lactate and this interaction prevents the creation of an acidic condition in the tumor microenvironment. this concept provides great heterogeneity in tumors  which makes the disease difficult to cure using a single agent. understanding metabolic flexibility by lactate shuttles offers new perspectives to develop treatments that target the hypoxic tumor microenvironment and overcome the limitations of glycolytic inhibitors.
3468,a sumo-dependent protein network regulates chromosome congression during oocyte meiosis,during caenorhabditis elegans oocyte meiosis  a multi-protein ring complex (rc) localized between homologous chromosomes  promotes chromosome congression through the action of the chromokinesin klp-19. while some rc components are known  the mechanism of rc assembly has remained obscure. we show that sumo e3 ligase gei-17/pias is required for klp-19 recruitment to the rc  and proteomic analysis identified klp-19 as a sumo substrate in vivo. in vitro analysis revealed that klp-19 is efficiently sumoylated in a gei-17-dependent manner  while gei-17 undergoes extensive auto-sumoylation. gei-17 and another rc component  the kinase bub-1  contain functional sumo interaction motifs (sims)  allowing them to recruit sumo modified proteins  including klp-19  into the rc. thus  dynamic sumo modification and the presence of sims in rc components generate a sumo-sim network that facilitates assembly of the rc. our results highlight the importance of sumo-sim networks in regulating the assembly of dynamic protein complexes.
3470,interactions between sry and sox genes in mammalian sex determination.,the sry gene on the mammalian y chromosome undoubtedly acts to determine testis  but it is still quite unclear how. it was originally supposed that sry acts directly to activate other genes in the testis-determining pathway. this paper presents an alternative hypothesis that sry functions indirectly  by interacting with related genes sox3 (from which sry evolved) and sox9 (which appears to be intimately involved in vertebrate gonad differentiation). specifically  i propose that in females sox3 inhibits sox9 function  but in males  sry inhibits sox3 and permits sox9 to enact its testis-determining role. this hypothesis makes testable predictions of the phenotypes of xx and xy individuals with deficiencies or overproduction of any of the three genes  and is able to account for the difficult cases of xx(sry-) males and transdifferentiation in the absence of sry. the hypothesis also suggests a way that the dominant sry sex-determining system of present-day mammals may have evolved from an ancient system relying on sox3 dosage.
3472,spatial and temporal clusters of barmah forest virus disease in queensland  australia.,objective to identify the spatial and temporal clusters of barmah forest virus (bfv) disease in queensland in australia  using geographical information systems and spatial scan statistic (satscan). methods we obtained bfv disease cases  population and statistical local areas (slas) boundary data from queensland health and australian bureau of statistics  respectively  during 1992-2008 for queensland. a retrospective poisson-based analysis using satscan software and method was conducted to identify both purely spatial and space-time bfv disease high-rate clusters. a spatial cluster size of a proportion of the population and a 200 km radius and varying time windows from 1 to 12 months were chosen (for the space-time analysis). results the spatial scan statistic detected a most likely significant purely spatial cluster (including 23 slas) and a most likely significant space-time cluster (including 24 slas) in approximately the same location. significant secondary clusters were also identified from both the analyses in several locations. conclusions this study provides evidence of the existence of statistically significant bfv disease clusters in queensland  australia. the study also demonstrated the relevance and applicability of satscan in analysing ongoing surveillance data to identify clusters to facilitate the development of effective bfv disease prevention and control strategies in queensland  australia.
3474,liraglutide improves hippocampal synaptic plasticity associated with increased expression of mash1 in ob/ob mice,objective:consumption of high-fat diet exerts adverse effects on learning and memory formation  which is linked to impaired hippocampal function. activation of glucagon-like peptide-1 (glp-1) signalling ameliorates detrimental effects of obesity-diabetes on cognitive function; however  mechanisms underlying these beneficial actions remain unclear. this study examined effects of daily subcutaneous treatment with glp-1 mimetic  liraglutide  on synaptic plasticity  hippocampal gene expression and metabolic control in adult obese diabetic (ob/ob) mice. results:long-term potentiation (ltp) induced by area ca1 was completely abolished in ob/ob mice compared with lean controls. deleterious effects on ltp were rescued (p<0.001) with liraglutide. indeed  liraglutide-treated mice exhibited superior ltp profile compared with lean controls (p<0.01). expression of hippocampal brain-derived neurotropic factor and neurotrophic tyrosine kinase receptor-type 2 were not significantly different  but synaptophysin and mash1 were decreased in ob/ob mice. treatment with liraglutide over 21 days increased expression of mash1 in ob/ob mice (2.0-fold; p<0.01). these changes were associated with significantly reduced plasma glucose (21% reduction; p<0.05) and markedly improved plasma insulin concentrations (2.1- to 3.3-fold; p<0.05 to p<0.01). liraglutide also significantly reduced the glycaemic excursion following an intraperitonal glucose load (area under curve (auc) values: 22%; p<0.05) and markedly enhanced the insulin response to glucose (auc values: 1.6-fold; p<0.05). o2 consumption  co2 production  respiratory exchange ratio and energy expenditure were not altered by liraglutide therapy. on day 21  accumulated food intake (32% reduction; p<0.05) and number of feeding bouts (32% reduction; p<0.05) were significantly reduced but simple energy restriction was not responsible for the beneficial actions of liraglutide. conclusion:liraglutide elicits beneficial effects on metabolic control and synaptic plasticity in mice with severe obesity and insulin resistance mediated in part through increased expression of mash1 believed to improve hippocampal neurogenesis and cell survival.
3476,targeted proteomics reveals compositional dynamics of 60s pre-ribosomes after nuclear export,construction and intracellular targeting of eukaryotic pre-ribosomal particles involve a multitude of diverse transiently associating trans-acting assembly factors  energy-consuming enzymes  and transport factors. the ability to rapidly and reliably measure co-enrichment of multiple factors with maturing pre-ribosomal particles presents a major biochemical bottleneck towards revealing their function and the precise contribution of >50 energy-consuming steps that drive ribosome assembly. here  we devised a workflow that combines genetic trapping  affinity-capture  and selected reaction monitoring mass spectrometry (srm-ms)  to overcome this deficiency. we exploited this approach to interrogate the dynamic proteome of pre-60s particles after nuclear export. we uncovered assembly factors that travel with pre-60s particles to the cytoplasm  where they are released before initiating translation. notably  we identified a novel shuttling factor that facilitates nuclear export of pre-60s particles. capturing and quantitating protein interaction networks of trapped intermediates of macromolecular complexes by our workflow is a reliable discovery tool to unveil dynamic processes that contribute to their in vivo assembly and transport.
3478,reproducibility of 31p cardiac magnetic resonance spectroscopy at 3 t.,the purpose of this work was to take advantage of the new clinical field strength of 3 t to implement and optimize a chemical shift imaging (csi) acquisition protocol to produce spectra of high quality with high specificity to the myocardium within a clinically feasible scan time. further  an analysis method was implemented dependent purely on anatomical location of spectra  and as such free from any potential user bias caused by inference from spectral information. twenty healthy male subjects were scanned on two separate occasions using the optimized csi protocol at 3 t. data were analyzed for intra- and inter-subject variability  as well as intra- and inter-observer variability. the average phosphocreatine (pcr)/adenosine triphosphate (atp) value for scan 1 was 2.07 +/- 0.38 and for scan 2 was 2.14 +/- 0.46  showing no significant difference between scans. intra-subject variability was 0.43 +/- 0.35 (percentage difference 20%) and the inter-subject coefficient of variation was 18%. the intra-observer variability  assessed as the absolute difference between analyses of the data by a single observer  was 0.14 +/- 0.24 with no significant difference between analyses. the inter-observer variability showed no significant differences between the pcr/atp value measured by four different observers as demonstrated by an intra-class correlation coefficient of 0.763. the increased signal available at 3 t has improved spatial resolution and thereby increased myocardial specificity without any significant decrease in reproducibility over previous studies at 1.5 t. we present an acquisition protocol that routinely provides high quality spectra and a robust analysis method that is free from potential user bias.
3480,surgical resection for patients with solid brain metastases: current status,brain metastases occur in up to 40% of patients with cancer. their management has been revolutionized in the last decade by three developments: improved imaging and detection of metastases  better treatment of systemic disease with the result that metastases occur more often; and improved surgical techniques including image-guided surgery to treat metastatic lesions. class 1 data suggest that surgery is a better treatment for metastases than whole brain radiation. other data suggest that metastases even in eloquent cortex can be removed safely. the complication rate is low and the recurrence rate is less than 10%. in general  indications for surgery include a mass with an unknown primary; a symptomatic mass including one in eloquent areas; a mass with considerable edema requiring high dose steroids; a mass greater than 3 cm; or patient preference when radiosurgery may also be an option. the question of radiosurgery or whole brain radiation as adjunct to surgical removal requires further evaluation.
3482,the tof1p-csm3p protein complex counteracts the rrm3p helicase to control replication termination of saccharomyces cerevisiae.,termination of replication forks at the natural termini of the rdna of saccharomyces cerevisiae is controlled in a sequence-specific and polar mode by the interaction of the fob1p replication terminator protein with the tandem ter sites located in the nontranscribed spacers. here we show  by both 2d gel analyses and chromatin immunoprecipitations (chip)  that there exists a second level of global control mediated by the intra-s-phase checkpoint protein complex of tof1p and csm3p that protect stalled forks at ter sites against the activity of the rrm3p helicase ("sweepase"). the sweepase tends to release arrested forks presumably by the transient displacement of the ter-bound fob1p. consistent with this mechanism  very few replication forks were arrested at the natural replication termini in the absence of the two checkpoint proteins. in the absence of the rrm3p helicase  there was a slight enhancement of fork arrest at the ter sites. simultaneous deletions of the tof1 (or csm3)  and the rrm3 genes restored fork arrest by removing both the fork-releasing and fork-protection activities. other genes such as mrc1  wss1  and psy2 that are also involved in the mrc1 checkpoint pathway were not involved in this global control. this observation suggests that tof1p-csm3p function differently from mrc1 and the other above-mentioned genes. this mechanism is not restricted to the natural ter sites but was also observed at fork arrest caused by the meeting of a replication fork with transcription approaching from the opposite direction.
3484,the ketogenic diet for the treatment of childhood epilepsy: a randomised controlled trial.,background the ketogenic diet has been widely and successfully used to treat children with drug-resistant epilepsy since the 1920s. the aim of this study was to test the efficacy of the ketogenic diet in a randomised controlled trial. methods 145 children aged between 2 and 16 years who had at least daily seizures (or more than seven seizures per week)  had failed to respond to at least two antiepileptic drugs  and had not been treated previously with the ketogenic diet participated in a randomised controlled trial of its efficacy to control seizures. enrolment for the trial ran between december  2001  and july  2006. children were seen at one of two hospital centres or a residential centre for young people with epilepsy. children were randomly assigned to receive a ketogenic diet  either immediately or after a 3-month delay  with no other changes to treatment (control group). neither the family nor investigators were blinded to the group assignment. early withdrawals were recorded  and seizure frequency on the diet was assessed after 3 months and compared with that of the controls. the primary endpoint was a reduction in seizures; analysis was intention to treat. tolerability of the diet was assessed by questionnaire at 3 months. the trial is registered with clinicaltrials.gov  number nct00564915. findings 73 children were assigned to the ketogenic diet and 72 children to the control group. data from 103 children were available for analysis: 54 on the ketogenic diet and 49 controls. of those who did not complete the trial  16 children did not receive their intervention  16 did not provide adequate data  and ten withdrew from the treatment before the 3-month review  six because of intolerance. after 3 months  the mean percentage of baseline seizures was significantly lower in the diet group than in the controls (62.0%vs 136.9%  75% decrease  95% ci 42.4-107.4%; p<0.0001). 28 children (38%) in the diet group had greater than 50% seizure reduction compared with four (6%) controls (p<0.0001)  and five children (7%) in the diet group had greater than 90% seizure reduction compared with no controls (p=0.0582). there was no significant difference in the efficacy of the treatment between symptomatic generalised or symptomatic focal syndromes. the most frequent side-effects reported at 3-month review were constipation  vomiting  lack of energy  and hunger. interpretation the results from this trial of the ketogenic diet support its use in children with treatment-intractable epilepsy. funding hsa charitable trust; smiths charity; scientific hospital supplies; milk development council.
3486,sustained active site rigidity during synthesis by human dna polymerase μ,dna polymerase μ (pol μ) is the only template-dependent human dna polymerase capable of repairing double-strand dna breaks (dsbs) with unpaired 3′ ends in nonhomologous end joining (nhej). to probe this function  we structurally characterized pol μ's catalytic cycle for single-nucleotide incorporation. these structures indicate that  unlike other template-dependent dna polymerases  pol μ shows no large-scale conformational changes in protein subdomains  amino acid side chains or dna upon dntp binding or catalysis. instead  the only major conformational change is seen earlier in the catalytic cycle  when the flexible loop 1 region repositions upon dna binding. pol μ variants with changes in loop 1 have altered catalytic properties and are partially defective in nhej. the results indicate that specific loop 1 residues contribute to pol μ's unique ability to catalyze template-dependent nhej of dsbs with unpaired 3′ ends.
3488,vesicular trafficking of semaphorin 3a is activity-dependent and differs between axons and dendrites.,secreted semaphorins act as guidance cues in the developing nervous system and may have additional functions in mature neurons. how semaphorins are transported and secreted by neurons is poorly understood. we find that endogenous semaphorin 3a (sema3a) displays a punctate distribution in axons and dendrites of cultured cortical neurons. gfp-sema3a shows a similar distribution and co-localizes with secretory vesicle cargo proteins. live-cell imaging reveals highly dynamic trafficking of gfp-sema3a vesicles with distinct properties in axons and dendrites regarding directionality  velocity  mobility and pausing time. in axons  most gfp-sema3a vesicles move fast without interruption  almost exclusively in the anterograde direction  while in dendrites many gfp-sema3a vesicles are stationary and move equally frequent in both directions. disruption of microtubules  but not of actin filaments  significantly impairs gfp-sema3a transport. interestingly  depolarization induces a reversible arrest of axonal transport of gfp-sema3a vesicles but has little effect on dendritic transport. conversely  action potential blockade using tetrodotoxin (ttx) accelerates axonal transport  but not dendritic transport. these data indicate that axons and dendrites regulate trafficking of sema3a and probably other secretory vesicles in distinct ways  with axons specializing in fast  uninterrupted  anterograde transport. furthermore  neuronal activity regulates secretory vesicle trafficking in axons by a depolarization-evoked trafficking arrest.
3490,transcriptional profiling of the heart reveals chamber-specific gene expression patterns.,cardiac chamber-specific gene expression is critical for the normal development and function of the heart. to investigate the genetic basis of cardiac anatomical specialization  we have undertaken a nearly genome-wide transcriptional profiling of the four heart chambers and the interventricular septum. rigorous statistical analysis has allowed the identification of known and novel members of gene families that are felt to be important in cardiac development and function  including lim proteins  homeobox proteins  wnt and t-box pathway proteins  as well as structural proteins like actins and myosins. in addition  these studies have allowed the identification of thousands of additional differentially expressed genes  for which there is little structural or functional information. clustering of genes with known and unknown functions provides insights into signaling pathways that are essential for development and maintenance of chamber-specific features. to facilitate future research in this area  a searchable internet database has been constructed that allows study of the chamber-specific expression of any gene represented on this comprehensive microarray. it is anticipated that further study of genes identified through this effort will provide insights into the specialization of heart chamber tissues  and their specific roles in cardiac development  aging  and disease.
3492,acute exercise activates nuclear factor (nf)-kappab signaling pathway in rat skeletal muscle.,two studies were performed to investigate the effects of an acute bout of physical exercise on the nuclear protein kappab (nf-kappab) signaling pathway in rat skeletal muscle. in study 1  a group of rats (n=6) was run on the treadmill at 25 m/min  5% grade  for 1 h or until exhaustion (ex)  and compared with a second group (n=6) injected with two doses of pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (pdtc  100 mg/kg  i.p.) 24 and 1 h prior to the acute exercise bout. three additional groups of rats (n=6) were injected with either 8 mg/kg (i.p.) of lipopolysaccharide (lps)  1 mmol/kg (i.p.) t-butylhydroperoxide (tbhp)  or saline (c) and killed at resting condition. ex rats showed higher levels of nf-kappab binding and p50 protein content in muscle nuclear extracts compared with c rats. cytosolic ikappabalpha and ikappab kinase (ikk) contents were decreased  whereas phospho-ikappabalpha and phospho-ikk contents were increased  comparing ex vs. c. the exercise-induced activation of nf-kappab signaling cascade was partially abolished by pdtc treatment. lps  but not tbhp  treatment mimicked and exaggerated the effects observed in ex rats. in study 2  the time course of exercise-induced nf-kappab activation was examined. highest levels of nf-kappab binding were observed at 2 h postexercise. decreased cytosolic ikappabalpha and increased phosphor-ikappabalpha content were found 0-1 h postexercise whereas p65 reached peak levels at 2-4 h. these data suggest that the nf-kappab signaling pathway can be activated in a redox-sensitive manner during muscular contraction  presumably due to increased oxidant production. the cascade of intracellular events may be the overture to elevated gene expression of manganese superoxide dismutase reported earlier (pfluegers arch. 442  426-434  2001).
3494,fast calcium and voltage-sensitive dye imaging in enteric neurones reveal calcium peaks associated with single action potential discharge.,slow changes in [ca(2+)](i) reflect increased neuronal activity. our study demonstrates that single-trial fast [ca(2+)](i) imaging (≥200 hz sampling rate) revealed peaks each of which are associated with single spike discharge recorded by consecutive voltage-sensitive dye (vsd) imaging in enteric neurones and nerve fibres. fast [ca(2+)](i) imaging also revealed subthreshold fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials. nicotine-evoked [ca(2+)](i) peaks were reduced by -conotoxin and blocked by ruthenium red or tetrodotoxin. fast [ca(2+)](i) imaging can be used to directly record single action potentials in enteric neurones. [ca(2+)](i) peaks required opening of voltage-gated sodium and calcium channels as well as ca(2+) release from intracellular stores.
3496,a murine model of human myeloma bone disease.,myeloma causes a devastating and unique form of osteolytic bone disease. although osteoclast activation is responsible for bone destruction  the precise mechanisms by which myeloma cells increase osteoclast activity have not been defined. an animal model of human myeloma bone disease would help in clarification of these mechanisms. multiple myeloma occurs spontaneously in aging c57 bl/kalwrij mice and has all of the features of the disease in humans  including the characteristic bone lesions. the disease can be induced in normal c57 bl/kalwrij mice by inoculation of fresh marrow-derived cells from mice with myeloma  but this model is difficult to study because of variability in the number of myeloma cells in marrow-derived preparations. to develop a better animal model of human myeloma bone disease  we have established and subcloned a cell line from this murine myeloma and found that it causes osteolytic bone lesions in mice characteristic of human myeloma bone disease. the cell line produces interleukin-6  but grows independent of exogenous interleukin-6. mice inoculated intravenously with the cultured cells predictably develop an identical disease to the mice injected intravenously with fresh bone-marrow-derived myeloma cells  including monoclonal gammopathy and radiologic bone lesions. we found that some of the mice became hypercalcemic  and the bone lesions are characterized by increased osteoclast activity. we found identical results when we inoculated nu/bg/xid mice with cultured murine myeloma cells. because we can inoculate mice with precise numbers of cells and predict accurately when the mice will develop bone lesions  become hypercalcemic  and die  this should be a convenient model for determining the mechanisms by which the myeloma cells cause osteoclast activation in this model of human myeloma bone disease.
3498,cardiovascular risk factors and migraine: the gem population-based study.,background migraine  particularly with aura  is a risk factor for early-onset ischemic stroke. the underlying mechanisms are unknown  but may in part be due to migraineurs having an increased risk profile for cardiovascular disease. in this study  the authors compare the cardiovascular risk profile of adult migraineurs to that of nonmigraineurs. methods participants (n = 5 755  48% men  age 20 to 65 years) are from the genetic epidemiology of migraine (gem) study  a population-based study in the netherlands. a total of 620 current migraineurs were identified: 31% with aura (ma)  64% without aura (mo)  and 5% unclassified. controls were 5 135 individuals without lifetime migraine. measured cardiovascular risk factors included blood pressure (bp)  serum total and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (tc  hdl)  smoking  oral contraceptive use  and the framingham risk score for myocardial infarction or coronary heart disease (chd) death. results compared to controls  migraineurs were more likely to smoke (or = 1.43 [1.1 to 1.8])  less likely to consume alcohol (or = 0.58 [0.5 to 0.7])  and more likely to report a parental history of early myocardial infarction. migraineurs with aura were more likely to have an unfavorable cholesterol profile (tc > or = 240 mg/dl [or = 1.43 (0.97 to 2.1)]  tc:hdl ratio > 5.0 [or = 1.64 (1.1 to 2.4)])  have elevated bp (systolic bp > 140 mm hg or diastolic bp > 90 mm hg [or = 1.76 (1.04 to 3.0)])  and report a history of early onset chd or stroke (or = 3.96 [1.1 to 14.3]); female migraineurs with aura were more likely to be using oral contraceptives (or = 2.06 [1.05 to 4.0]). the odds of having an elevated framingham risk score for chd were approximately doubled for the migraineurs with aura. conclusions migraineurs  particularly with aura  have a higher cardiovascular risk profile than individuals without migraine.
3500,wnt/β-catenin signaling defines organizing centers that orchestrate growth and differentiation of the regenerating zebrafish caudal fin.,zebrafish regenerate their fins via the formation of a population of progenitor cells  the blastema. wnt/β-catenin signaling is essential for blastemal cell proliferation and patterning of the overlying epidermis. yet  we find that β-catenin signaling is neither active in the epidermis nor the majority of the proliferative blastemal cells. rather  tissue-specific pathway interference indicates that wnt signaling in the nonproliferative distal blastema is required for cell proliferation in the proximal blastema  and signaling in cells lining the osteoblasts directs osteoblast differentiation. thus  wnt signaling regulates epidermal patterning  blastemal cell proliferation  and osteoblast maturation indirectly via secondary signals. gene expression profiling  chromatin immunoprecipitation  and functional rescue experiments suggest that wnt/β-catenin signaling acts through fgf and bmp signaling to control epidermal patterning  whereas retinoic acid and hedgehog signals mediate its effects on blastemal cell proliferation. we propose that wnt signaling orchestrates fin regeneration by defining organizing centers that instruct cellular behaviors of adjacent tissues.
3502,expression of circadian genes correlates with liver metastasis and outcomes in colorectal cancer.,circadian rhythms are daily oscillations in various biological processes  generated by the feedback loops of eight core circadian genes: period1 (per1)  period2 (per2)  period3 (per3)  cryptochrome1 (cry1)  cryptochrome2 (cry2)  clock  bmal1 and casein kinase i ε (ckiε). recent studies have suggested that circadian genes participate in the growth and development of various cancers. this study examined the relations of circadian gene expression to clinicopathological factors and outcomes in patients with colorectal cancer. we studied surgical specimens of cancer tissue and adjacent normal mucosa obtained from 202 patients with untreated colorectal cancer. the relative expression levels of the circadian genes in the specimens were measured by quantitative real-time  reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction. expression of the clock gene and the ckiε gene in cancer tissue were significantly higher compared to that in adjacent normal mucosa. expression of the per1 and per3 genes in cancer tissue was significantly lower compared to that in adjacent normal mucosa. analysis of the relations between clinicopathological features and expression of the eight circadian genes in cancer tissue showed that high expression of the bmal1 gene and low expression of the per1 gene correlated with liver metastasis. on analysis of the relations between outcomes and gene expression  high expression of the per2 gene was associated with significantly better outcomes than low expression of the per2 gene. overexpression of the bmal1 gene and reduced expression of the per1 gene may thus be useful predictors of liver metastasis. moreover  reduced expression of the per2 gene may be a predictor of outcomes in patients with colorectal cancer.
3504,oridonin  a diterpenoid purified from rabdosia rubescens  inhibits the proliferation of cells from lymphoid malignancies in association with blockade of the nf-kappa b signal pathways.,this study found that oridonin  a natural diterpenoid purified from rabdosia rubescens  inhibited growth of multiple myeloma (mm; u266  rpmi8226)  acute lymphoblastic t-cell leukemia (jurkat)  and adult t-cell leukemia (mt-1) cells with an effective dose that inhibited 50% of target cells (ed50) ranging from 0.75 to 2.7 microg/ml. terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase-mediated dutp nick end labeling staining showed that oridonin caused apoptosis of mt-1 cells in a time-dependent manner. we explored effects of oridonin on antiapoptotic bcl-2 family members and found that it down-regulated levels of mcl-1 and bcl-x(l)  but not bcl-2 protein  in both mt-1 and rpmi8226 cells. further studies found that oridonin inhibited nuclear factor-kappa b (nf-kappa b) dna-binding activity in these cells as measured by luciferase reporter gene  elisa-based  and electrophoretic mobility shift assays. oridonin also blocked tumor necrosis factor-alpha- and lipopolysaccharide-stimulated nf-kappa b activity in jurkat cells as well as raw264.7 murine macrophages. of note  oridonin decreased survival of freshly isolated adult t-cell leukemia (three samples)  acute lymphoblastic leukemia (one sample)  chronic lymphocytic leukemia (one sample)  non-hodgkin's lymphoma (three samples)  and mm (four samples) cells from patients in association with inhibition of nf-kappa b dna-binding activity. on the other hand  oridonin did not affect survival of normal lymphoid cells from healthy volunteers. taken together  oridonin might be useful as adjunctive therapy for individuals with lymphoid malignancies  including the lethal disease adult t-cell leukemia.
3506,moist occlusive dressing (aquacel(®) ag) versus moist open dressing (mebo(®)) in the management of partial-thickness facial burns: a comparative study in ain shams university.,introduction the face is the central point of the physical features; it transmits expressions and emotions  communicates feelings and allows for individual identity. facial burns are very common and are devastating to the affected patient and results into numerous physical  emotional and psychosocial sequels. partial thickness facial burns are very common especially among children. this study compares the effect of standard moist open technique management and a moist closed technique for partial thickness burns of the face. patients and methods patients with partial-thickness facial burns admitted in the burn unit  ain shams university  cairo  egypt in the period from april 2009 to december 2009 were included in this study. they were divided into two groups to receive either open treatment with mebo(®) (n=20) or coverage with aquacel(®) ag (n=20). demographics (age  gender  ethnicity  tbsa  burn areas)  length of hospital stay (los)  rate of infections  time to total healing  frequency of dressing changes  pain  cost benefit and patient discomfort were compared between the two groups. the long-term outcome (incidence of hypertrophic scarring) was assessed for up to 6 months follow-up period. results there were no significant differences in demographics between the two groups. in the group treated with the aquacel(®) ag  the mean time for re-epithelialization was 10.5 days  while it was 12.4 days in the mebo(®) group (p<0.05). frequency of changes  pain and patient discomfort were less with aquacel(®) ag. cost was of no significant difference between the two groups. scar quality improved in the aquacel(®) ag treatment group. three and 6 months follow-up was done and long-term outcomes were recorded in both groups. conclusion moist occlusive dressing (aquacel(®) ag) significantly improves the management and healing rate of partial thickness facial burns with better long-term outcome compared to moist open dressing (mebo(®)).
3508,developmental racgap α2-chimaerin signaling is a determinant of the morphological features of dendritic spines in adulthood.,unlabelled morphological characteristics of dendritic spines form the basis of cognitive ability. however  molecular mechanisms involved in fine-tuning of spine morphology during development are not fully understood. moreover  it is unclear whether  and to what extent  these developmental mechanisms determine the normal adult spine morphological features. here  we provide evidence that α2-isoform of rac-specific gtpase-activating protein α-chimaerin (α2-chimaerin) is involved in spine morphological refinement during late postnatal period  and furthermore show that this developmental α2-chimaerin function affects adult spine morphologies. we used a series of mice with global and conditional knock-out of α-chimaerin isoforms (α1-chimaerin and α2-chimaerin). α2-chimaerin disruption  but not α1-chimaerin disruption  in the mouse results in an increased size (and density) of spines in the hippocampus. in contrast  overexpression of α2-chimaerin in developing hippocampal neurons induces a decrease of spine size. disruption of α2-chimaerin suppressed epha-mediated spine morphogenesis in cultured developing hippocampal neurons. α2-chimaerin disruption that begins during the juvenile stage results in an increased size of spines in the hippocampus. meanwhile  spine morphologies are unaltered when α2-chimaerin is deleted only in adulthood. consistent with these spine morphological results  disruption of α2-chimaerin beginning in the juvenile stage led to an increase in contextual fear learning in adulthood; whereas contextual learning was recently shown to be unaffected when α2-chimaerin was deleted only in adulthood. together  these results suggest that α2-chimaerin signaling in developmental stages contributes to determination of the morphological features of adult spines and establishment of normal cognitive ability. significance statement recent studies of neurodevelopmental disorders in humans and their animal models have led to an attractive hypothesis that spine morphogenesis during development forms the basis of adult cognition. in particular  the roles of rac and its regulators  such as rac-specific gtpase-activating proteins (racgaps) and rac guanine nucleotide exchange factors  are a topic of focus in spine morphogenesis and cognitive ability. using a series of mice with global and conditional knock-out (ko) of racgap α-chimaerin isoforms (α1-chimaerin and α2-chimaerin)  we provide compelling evidence demonstrating that α2-chimaerin is involved in spine morphological refinement during late postnatal development and that this developmental α2-chimaerin function affects adult spine morphologies. furthermore  our results clearly showed that α2-chimaerin signaling during late postnatal development contributes to normal cognitive ability in adult mice.
3510,downregulation of superoxide dismutase activity and gene expression in cultured rat brain astrocytes after incubation with vitamin c,reactive oxygen species have been linked with neuropathological changes in the central nervous system. epidemiological studies supported the beneficial effect of supplementation of antioxidants. superoxide dismutase (sod) is an endogenous enzyme which can scavenge reactive oxygen species. this study investigated the effect of supplementation with ascorbic acid (vitamin c) on the changes of sod in cultured neurological cells. rat brain astrocytes (rba-1 cells) were incubated with vitamin c and divided into four groups: a control group (without vitamin c) and three treatment groups with vitamin c at 40  80  and 160 µmol/l. after short-term (2 days) and long-term (7 days) incubation  sod activity  sod mrna level by northern blotting  and sod protein amounts by western blotting were measured. after 2 days of incubation  vitamin c resulted in a decrease in the activity of sod in a concentration-dependent manner (mn-sod from 14.8 ± 1.2 to 13.2 ± 0.5 u/mg protein and cu/zn-sod from 64.8 ± 1.2 to 51.7 ± 0.9 u/mg protein; p < 0.05)  and vitamin c also attenuated the cu/zn-sod mrna level from 100 to 86.3 ± 6.7%; p < 0.01)  whereas the protein amounts of these two sods remained unchanged. after 7 days of incubation with vitamin c  the sod activity of rba-1 cells decreased significantly (mn-sod from 14.9 ± 0.3 to 11.8 ± 0.3 u/mg protein and cu/zn sod from 61.8 ± 1.8 to 54.6 ± 0.9 u/mg protein; p < 0.01)  and the mrna level was also attenuated (mn-sod from 100 to 86.8 ± 8.7% and cu/zn-sod from 100 to 84.7 ± 4.8%; p < 0.01). these results suggest that 2 and 7 days of incubation with relatively high concentrations of vitamin c may downregulate activity and gene expression of sod in cultured rba-1 cells.
3512,glucose metabolism inhibits apoptosis in neurons and cancer cells by redox inactivation of cytochrome c,neurons and cancer cells use glucose extensively  yet the precise advantage of this adaptation remains unclear. these two seemingly disparate cell types also show an increased regulation of the apoptotic pathway  which allows for their long-term survival. here we show that both neurons and cancer cells strictly inhibit cytochrome c-mediated apoptosis by a mechanism dependent on glucose metabolism. we report that the pro-apoptotic activity of cytochrome c is influenced by its redox state and that increases in reactive oxygen species (ros) following an apoptotic insult lead to the oxidation and activation of cytochrome c. in healthy neurons and cancer cells  however  cytochrome c is reduced and held inactive by intracellular glutathione (gsh)  generated as a result of glucose metabolism by the pentose phosphate pathway. these results uncover a striking similarity in apoptosis regulation between neurons and cancer cells and provide insight into an adaptive advantage offered by the warburg effect for cancer cell evasion of apoptosis and for long-term neuronal survival.
3514,bayesian models leveraging bioactivity and cytotoxicity information for drug discovery.,identification of unique leads represents a significant challenge in drug discovery. this hurdle is magnified in neglected diseases such as tuberculosis. we have leveraged public high-throughput screening (hts) data to experimentally validate a virtual screening approach employing bayesian models built with bioactivity information (single-event model) as well as bioactivity and cytotoxicity information (dual-event model). we virtually screened a commercial library and experimentally confirmed actives with hit rates exceeding typical hts results by one to two orders of magnitude. this initial dual-event bayesian model identified compounds with antitubercular whole-cell activity and low mammalian cell cytotoxicity from a published set of antimalarials. the most potent hit exhibits the in vitro activity and in vitro/in vivo safety profile of a drug lead. these bayesian models offer significant economies in time and cost to drug discovery.
3516,bone disease in pediatric patients undergoing dialysis with capd or ccpd.,the histologic features of renal osteodystrophy and the prevalence of bone aluminum deposition in children receiving regular dialysis have not been described. forty-four pediatric patients undergoing continuous ambulatory (capd) or cycling (ccpd) peritoneal dialysis had bone biopsies and deferoxamine (dfo) infusion tests; all were receiving oral calcitriol. osteitis fibrosa (of) was found in 39%  mild lesions (m) in 25%  normal histology (nh) in 16%  aplastic lesions (ap) in 11%  and osteomalacia (om) in 9%. bone surface aluminum (sa) was present by histochemical staining in 10 out of 20 given aluminum-containing phosphate-binding agents and in 0 of 24 treated with calcium carbonate; chi 2 = 15.5  p less than 0.0001. serum biochemistries and dfo infusion tests failed to predict bone histology  but plasma aluminum levels were markedly elevated and bone aluminum content was highest in patients with om. bone formation rate (bfr) correlated with serum parathyroid hormone (pth)  r = 0.55  p less than 0.001; bfr was inversely related to bone aluminum content (r = -0.42  p less than 0.01)  even in patients with of (r = -0.66  p less than 0.05). all patients with sa greater than 30% had normal or reduced bfr when compared to those with sa less than 30%; chi 2 = 12.2  p less than 0.005. based on sa greater than 30%  six patients were classified as aluminum-related bone disease: three om  one ap  and two nh. two-thirds of pediatric patients undergoing capd/ccpd have persistent hyperparathyroidism despite treatment with calcitriol  but aluminum can adversely affect bfr when sa exceeds 30% regardless of histologic lesion or serum pth level.
3518,molecular mechanisms that funnel rna precursors into endogenous small-interfering rna and microrna biogenesis pathways in drosophila.,in drosophila  three types of endogenous small rnas-micrornas (mirnas)  piwi-interacting rnas (pirnas)  and endogenous small-interfering rnas (endo-sirnas or esirnas)-function as triggers in rna silencing. although pirnas are produced independently of dicer  mirna and esirna biogenesis pathways require dicer1 and dicer2  respectively. recent studies have shown that among the four isoforms of loquacious (loqs)  loqs-pb and loqs-pd are involved in mirna and esirna processing pathways  respectively. however  how these loqs isoforms function in their respective small rna biogenesis pathways remains elusive. here  we show that loqs-pd associates specifically with dicer2 through its c-terminal domain. the dicer2-loqs-pd complex contains r2d2  another known dicer2 partner  and excises both exogenous sirnas and esirnas from their corresponding precursors in vitro. however  loqs-pd  but not r2d2  enhanced dicer2 activity. the dicer2-loqs-pd complex processes esirna precursor hairpins with long stems  which results in the production of ago2-associated small rnas. interestingly  however  small rnas derived from terminal hairpins of esirna precursors are loaded onto ago1; thus  they are classified as a new subset of mirnas. these results suggest that the precursor rna structure determines the biogenesis mechanism of esirnas and mirnas  thereby implicating hairpin structures with long stems as intermediates in the evolution of drosophila mirna.
3520,the cell cycle in polyploid megakaryocytes is associated with reduced activity of cyclin b1-dependent cdc2 kinase.,the platelet precursor  the megakaryocyte  matures to a polyploid cell as a result of dna replication in the absence of mitosis (endomitosis). the factors controlling endomitosis are accessible to analysis in our megakaryocytic cell line  megt  generated by targeted expression of temperature-sensitive simian virus 40 large t antigen to megakaryocytes of transgenic mice. we aimed to define whether endomitosis consists of a continuous phase of dna synthesis (s) or of s phases interrupted by gaps. analysis of the cell cycle in megt cells revealed that  upon inactivation of large t antigen  the cells shifted from a mitotic cell cycle to an endomitotic cell cycle consisting of s/gap phases. the level of the g1/s cyclin  cyclin a  as well as of the g1 phase cyclin  cyclin d3  were elevated at the onset of dna synthesis  either in megt cells undergoing a mitotic cell cycle or during endomitosis. in contrast  the level of the mitotic cyclin  cyclin b1  cycled in cells displaying a mitotic cell cycle while not detectable during endomitosis. comparable levels of the mitotic kinase protein  cdc2  were detected during the mitotic cell cycle or during endomitosis; however  cyclin b1-dependent cdc2 kinase activity was largely abolished in the polyploid cells. fibroblasts immortalized with the same heat-labile oncogene do not display reduced levels of cyclin b1 upon shifting to high temperature nor do they become polyploid  indicating that reduced levels of cyclin b1 is a property of megakaryocytes and not of the t-antigen mutant. we conclude that cellular programming during endoreduplication in megakaryocytes is associated with reduced levels of cyclin b1.
3522,dominance relationships between s-alleles in self-incompatible brassica campestris l.,dominance relationships were studied for 249 out of 276 possible pair-wise combinations between 24 s-alleles of brassica campestris that had been isolated from two natural populations from turkey and japan. each f1 hybrid was test-crossed reciprocally against its respective parental s-homozygotes to determine the dominance relationships between the pair of s-alleles it contained. the 24 s-alleles were classified into two groups on the stigma side and three groups on the pollen side. in the stigma  codominance occurred frequently  and dominance or recessiveness seemed to appear according to the combination of s-alleles. in the pollen  codominance was less frequent  and there seemed to be a certain hierarchy of the dominance relationships as a whole  although dominance appeared with certain specific combinations of s-alleles. interactions among 24 s-alleles were different in the stigma and in the pollen. independent weakening of s-alleles was found between 20 pairs in the pollen  but only two in the stigma. this interaction seems to be correlated with recessiveness of s-alleles.
3524,characterization of the interaction between retinoic acid receptor/retinoid x receptor (rar/rxr) heterodimers and transcriptional coactivators through structural and fluorescence anisotropy studies.,retinoid receptors (rars and rxrs) are ligand-activated transcription factors that regulate the transcription of target genes by recruiting coregulator complexes at cognate promoters. to understand the effects of heterodimerization and ligand binding on coactivator recruitment  we solved the crystal structure of the complex between the rarbeta/rxralpha ligand-binding domain heterodimer  its 9-cis retinoic acid ligand  and an lxxll-containing peptide (termed nr box 2) derived from the nuclear receptor interaction domain (nid) of the trap220 coactivator. in parallel  we measured the binding affinities of the isolated nr box 2 peptide or the full-length nid of the coactivator src-1 for retinoid receptors in the presence of various types of ligands. our correlative analysis of three-dimensional structures and fluorescence data reveals that heterodimerization does not significantly alter the structure of individual subunits or their intrinsic capacity to interact with nr box 2. similarly  we show that the ability of a protomer to recruit nr box 2 does not vary as a function of the ligand binding status of the partner receptor. in contrast  the strength of the overall association between the heterodimer and the full-length src-1 nid is dictated by the combinatorial action of rar and rxr ligands  the simultaneous presence of the two receptor agonists being required for highest binding affinity. we identified an lxxll peptide-driven mechanism by which the concerted reorientation of three phenylalanine side chains generates an "aromatic clamp" that locks the rxr activation helix h12 in the transcriptionally active conformation. finally  we show how variations of helix h11-ligand interactions can alter the communication pathway linking helices h11  h12  and the connecting loop l11-12 to the coactivator-binding site. together  our results reveal molecular and structural features that impact on the ligand-dependent interaction of the rar/rxr heterodimer with nuclear receptor coactivators.
3526,general and abdominal adiposity and risk of death in europe.,background previous studies have relied predominantly on the body-mass index (bmi  the weight in kilograms divided by the square of the height in meters) to assess the association of adiposity with the risk of death  but few have examined whether the distribution of body fat contributes to the prediction of death. methods we examined the association of bmi  waist circumference  and waist-to-hip ratio with the risk of death among 359 387 participants from nine countries in the european prospective investigation into cancer and nutrition (epic). we used a cox regression analysis  with age as the time variable  and stratified the models according to study center and age at recruitment  with further adjustment for educational level  smoking status  alcohol consumption  physical activity  and height. results during a mean follow-up of 9.7 years  14 723 participants died. the lowest risks of death related to bmi were observed at a bmi of 25.3 for men and 24.3 for women. after adjustment for bmi  waist circumference and waist-to-hip ratio were strongly associated with the risk of death. relative risks among men and women in the highest quintile of waist circumference were 2.05 (95% confidence interval [ci]  1.80 to 2.33) and 1.78 (95% ci  1.56 to 2.04)  respectively  and in the highest quintile of waist-to-hip ratio  the relative risks were 1.68 (95% ci  1.53 to 1.84) and 1.51 (95% ci  1.37 to 1.66)  respectively. bmi remained significantly associated with the risk of death in models that included waist circumference or waist-to-hip ratio (p<0.001). conclusions these data suggest that both general adiposity and abdominal adiposity are associated with the risk of death and support the use of waist circumference or waist-to-hip ratio in addition to bmi in assessing the risk of death.
3528,pkd1 inhibits ampkα2 through phosphorylation of serine 491 and impairs insulin signaling in skeletal muscle cells.,amp-activated protein kinase (ampk) is an energy-sensing enzyme whose activity is inhibited in settings of insulin resistance. exposure to a high glucose concentration has recently been shown to increase phosphorylation of ampk at ser(485/491) of its α1/α2 subunit; however  the mechanism by which it does so is not known. diacylglycerol (dag)  which is also increased in muscle exposed to high glucose  activates a number of signaling molecules including protein kinase (pk)c and pkd1. we sought to determine whether pkc or pkd1 is involved in inhibition of ampk by causing ser(485/491) phosphorylation in skeletal muscle cells. c2c12 myotubes were treated with the pkc/d1 activator phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (pma)  which acts as a dag mimetic. this caused dose- and time-dependent increases in ampk ser(485/491) phosphorylation  which was associated with a ∼60% decrease in ampkα2 activity. expression of a phosphodefective ampkα2 mutant (s491a) prevented the pma-induced reduction in ampk activity. serine phosphorylation and inhibition of ampk activity were partially prevented by the broad pkc inhibitor gö6983 and fully prevented by the specific pkd1 inhibitor crt0066101. genetic knockdown of pkd1 also prevented ser(485/491) phosphorylation of ampk. inhibition of previously identified kinases that phosphorylate ampk at this site (akt  s6k  and erk) did not prevent these events. pma treatment also caused impairments in insulin-signaling through akt  which were prevented by pkd1 inhibition. finally  recombinant pkd1 phosphorylated ampkα2 at ser(491) in cell-free conditions. these results identify pkd1 as a novel upstream kinase of ampkα2 ser(491) that plays a negative role in insulin signaling in muscle cells.
3530,modulation of cellular and viral promoters by mutant human p53 proteins found in tumor cells.,wild-type p53 has recently been shown to repress transcription from several cellular and viral promoters. since p53 mutations are the most frequently reported genetic defects in human cancers  it becomes important to study the effects of mutations of p53 on promoter functions. we  therefore  have studied the effects of wild-type and mutant human p53 on the human proliferating-cell nuclear antigen (pcna) promoter and on several viral promoters  including the herpes simplex virus type 1 ul9 promoter  the human cytomegalovirus major immediate-early promoter-enhancer  and the long terminal repeat promoters of rous sarcoma virus and human t-cell lymphotropic virus type i. hela cells were cotransfected with a wild-type or mutant p53 expression vector and a plasmid containing a chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter gene under viral (or cellular) promoter control. as expected  expression of the wild-type p53 inhibited promoter function. expression of a p53 with a mutation at any one of the four amino acid positions 175  248  273  or 281  however  correlated with a significant increase of the pcna promoter activity (2- to 11-fold). the viral promoters were also activated  although to a somewhat lesser extent. we also showed that activation by a mutant p53 requires a minimal promoter containing a lone tata box. a more significant increase (25-fold) in activation occurs when the promoter contains a binding site for the activating transcription factor or cyclic amp response element-binding protein. using saos-2 cells that do not express p53  we showed that activation by a mutant p53 was a direct enhancement. the mutant forms of p53 used in this study are found in various cancer cells. the activation of pcna by mutant p53s may indicate a way to increase cell proliferation by the mutant p53s. thus  our data indicate a possible functional role for the mutants of p53 found in cancer cells in activating several important loci  including pcna.
3532,the hmg-coa reductase inhibitor simvastatin activates the protein kinase akt and promotes angiogenesis in normocholesterolemic animals.,recent studies suggest that statins can function to protect the vasculature in a manner that is independent of their lipid-lowering activity. we show here that statins rapidly activate the protein kinase akt/pkb in endothelial cells. accordingly  simvastatin enhanced phosphorylation of the endogenous akt substrate endothelial nitric oxide synthase (enos)  inhibited apoptosis and accelerated vascular structure formation in vitro in an akt-dependent manner. similar to vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) treatment  both simvastatin administration and enhanced akt signaling in the endothelium promoted angiogenesis in ischemic limbs of normocholesterolemic rabbits. therefore  activation of akt represents a mechanism that can account for some of the beneficial side effects of statins  including the promotion of new blood vessel growth.
3534,targeting tlr4 signaling by tlr4 toll/il-1 receptor domain-derived decoy peptides: identification of the tlr4 toll/il-1 receptor domain dimerization interface.,agonist-induced dimerization of tlr4 toll/il-1r (tir) domains initiates intracellular signaling. therefore  identification of the tlr4-tir dimerization interface is one key to the rational design of therapeutics that block tlr4 signaling. a library of cell-permeating decoy peptides  each of which represents a nonfragmented patch of the tlr4 tir surface  was designed such that the peptides entirely encompass the tlr4 tir surface. each peptide was synthesized in tandem with a cell-permeating antennapedia homeodomain sequence and tested for the ability to inhibit early cytokine mrna expression and mapk activation in lps-stimulated primary murine macrophages. five peptides--4r1  4r3  4bb  4r9  and 4αe--potently inhibited all manifestations of tlr4  but not tlr2 signaling. when tested for their ability to bind directly to tlr4 tir by förster resonance energy transfer using time-resolved fluorescence spectroscopy  bodipy-tmr-x-labeled 4r1  4bb  and 4αe quenched fluorescence of tlr4-cerulean expressed in hela or hek293t cells  whereas 4r3 was partially active  and 4r9 was least active. these findings suggest that the area between the bb loop of tlr4 and its fifth helical region mediates tlr4 tir dimerization. moreover  our data provide direct evidence for the utility of the decoy peptide approach  in which peptides representing various surface-exposed segments of a protein are initially probed for the ability to inhibit protein function  and then their specific targets are identified by förster resonance energy transfer to define recognition sites in signaling proteins that may be targeted therapeutically to disrupt functional transient protein interactions.
3536,innate lymphoid cells: emerging insights in development  lineage relationships  and function.,innate lymphoid cells (ilcs) are immune cells that lack a specific antigen receptor yet can produce an array of effector cytokines that in variety match that of t helper cell subsets. ilcs function in lymphoid organogenesis  tissue remodeling  antimicrobial immunity  and inflammation  particularly at barrier surfaces. their ability to promptly respond to insults inflicted by stress-causing microbes strongly suggests that ilcs are critical in first-line immunological defenses. here  we review current data on developmental requirements  lineage relationships  and effector functions of two families of ilcs: (a) rorγt-expressing cells involved in lymphoid tissue formation  mucosal immunity  and inflammation and (b) type 2 ilcs that are important for helminth immunity. we also discuss the potential roles of ilcs in the pathology of immune-mediated inflammatory and infectious diseases including allergy.
3538,traditional chinese acupuncture in tension-type headache: a controlled study.,thirty patients with tension-type headache were randomly chosen to undergo a trial of traditional chinese acupuncture and sham acupuncture. five measures were used to assess symptom severity and treatment response: intensity  duration and frequency of headache pain episodes  headache index and analgesic intake. the five measures were assessed during a 4 week baseline period  after 4 and 8 weeks of treatment  and 1  6 and 12 months thereafter. before the start of the study  each patient was administered the mmpi. split-plot anovas showed that  compared to baseline  at 1 month after the end of treatment and for the 12 month follow-up  the frequency of headache episodes  analgesic consumption and the headache index (but not the duration or intensity of headache episodes) significantly decreased over time; however  no difference between acupuncture and placebo treatment was found. no single mmpi scale predicted the response to treatment  but the mean mmpi profile of acupuncture non-responders showed the presence of 'conversion v'.
3540,interactions between non-physician clinicians and industry: a systematic review,background with increasing restrictions placed on physician-industry interactions  industry marketing may target other health professionals. recent health policy developments confer even greater importance on the decision making of non-physician clinicians. the purpose of this systematic review is to examine the types and implications of non-physician clinician-industry interactions in clinical practice. methods and findings we searched medline and web of science from january 1  1946  through june 24  2013  according to prisma guidelines. non-physician clinicians eligible for inclusion were: registered nurses  nurse prescribers  physician assistants  pharmacists  dieticians  and physical or occupational therapists; trainee samples were excluded. fifteen studies met inclusion criteria. data were synthesized qualitatively into eight outcome domains: nature and frequency of industry interactions; attitudes toward industry; perceived ethical acceptability of interactions; perceived marketing influence; perceived reliability of industry information; preparation for industry interactions; reactions to industry relations policy; and management of industry interactions. non-physician clinicians reported interacting with the pharmaceutical and infant formula industries. clinicians across disciplines met with pharmaceutical representatives regularly and relied on them for practice information. clinicians frequently received industry "information " attended sponsored "education " and acted as distributors for similar materials targeted at patients. clinicians generally regarded this as an ethical use of industry resources  and felt they could detect "promotion" while benefiting from industry "information. " free samples were among the most approved and common ways that clinicians interacted with industry. included studies were observational and of varying methodological rigor; thus  these findings may not be generalizable. this review is  however  the first to our knowledge to provide a descriptive analysis of this literature. conclusions non-physician clinicians' generally positive attitudes toward industry interactions  despite their recognition of issues related to bias  suggest that industry interactions are normalized in clinical practice across non-physician disciplines. industry relations policy should address all disciplines and be implemented consistently in order to mitigate conflicts of interest and address such interactions' potential to affect patient care. please see later in the article for the editors' summary.
3542,clinical outcomes following institution of the canadian universal leukoreduction program for red blood cell transfusions.,context a number of countries have implemented a policy of universal leukoreduction of their blood supply  but the potential role of leukoreduction in decreasing postoperative mortality and infection is unclear. objective to evaluate clinical outcomes following adoption of a national universal prestorage leukoreduction program for blood transfusions. design  setting  and population retrospective before-and-after cohort study conducted from august 1998 to august 2000 in 23 academic and community hospitals throughout canada  enrolling 14 786 patients who received red blood cell transfusions following cardiac surgery or repair of hip fracture  or who required intensive care following a surgical intervention or multiple trauma. intervention universal prestorage leukoreduction program introduced by 2 canadian blood agencies. a total of 6982 patients were enrolled during the control period and 7804 patients were enrolled following prestorage leukoreduction. main outcome measures all-cause in-hospital mortality and serious nosocomial infections (pneumonia  bacteremia  septic shock  all surgical site infections) occurring after first transfusion and at least 2 days after index procedure or intensive care unit admission. secondary outcomes included rates of posttransfusion fever and antibiotic use. results unadjusted in-hospital mortality rates were significantly lower following the introduction of leukoreduction compared with the control period (6.19% vs 7.03%  respectively; p =.04). compared with the control period  the adjusted odds of death following leukoreduction were reduced (odds ratio [or]  0.87; 95% confidence interval [ci]  0.75-0.99)  but serious nosocomial infections did not decrease (adjusted or  0.97; 95% ci  0.87-1.09). the frequency of posttransfusion fevers decreased significantly following leukoreduction (adjusted or  0.86; 95% ci  0.79-0.94)  as did antibiotic use (adjusted or  0.90; 95% ci  0.82-0.99). conclusion a national universal leukoreduction program is potentially associated with decreased mortality as well as decreased fever episodes and antibiotic use after red blood cell transfusion in high-risk patients.
3544,the antidiabetic effect of mesenchymal stem cells is unrelated to their transdifferentiation potential but to their capability to restore th1/th2 balance and to modify the pancreatic microenvironment.,type 1 diabetes mellitus (t1dm) is a chronic metabolic disease that results from cell-mediated autoimmune destruction of insulin-producing cells. in t1dm animal models  it has been shown that the systemic administration of multipotent mesenchymal stromal cells  also referred as to mesenchymal stem cells (mscs)  results in the regeneration of pancreatic islets. mechanisms underlying this effect are still poorly understood. our aims were to assess whether donor mscs (a) differentiate into pancreatic β-cells and (b) modify systemic and pancreatic pathophysiologic markers of t1dm. after the intravenous administration of 5 × 10(5) syngeneic mscs  we observed that mice with t1dm reverted their hyperglycemia and presented no donor-derived insulin-producing cells. in contrast  7 and 65 days post-transplantation  mscs were engrafted into secondary lymphoid organs. this correlated with a systemic and local reduction in the abundance of autoaggressive t cells together with an increase in regulatory t cells. additionally  in the pancreas of mice with t1dm treated with mscs  we observed a cytokine profile shift from proinflammatory to antinflammatory. msc transplantation did not reduce pancreatic cell apoptosis but recovered local expression and increased the circulating levels of epidermal growth factor  a pancreatic trophic factor. therefore  the antidiabetic effect of mscs intravenously administered is unrelated to their transdifferentiation potential but to their capability to restore the balance between th1 and th2 immunological responses along with the modification of the pancreatic microenvironment. our data should be taken into account when designing clinical trials aimed to evaluate msc transplantation in patients with t1dm since the presence of endogenous precursors seems to be critical in order to restore glycemic control.
3546,the atm missense mutation p.ser49cys (c.146c>g) and the risk of breast cancer.,homozygous mutation in the atm gene causes ataxia telangiectasia and heterozygous mutation carriers may be at increased risk of breast cancer. we studied a total of 22 atm variants; 18 variants were analyzed in one of two large population-based studies from the u.s. and poland  and four variants were analyzed in all 2 856 breast cancer cases and 3 344 controls from the two studies. the missense mutation ser49cys (c.146c>g  p. s49c)  carried by approximately 2% of subjects  was more common in cases than controls in both study populations  combined odds ratio (or) 1.69 (95% ci  1.19-2.40; p=0.004). another missense mutation at approximately 2% frequency  phe858leu (c.2572t>c  p. f858l)  was associated with a significant increased risk in the u.s. study but not in poland  and had a combined or of 1.44 (95% ci  0.98-2.11; p=0.06). these analyses provide the most convincing evidence thus far that missense mutations in atm  particularly p. s49c  may be breast cancer susceptibility alleles. because of their low frequency  even larger sample sizes are required to more firmly establish these associations.
3548,peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma agonists for the prevention of adverse events following percutaneous coronary revascularization--results of the ppar study.,background patients with metabolic syndrome are at increased risk for cardiovascular complications. we sought to determine whether peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma agonists had any beneficial effect on patients with metabolic syndrome undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (pci). methods a total of 200 patients with metabolic syndrome undergoing pci were randomized to rosiglitazone or placebo and followed for 1 year. carotid intima-medial thickness (cimt)  inflammatory markers  lipid levels  brain natriuretic peptide  and clinical events were measured at baseline  6 months  and 12 months. results there was no significant difference in cimt between the 2 groups. there was no difference in the 12-month composite end point of death  myocardial infarction (mi)  stroke  or any recurrent ischemia (31.4% vs 30.2%  p = .99). the rate of death  mi  or stroke at 12 months was numerically lower in the rosiglitazone group (11.9% vs 6.4%  p = .19). there was a trend toward a greater decrease over time in high-sensitivity c-reactive protein values compared with baseline in the group randomized to rosiglitazone versus placebo both at 6 months (-35.4% vs -15.8%  p = .059) and 12 months (-40.0% vs -20.9%  p = .089) and higher change in high-density lipoprotein (+15.5% vs +4.1%  p = .05) and lower triglycerides (-13.9% vs +14.9%  p = .004) in the rosiglitazone arm. there was a trend toward less new onset diabetes in the rosiglitazone group (0% vs 3.3%  p = .081) and no episodes of symptomatic hypoglycemia. there was no excess of new onset of clinical heart failure in the rosiglitazone group  nor was there a significant change in brain natriuretic peptide levels. conclusions patients with metabolic syndrome presenting for pci are at increased risk for subsequent cardiovascular events. rosiglitazone for 12 months did not appear to affect cimt in this population  although it did have beneficial effects on high-sensitivity c-reactive protein  high-density lipoprotein  and triglycerides. further study of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor agonism in patients with metabolic syndrome undergoing pci may be warranted.
3550,cationic host defense (antimicrobial) peptides.,members of the cationic host defense (antimicrobial) peptide family are widely distributed in nature  existing in organisms from insects to plants to mammals and non-mammalian vertebrates. although many demonstrate direct antimicrobial activity against bacteria  fungi  eukaryotic parasites and/or viruses  it has been established that cationic peptides have a key modulatory role in the innate immune response. more recent evidence suggests that host defense peptides are effective adjuvants  are synergistic with other immune effectors  polarize the adaptive response  and support wound healing. in addition  the mechanisms of action are being unraveled  which support more effective implementation of derivatives of these endogenous peptides as therapeutic agents.
3552,knowledge gaps and misconceptions about coronary heart disease among u.s. south asians.,background although south asians are at higher risk for coronary heart disease (chd) than most other u.s. racial/ethnic groups  very little research has addressed this disparity. purpose as a first step in developing culturally targeted chd prevention messages for this rapidly growing community  this study examined south asians' knowledge and beliefs about chd. methods analyses  conducted in 2009  were based on data collected from january to july 2008 in a cross-sectional study population of 270 south asian adults in illinois. interviews were conducted in english  hindi  or urdu using a standardized questionnaire. multivariate regression models were used to examine the associations between sociodemographics and chd knowledge and attitudes about preventability. results eighty-one percent of respondents had one or more chd risk factors. most participants (89%) said they knew little or nothing about chd. stress was the most frequently mentioned risk factor (44%). few mentioned controlling blood pressure (11%); cholesterol (10%); and diabetes (5%) for prevention. fifty-three percent said that heart attacks are not preventable. low education level  being interviewed in urdu or hindi  and low level of acculturation were associated with less knowledge and believing that chd is not preventable. conclusions a majority of south asians in this study believed that chd is not preventable and had low awareness of modifiable risk factors. as a first step  chd education should target the knowledge gaps that may affect risk factor control and behavior change. educational messages may need to be somewhat different for subgroups (e.g.  by education and language) to be maximally effective.
3554,dap kinase regulates jnk signaling by binding and activating protein kinase d under oxidative stress,the stress-activated kinase jnk mediates key cellular responses to oxidative stress. here we show that dap kinase (dapk)  a cell death promoting ser/thr protein kinase  plays a main role in oxidative stress-induced jnk signaling. we identify protein kinase d (pkd) as a novel substrate of dapk and demonstrate that dapk physically interacts with pkd in response to oxidative stress. we further show that dapk activates pkd in cells and that induction of jnk phosphorylation by ectopically expressed dapk can be attenuated by knocking down pkd expression or by inhibiting its catalytic activity. moreover  knockdown of dapk expression caused a marked reduction in jnk activation under oxidative stress  indicating that dapk is indispensable for the activation of jnk signaling under these conditions. finally  dapk is shown to be required for cell death under oxidative stress in a process that displays the characteristics of caspase-independent necrotic cell death. taken together  these findings establish a major role for dapk and its specific interaction with pkd in regulating the jnk signaling network under oxidative stress.
3556,mutated kras results in overexpression of dusp4  a map-kinase phosphatase  and smyd3  a histone methyltransferase  in rectal carcinomas.,mutations of the kras oncogene are predictive for resistance to treatment with antibodies against the epithelial growth factor receptor in patients with colorectal cancer. overcoming this therapeutic dilemma could potentially be achieved by the introduction of drugs that inhibit signaling pathways that are activated by kras mutations. to identify comprehensively such signaling pathways  we profiled pretreatment biopsies and normal mucosa from 65 patients with locally advanced rectal cancer-30 of which carried mutated kras-using global gene expression microarrays. by comparing all tumor tissues exclusively to matched normal mucosa  we could improve assay sensitivity  and identified a total of 22 297 features that were differentially expressed (adjusted p-value <0.05) between normal mucosa and cancer  including several novel potential rectal cancer genes. we then used this comprehensive description of the rectal cancer transcriptome as the baseline for identifying kras-dependent alterations. the presence of activating kras mutations is significantly correlated to an upregulation of 13 genes (adjusted p-value <0.05)  among them dusp4  a map-kinase phosphatase  and smyd3  a histone methyltransferase. inhibition of the expression of both genes has previously been shown using the mek1-inhibitor pd98059 and the antibacterial compound novobiocin  respectively. these findings suggest a potential approach to overcome resistance to treatment with antibodies against the epithelial growth factor receptor in patients with kras-mutant rectal carcinomas.
3558,dexamethasone decreases vomiting by children after tonsillectomy.,we evaluated the effect of dexamethasone on vomiting after elective tonsillectomy in 133 healthy children aged 2-12 yr in a randomized  stratified  blocked  double-blind  placebo-controlled study. general anesthesia was induced by inhalation of n2o and halothane or intravenously (iv) with propofol. anesthesia was maintained with n2o and halothane. dexamethasone 150 micrograms/kg up to a maximum dose of 8 mg  or placebo  was administered iv before surgery. all patients received 1.5 mg/kg codeine intramuscularly (im) intraoperatively. perioperative iv fluids  management of emesis  postoperative pain and hospital discharge criteria were all standardized. the groups were similar with respect to number  age  weight  length of surgery  and estimated intraoperative blood loss. dexamethasone reduced the overall incidence of vomiting from 72% (placebo) to 40% (p < 0.001). vomiting  both in-hospital and postdischarge  was decreased by the prophylactic administration of dexamethasone. each episode of in-hospital vomiting prolonged discharge by 13 +/- 2 min  mean +/- sd (p < 0.001). in conclusion  dexamethasone markedly decreased vomiting by healthy children after elective tonsillectomy in an ambulatory hospital setting.
3560,lumi: a pipeline for processing illumina microarray.,unlabelled illumina microarray is becoming a popular microarray platform. the beadarray technology from illumina makes its preprocessing and quality control different from other microarray technologies. unfortunately  most other analyses have not taken advantage of the unique properties of the beadarray system  and have just incorporated preprocessing methods originally designed for affymetrix microarrays. lumi is a bioconductor package especially designed to process the illumina microarray data. it includes data input  quality control  variance stabilization  normalization and gene annotation portions. in specific  the lumi package includes a variance-stabilizing transformation (vst) algorithm that takes advantage of the technical replicates available on every illumina microarray. different normalization method options and multiple quality control plots are provided in the package. to better annotate the illumina data  a vendor independent nucleotide universal identifier (nuid) was devised to identify the probes of illumina microarray. the nuid annotation packages and output of lumi processed results can be easily integrated with other bioconductor packages to construct a statistical data analysis pipeline for illumina data. availability the lumi bioconductor package  www.bioconductor.org
3562,ecological analysis of ethnic differences in relation between tuberculosis and poverty.,objective to examine the effect of ethnicity on the relation between tuberculosis and deprivation. design retrospective ecological study comparing incidence of tuberculosis in white and south asian residents of the 39 electoral wards in birmingham with ethnic specific indices of deprivation. setting birmingham  1989-93. subjects 1516 notified cases of tuberculosis. main outcome measures rates of tuberculosis and measures of deprivation. results univariate analysis showed significant associations of tuberculosis rates for the whole population with several indices of deprivation (p<0.01) and with the proportion of the population of south asian origin (p<0.01). all deprivation covariates were positively associated with each other but on multiple regression  higher level of overcrowding was independently associated with tuberculosis rates. for the white population  overcrowding was associated with tuberculosis rates independently of other variables (p=0.0036). no relation with deprivation was found for the south asian population in either single or multivariable analyses. conclusions poverty is significantly associated with tuberculosis in the white population  but no such relation exists for those of asian ethnicity. these findings suggest that causal factors  and therefore potential interventions  will also differ by ethnic group.
3564,atopy risk in infants and children in relation to early exposure to fish  oily fish  or long-chain omega-3 fatty acids: a systematic review.,there are two main families of polyunsaturated fatty acids (pufas)  the n-6 and the n-3 families. it has been suggested that there is a causal relationship between n-6 pufa intake and allergic disease  and there are biologically plausible mechanisms  involving eicosanoid mediators of the n-6 pufa arachidonic acid  that could explain this. fish and fish oils are sources of long-chain n-3 pufas and these fatty acids act to oppose the actions of n-6 pufas. thus  it is considered that n-3 pufas will protect against atopic sensitization and against the clinical manifestations of atopy. evidence to examine this has been acquired from epidemiologic studies investigating associations between fish intake in pregnancy  lactation  infancy  and childhood  and atopic outcomes in infants and children and from intervention studies with fish oil supplements in pregnancy  lactation  infancy  and childhood  and atopic outcomes in infants and children. all five epidemiological studies investigating the effect of maternal fish intake during pregnancy on atopic or allergic outcomes in infants/children of those pregnancies concluded protective associations. one study investigating the effects of maternal fish intake during lactation did not observe any significant associations. the evidence from epidemiological studies investigating the effects of fish intake during infancy and childhood on atopic outcomes in those infants or children is inconsistent  although the majority of the studies (nine of 14) showed a protective effect of fish intake during infancy or childhood on atopic outcomes in those infants/children. fish oil supplementation during pregnancy and lactation or during infancy or childhood results in a higher n-3 pufa status in the infants or children. fish oil provision to pregnant women is associated with immunologic changes in cord blood and such changes may persist. studies performed to date indicate that provision of fish oil during pregnancy may reduce sensitization to common food allergens and reduce prevalence and severity of atopic dermatitis in the first year of life  with a possible persistence until adolescence with a reduction in eczema  hay fever  and asthma. fish oil provision to infants or children may be associated with immunologic changes in the blood but it is not clear if these are of clinical significance and whether they persist. fish oil supplementation in infancy may decrease the risk of developing some manifestations of allergic disease  but this benefit may not persist as other factors come into play. it is not clear whether fish oil can be used to treat children with asthma as the two studies conducted to date give divergent results. further studies of increased long-chain n-3 pufa provision in during pregnancy  lactation  and infancy are needed to more clearly identify the immunologic and clinical effects in infants and children and to identify protective and therapeutic effects and their persistence.
3566,the epidemiology of major depressive disorder: results from the national comorbidity survey replication (ncs-r).,context uncertainties exist about prevalence and correlates of major depressive disorder (mdd). objective to present nationally representative data on prevalence and correlates of mdd by diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders  fourth edition (dsm-iv) criteria  and on study patterns and correlates of treatment and treatment adequacy from the recently completed national comorbidity survey replication (ncs-r). design face-to-face household survey conducted from february 2001 to december 2002. setting the 48 contiguous united states. participants household residents ages 18 years or older (n = 9090) who responded to the ncs-r survey. main outcome measures prevalence and correlates of mdd using the world health organization's (who) composite international diagnostic interview (cidi)  12-month severity with the quick inventory of depressive symptomatology self-report (qids-sr)  the sheehan disability scale (sds)  and the who disability assessment scale (who-das). clinical reinterviews used the structured clinical interview for dsm-iv. results the prevalence of cidi mdd for lifetime was 16.2% (95% confidence interval [ci]  15.1-17.3) (32.6-35.1 million us adults) and for 12-month was 6.6% (95% ci  5.9-7.3) (13.1-14.2 million us adults). virtually all cidi 12-month cases were independently classified as clinically significant using the qids-sr  with 10.4% mild  38.6% moderate  38.0% severe  and 12.9% very severe. mean episode duration was 16 weeks (95% ci  15.1-17.3). role impairment as measured by sds was substantial as indicated by 59.3% of 12-month cases with severe or very severe role impairment. most lifetime (72.1%) and 12-month (78.5%) cases had comorbid cidi/dsm-iv disorders  with mdd only rarely primary. although 51.6% (95% ci  46.1-57.2) of 12-month cases received health care treatment for mdd  treatment was adequate in only 41.9% (95% ci  35.9-47.9) of these cases  resulting in 21.7% (95% ci  18.1-25.2) of 12-month mdd being adequately treated. sociodemographic correlates of treatment were far less numerous than those of prevalence. conclusions major depressive disorder is a common disorder  widely distributed in the population  and usually associated with substantial symptom severity and role impairment. while the recent increase in treatment is encouraging  inadequate treatment is a serious concern. emphasis on screening and expansion of treatment needs to be accompanied by a parallel emphasis on treatment quality improvement.
3568,temsirolimus  interferon alfa  or both for advanced renal-cell carcinoma.,background interferon alfa is widely used for metastatic renal-cell carcinoma but has limited efficacy and tolerability. temsirolimus  a specific inhibitor of the mammalian target of rapamycin kinase  may benefit patients with this disease. methods in this multicenter  phase 3 trial  we randomly assigned 626 patients with previously untreated  poor-prognosis metastatic renal-cell carcinoma to receive 25 mg of intravenous temsirolimus weekly  3 million u of interferon alfa (with an increase to 18 million u) subcutaneously three times weekly  or combination therapy with 15 mg of temsirolimus weekly plus 6 million u of interferon alfa three times weekly. the primary end point was overall survival in comparisons of the temsirolimus group and the combination-therapy group with the interferon group. results patients who received temsirolimus alone had longer overall survival (hazard ratio for death  0.73; 95% confidence interval [ci]  0.58 to 0.92; p=0.008) and progression-free survival (p<0.001) than did patients who received interferon alone. overall survival in the combination-therapy group did not differ significantly from that in the interferon group (hazard ratio  0.96; 95% ci  0.76 to 1.20; p=0.70). median overall survival times in the interferon group  the temsirolimus group  and the combination-therapy group were 7.3  10.9  and 8.4 months  respectively. rash  peripheral edema  hyperglycemia  and hyperlipidemia were more common in the temsirolimus group  whereas asthenia was more common in the interferon group. there were fewer patients with serious adverse events in the temsirolimus group than in the interferon group (p=0.02). conclusions as compared with interferon alfa  temsirolimus improved overall survival among patients with metastatic renal-cell carcinoma and a poor prognosis. the addition of temsirolimus to interferon did not improve survival. (clinicaltrials.gov number  nct00065468 [clinicaltrials.gov].).
3570,ankle brachial index as a predictor of cognitive impairment in the general population: ten-year follow-up of the edinburgh artery study.,objectives to determine whether the ankle brachial index (abi  a marker of generalized atherosclerosis) is associated with cognitive impairment after 10 years in older people. design cohort study (edinburgh artery study). setting eleven general practices in edinburgh  scotland. participants seven hundred seventeen men and women aged 55 to 74 from the general population  followed for 10 years. measurements abi measured at baseline and major cognitive functions (including premorbid function using the national adult reading test  nart) tested after 10 years. results after adjustment for age and sex  a low abi was associated with lower scoring (bottom tertile vs top tertile) on raven's matrices (odds ratio (or)=1.6  95% confidence interval (ci) =1.0-2.6)  verbal fluency (or =1.8  95% ci =1.1-3.0)  and digit symbol test (or =2.3  95% ci =1.3-4.2)  suggesting that the abi is predictive of poorer performance in nonverbal reasoning  verbal fluency  and information processing speed. the association between abi and the digit symbol test remained significant after further adjustment for premorbid cognitive function (tested using the nart)  suggesting that the abi is also predictive of decline in information processing speed (from premorbid ability to that measured here in older age). conclusion the abi may be useful in identifying older individuals at higher risk of cognitive impairment. in the future  preventive measures developed to target individuals with a low abi should consider measures to reduce vascular-related cognitive decline as well as cardiovascular events  in an effort to reduce the incidence and consequences of subsequent cognitive impairment and dementia.
3572,genetic analysis of an ars element from the fission yeast schizosaccharomyces pombe.,ars (autonomously replicating sequence) elements are dna fragments that can function as origins of dna replication in yeast. we report the first fine-structure analysis of ars1  an ars element of the fission yeast schizosaccharomyces pombe. characterization of a series of nested deletion mutations indicated that the minimal fragment of dna encompassing ars1 is surprisingly large. no fragment < 650 bp retained significant ars activity. analysis of deletion and substitution mutations scanning the entire minimal ars1 identified a single essential 50 bp fragment (segment 1). only one other 50 bp mutation reduced activity as much as 5-fold and most deletions were without effect. thus  the minimal ars1 is composed of two general types of genetic elements  a small segment that is absolutely required for efficient ars activity and a much larger region that is tolerant of internal structural alterations. higher resolution analysis of segment 1 defined a critical 30 bp a/t-rich segment which appears to contain redundant genetic elements. schizosaccharomyces pombe ars1 promoted high frequency transformation in the budding yeast s.cerevisiae but this heterologous activity was not dependent on segment 1. our analysis indicates that the functional elements required for ars function in s.pombe and s.cerevisiae are clearly different.
3574,role of the cytoskeleton during leukocyte responses,the cytoskeleton is a cellular network of structural  adaptor and signalling molecules that regulates most cellular functions that are related to the immune response  including migration  extravasation  antigen recognition  activation and phagocytosis by different subsets of leukocytes. recently  a large number of regulatory elements and structural constituents of the leukocyte cytoskeleton have been identified. in this review  we discuss the composition and regulation of the different cytoskeletal elements and their role in immune responses.
3576,comparison of clomiphene citrate  metformin  or the combination of both for first-line ovulation induction and achievement of pregnancy in 154 women with polycystic ovary syndrome.,objective to determine which first-line medication is more effective in polycystic ovary syndrome (pcos) patients for ovulation induction and pregnancy achievement and to verify whether any patient characteristic is associated with a better response to therapy. design observational comparative study. setting fertility clinic. patient(s) one hundred fifty-four infertile women with oligomenorrhea and hyperandrogenism. intervention(s) group 1 (56 patients) received clomiphene citrate (cc) 50 mg from days 5-9 of the cycle. group 2 (57 patients) received 500 mg of metformin 3 times a day. group 3 (41 patients) received both medications. main outcome measure(s) ovulation and pregnancy. result(s) patients receiving metformin alone had an increased ovulation rate compared with those receiving cc alone (75.4% vs. 50%). patients on metformin had similar ovulation rates compared with those in the combination group (75.4% vs. 63.4%). pregnancy rates were equivalent in the 3 groups. response to metformin was independent of body weight and dose. finally  nonsmoking predicted better ovulatory response overall as well as lower fasting glucose for cc and lower androgens for metformin. conclusion(s) metformin is better for ovulation induction than cc alone and equivalent for pregnancy achievement. we suggest that metformin can be used first for ovulation induction in patients with pcos regardless of their weight and insulin levels because of its efficacy and known safety profile.
3578,divalent cations differentially regulate integrin alphaiib cytoplasmic tail binding to beta3 and to calcium- and integrin-binding protein.,we have used recombinant or synthetic alphaiib and beta3 integrin cytoplasmic peptides to study their in vitro complexation and ligand binding capacity by surface plasmon resonance. alpha.beta heterodimerization occurred in a 1:1 stoichiometry with a weak kd in the micromolar range. divalent cations were not required for this association but stabilized the alpha.beta complex by decreasing the dissociation rate. alpha.beta complexation was impaired by the r995a substitution or the kvgffkr deletion in alphaiib but not by the beta3 s752p mutation. recombinant calcium- and integrin-binding protein (cib)  an alphaiib-specific ligand  bound to the alphaiib cytoplasmic peptide in a ca2+- or mn2+-independent  one-to-one reaction with a kd value of 12 microm. in contrast  in vitro liquid phase binding of cib to intact alphaiibbeta3 occurred preferentially with mn2+-activated alphaiibbeta3 conformers  as demonstrated by enhanced coimmunoprecipitation of cib with pac-1-captured mn2+-activated alphaiibbeta3  suggesting that mn2+ activation of intact alphaiibbeta3 induces the exposure of a cib-binding site  spontaneously exposed by the free alphaiib peptide. since cib did not stimulate pac-1 binding to inactive alphaiibbeta3 nor prevented activated alphaiibbeta3 occupancy by pac-1  we conclude that cib does not regulate alphaiibbeta3 inside-out signaling  but rather is involved in an alphaiibbeta3 post-receptor occupancy event.
3580,association between cyp2d6 polymorphisms and outcomes among women with early stage breast cancer treated with tamoxifen.,context the growth inhibitory effect of tamoxifen  which is used for the treatment of hormone receptor-positive breast cancer  is mediated by its metabolites  4-hydroxytamoxifen and endoxifen. the formation of active metabolites is catalyzed by the polymorphic cytochrome p450 2d6 (cyp2d6) enzyme. objective to determine whether cyp2d6 variation is associated with clinical outcomes in women receiving adjuvant tamoxifen. design  setting  and patients retrospective analysis of german and us cohorts of patients treated with adjuvant tamoxifen for early stage breast cancer. the 1325 patients had diagnoses between 1986 and 2005 of stage i through iii breast cancer and were mainly postmenopausal (95.4%). last follow-up was in december 2008; inclusion criteria were hormone receptor positivity  no metastatic disease at diagnosis  adjuvant tamoxifen therapy  and no chemotherapy. dna from tumor tissue or blood was genotyped for cyp2d6 variants associated with reduced (*10  *41) or absent (*3  *4  *5) enzyme activity. women were classified as having an extensive (n=609)  heterozygous extensive/intermediate (n=637)  or poor (n=79) cyp2d6 metabolism. main outcome measures time to recurrence  event-free survival  disease-free survival  and overall survival. results median follow-up was 6.3 years. at 9 years of follow-up  the recurrence rates were 14.9% for extensive metabolizers  20.9% for heterozygous extensive/intermediate metabolizers  and 29.0% for poor metabolizers  and all-cause mortality rates were 16.7%  18.0%  and 22.8%  respectively. compared with extensive metabolizers  there was a significantly increased risk of recurrence for heterozygous extensive/intermediate metabolizers (time to recurrence adjusted hazard ratio [hr]  1.40; 95% confidence interval [ci]  1.04-1.90) and for poor metabolizers (time to recurrence hr  1.90; 95% ci  1.10-3.28). compared with extensive metabolizers  those with decreased cyp2d6 activity (heterozygous extensive/intermediate and poor metabolism) had worse event-free survival (hr  1.33; 95% ci  1.06-1.68) and disease-free survival (hr  1.29; 95% ci  1.03-1.61)  but there was no significant difference in overall survival (hr  1.15; 95% ci  0.88-1.51). conclusion among women with breast cancer treated with tamoxifen  there was an association between cyp2d6 variation and clinical outcomes  such that the presence of 2 functional cyp2d6 alleles was associated with better clinical outcomes and the presence of nonfunctional or reduced-function alleles with worse outcomes.
3582,decreased proteasomal activity causes age-related phenotypes and promotes the development of metabolic abnormalities.,the proteasome is a multicatalytic enzyme complex responsible for the degradation of both normal and damaged proteins. an age-related decline in proteasomal activity has been implicated in various age-related pathologies. the relevance of decreased proteasomal activity to aging and age-related diseases remains unclear  however  because suitable animal models are not available. in the present study  we established a transgenic (tg) mouse model with decreased proteasomal chymotrypsin-like activity. tg mice exhibited a shortened life span and developed age-related phenotypes. in tg mice  polyubiquitinated and oxidized proteins accumulated  and the expression levels of cellular proteins such as bcl-xl and rnase l were altered. when tg mice were fed a high-fat diet  they developed more pronounced obesity and hepatic steatosis than did wild-type mice. consistent with its role in lipid droplet formation  the expression of adipose differentiation-related protein (adrp) was elevated in the livers of tg mice. of note  obesity and hepatic steatosis induced by a high-fat diet were more pronounced in aged than in young wild-type mice  and aged wild-type mice had elevated levels of adrp  suggesting that the metabolic abnormalities present in tg mice mimic those in aged mice. our results provide the first in vivo evidence that decreased proteasomal chymotrypsin-like activity affects longevity and aggravates age-related metabolic disorders  such as obesity and hepatic steatosis.
3584,oxidative stress in cancer associated fibroblasts drives tumor-stroma co-evolution: a new paradigm for understanding tumor metabolism  the field effect and genomic instability in cancer cells.,loss of stromal fibroblast caveolin-1 (cav-1) is a powerful single independent predictor of poor prognosis in human breast cancer patients  and is associated with early tumor recurrence  lymph node metastasis and tamoxifen-resistance. we developed a novel co-culture system to understand the mechanism(s) by which a loss of stromal fibroblast cav-1 induces a "lethal tumor micro-environment. " here  we propose a new paradigm to explain the powerful prognostic value of stromal cav-1. in this model  cancer cells induce oxidative stress in cancer-associated fibroblasts  which then acts as a "metabolic" and "mutagenic" motor to drive tumor-stroma co-evolution  dna damage and aneuploidy in cancer cells. more specifically  we show that an acute loss of cav-1 expression leads to mitochondrial dysfunction  oxidative stress and aerobic glycolysis in cancer associated fibroblasts. also  we propose that defective mitochondria are removed from cancer-associated fibroblasts by autophagy/mitophagy that is induced by oxidative stress. as a consequence  cancer associated fibroblasts provide nutrients (such as lactate) to stimulate mitochondrial biogenesis and oxidative metabolism in adjacent cancer cells (the "reverse warburg effect"). we provide evidence that oxidative stress in cancer-associated fibroblasts is sufficient to induce genomic instability in adjacent cancer cells  via a bystander effect  potentially increasing their aggressive behavior. finally  we directly demonstrate that nitric oxide (no) over-production  secondary to cav-1 loss  is the root cause for mitochondrial dysfunction in cancer associated fibroblasts. in support of this notion  treatment with anti-oxidants (such as n-acetyl-cysteine  metformin and quercetin) or no inhibitors (l-name) was sufficient to reverse many of the cancer-associated fibroblast phenotypes that we describe. thus  cancer cells use "oxidative stress" in adjacent fibroblasts (i) as an "engine" to fuel their own survival via the stromal production of nutrients and (ii) to drive their own mutagenic evolution towards a more aggressive phenotype  by promoting genomic instability. we also present evidence that the "field effect" in cancer biology could also be related to the stromal production of ros and no species. enos-expressing fibroblasts have the ability to downregulate cav-1 and induce mitochondrial dysfunction in adjacent fibroblasts that do not express enos. as such  the effects of stromal oxidative stress can be laterally propagated  amplified and are effectively "contagious"--spread from cell-to-cell like a virus--creating an "oncogenic/mutagenic" field promoting widespread dna damage.
3586,reduced osteoblastic population and defective mineralization in osteopetrotic (op/op) mice.,osteopetrotic (op/op) mice fail to exhibit bone remodeling because of a defective osteoclast formation due to a lack of macrophage colony-stimulating factor. in this study  we investigated the femora of op/op mice to clarify whether the osteoblastic population and bone mineralization are involved in osteoclasts or their bone resorption. the op/op mice extended the meshwork of trabecular bones from the chondro-osseous junction to the diaphyseal region. in the femoral metaphyses of op/op mice  intense alkaline phosphatase (alpase)-positive osteoblasts were observed on the metaphyseal bone in close proximity to the erosion zone of the growth plates. von kossa's staining revealed scattered mineralized nodules and a fine meshwork of mineralized bone matrices while the wild-type littermates developed well-mineralized trabeculae parallel to the longitudinal axis. in contrast to the metaphysis  some op/op diaphyses showed flattened osteoblasts with weak alpase-positivity  and the other diaphyses displayed bone surfaces without a covering by osteoblasts. it is likely  therefore  that the osteoblastic population and activity were lessened in the op/op diaphyses. despite the osteopetrotic model  von kossa's staining demonstrated patchy unmineralized areas in the op/op diaphyses  indicating that a lower population and/or the activity of osteoblasts resulted in defective mineralization in the bone. transmission electron microscopy disclosed few osteoblasts on the diaphyseal bones  and instead  bone marrow cells and vascular endothelial cells were often attached to the unmineralized bone. osteocytes were embedded in the unmineralized bone matrix. thus  osteoclasts appear to be involved in the osteoblastic population and activity as well as subsequent bone mineralization.
3588,notch promotes survival of pre–t cells at the β-selection checkpoint by regulating cellular metabolism,notch signals are necessary for the functional outcomes of t cell receptor β-selection  including differentiation  proliferation and rescue from apoptosis. the mechanism underlying this requirement for t cell development is unknown. here we show that notch receptor and delta-like 1 ligand interactions promoted the survival of cd4−cd8− pre–t cells through the maintenance of cell size  glucose uptake and metabolism. furthermore  the trophic effects of notch signaling were mediated by the pathway of phosphatidylinositol-3-oh kinase and the kinase akt  such that expression of active atk overcame the requirement for notch in β-selection. collectively  our results demonstrate involvement of notch receptor–ligand interactions in the regulation of cellular metabolism  thus enabling the autonomous signaling capacity of the pre–t cell receptor complex.*note: in the version of this article initially published online  in the fourth sentence of the abstract  the term "atk" was a misspelling; this should be "akt. " in the fourth sentence of the second paragraph of the introduction  the name of the second kinase mentioned  "pi(3)k-dependent kinase 1 " was incorrect; this should read "phosphoinositide-dependent kinase 1. " these errors have been corrected for the html and print versions of the article.
3590,heart failure admissions in adults with congenital heart disease; risk factors and prognosis.,background heart failure (hf) is a serious complication and often the cause of death in adults with congenital heart disease (chd). therefore  our aims were to determine the frequency of hf-admissions  and to assess risk factors of first hf-admission and of mortality after first hf-admission in adults with chd. methods the dutch concor registry was linked to the hospital discharge registry and national mortality registry to obtain data on hf-admissions and mortality. risk factors for both hf-admission and mortality were assessed using cox regression models. results of 10 808 adult patients (49% male)  274 (2.5%) were admitted for hf during a median follow-up period of 21 years. the incidence of first hf-admission was 1.2 per 1000 patient-years  but the incidence of hf itself will be higher. main defect  multiple defects  and surgical interventions in childhood were identified as independent risk factors of hf-admission. patients admitted for hf had a five-fold higher risk of mortality than patients not admitted (hazard ratio (hr)=5.3; 95% confidence interval 4.2-6.9). one- and three-year mortality after first hf-admission were 24% and 35% respectively. independent risk factors for three-year mortality after first hf-admission were male gender  pacemaker implantation  admission duration  non-cardiac medication use and high serum creatinine. conclusions the incidence of hf-admission in adults with chd is 1.2 per 1000 patient-years. mortality risk is substantially increased after hf-admission  which emphasises the importance to identify patients at high risk of hf-admission. these patients might benefit from closer follow-up and earlier medical interventions. the presented risk factors may facilitate surveillance.
3592,polymorphisms in egfr and il28b are associated with spontaneous clearance in an hcv-infected iranian population,although most hepatitis c virus (hcv)-infected individuals develop chronic infection  about 25% of them are able to clear the virus spontaneously without any therapeutic intervention. the aim of the present study was to identify genes associated with spontaneous hcv clearance in a population of iranian patients. we genotyped 110 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (snps) in 59 selected—candidate—genes in a cohort of 107 hcv-infected participants who spontaneously cleared the infection and 176 participants whose infection persisted. three out of the 110 snps were found to be associated with hcv outcome (p-values<0.03). rs11506105 in egfr (epidermal growth factor receptor gene)  and rs11881222 and rs12979860 in il28b (interferon-λ3 gene). multivariate logistic regression of the three markers showed that the a/a genotypes in both rs11506105 (efgr) and rs11881222 (il28b)  and the c/c genotype in rs12979860 (il28b) are associated with hcv clearance (recessive model: odds ratio (or)=2.06  95% confidence interval (95% ci)=1.09–3.88  p=0.025; or=2.09  95% ci=1.23–3.60  p=0.007; and or=1.95  95% ci=1.15–3.35  p=0.014 for rs11506105  rs12979860 and rs11881222  respectively). in conclusion  egfr and il28b snps are strong independent predictive markers of spontaneous viral clearance.
3594,radical prostatectomy for pathological gleason 8 or greater prostate cancer: influence of concomitant pathological variables.,purpose we evaluated the long-term outcome of radical prostatectomy for pathological gleason score 8 or greater prostate cancer and characterized the prognostic significance of other pathological variables. materials and methods a total of 6 419 patients underwent radical prostatectomy between 1987 and 1996. there were 407 patients classified as having pathological gleason 8 or greater  including 8 in 48%  9 in 49% and 10 in 3%. adjuvant treatment was used in 45% of patients and adjuvant hormonal therapy was administered to 155 (38%). progression-free  including local or systemic  and/or prostate specific antigen (psa) 0.4 ng./ml. or greater  and cancer specific survival were determined by the kaplan-meier method. the effect of pathological grade and stage  preoperative psa  dna ploidy  margin status  tumor dimension  seminal vesicle invasion  and adjuvant treatment was assessed with the univariate and multivariate analyses. results pathological stage distribution was pt2 in 26% of patients  pt3 48% and ptxn+ 27%. overall and progression-free survival at 10 years was 67% and 36%  respectively  compared to cancer specific survival 85%. adjuvant treatment  pathological stage  preoperative psa and pathological grade were significant (less than 0.05) univariate predictors of progression-free survival. pathological stage  margin status and ploidy were univariately associated with cancer specific survival. progression-free survival at 10 years of those patients who did and did not receive adjuvant treatment was 52% and 23%  respectively. in the multivariate analysis pathological grade (p=0.02)  preoperative psa (p <0.0001)  adjuvant therapy (p <0.0001) and pathological stage (p=0.036) were significant independent predictors of progression-free survival. conclusions high grade prostate cancer can be controlled with radical prostatectomy in some patients with disease confined pathologically  and 10-year cause specific survival is 96%. predictors of outcome in patients with gleason 8 disease or greater are similar to established predictors derived by using all grades. although adjuvant hormonal therapy appears to improve disease progression rates after radical prostatectomy on the basis of this nonrandomized study  it may not affect prostate cancer death rates within 10 years in patients with high grade cancer.
3596,[acupuncture combined with auricular point sticking therapy for post stroke depression:a randomized controlled trial].,objective to observe the clinical effects of acupuncture combined with auricular point sticking based on the western medication for post stroke depression (psd). methods sixty patients with psd were randomly assigned into an acupuncture plus auricular application group (a combination group) and a medication group  30 cases in each one. 20 mg paroxetine hydrochloride was prescribed orally in the medication group  once a day for continuous 8 weeks. based on the above treatment  30-minute acupuncture was used in the combination group for 8 weeks at baihui (gv 20)  sishencong (ex-hn 1)  shenting (gv 24)  yintang (gv 29)  shenmen (ht 7)  neiguan (pc 6)  taichong (lr 3)  hegu (li 4)  zusanli (st 36)  sanyinjiao (sp 6) and fenglong (st 40)  once the other day and three times a week. auricular point sticking therapy for 8 weeks was applied at shenmen (tf4)  pizhixia (at4)  xin (co15)  and gan (co12)  with pressing 3 times a day and once 3-5 days. the total score and each factor scores of hamilton's depression scale (hamd) were observed in the two groups before and after treatment  and asberg's antidepressant side-effect rating scale (sers) and clinical effect were evaluated. results after treatment  the total hamd scores of the two groups decreased compared with those before treatment (both p<0.05)  with better effect in the combination group (p<0.05). the scores of the combination group after treatment were lower than those in the medication group  including the anxiety/somatization factor  sleep disturbance factor  hopelessness factor (all p<0.05). the total effective rate of the combination group was 86.7% (26/30)  which was better than 66.7% (20/30) of the medication group (p<0.05). the sers score of the combination group was lower than that of the medication group (p<0.05). conclusions acupuncture combined with auricular point sticking can improve the clinical symptoms and are effective and safe for psd.
3598,coordinated actions of slx1-slx4 and mus81-eme1 for holliday junction resolution in human cells.,holliday junctions (hjs) are four-way dna intermediates that form during homologous recombination  and their efficient resolution is essential for chromosome segregation. here  we show that three structure-selective endonucleases  namely slx1-slx4  mus81-eme1  and gen1  define two pathways of hj resolution in human cells. one pathway is mediated by gen1  whereas slx1-slx4 and mus81-eme1 provide a second and genetically distinct pathway (slx-mus). cells depleted for slx-mus or gen1 pathway proteins exhibit severe defects in chromosome segregation and reduced survival. in response to cdk-mediated phosphorylation  slx1-slx4 and mus81-eme1 associate at the g2/m transition to form a stable slx-mus holoenzyme  which can be reconstituted in vitro. biochemical studies show that slx-mus is a hj resolvase that coordinates the active sites of two distinct endonucleases during hj resolution. this cleavage reaction is more efficient and orchestrated than that mediated by slx1-slx4 alone  which exhibits a potent nickase activity that acts promiscuously upon dna secondary structures.
3600,htlv-i/ii associated disease in england and wales  1993-7: retrospective review of serology requests.,apart from hiv two exogenous retroviruses (human t cell leukaemia viruses type i (htlv-i) and type ii (htlv-ii)) infect humans. htlv-i infection is endemic in japan  the caribbean  africa  and melanesia and is found among immigrants from these regions in europe. htlv-i infection is associated with a 1-5% lifetime risk of adult t cell leukaemia/lymphoma  1 a 0.25% lifetime risk of htlv-i associated myelopathy  2 and other inflammatory conditions (uveitis  alveolitis  and arthritis).1 htlv-ii infection is endemic in some native american and african peoples and among injecting drug users and has been associated with neurological disease.1 between 1986 and 1992  100 cases of htlv-i associated myelopathy and 44 cases of adult t cell leukaemia/lymphoma were diagnosed in the united kingdom.3 adult t cell leukaemia/lymphoma was first described in 1977 and patients with it have a mean life expectancy of only six months  so most of the 44 cases were probably incident cases. …
3602,eif2ak3  encoding translation initiation factor 2-α kinase 3  is mutated in patients with wolcott-rallison syndrome,wolcott-rallison syndrome (wrs) is a rare  autosomal recessive disorder characterized by permanent neonatal or early infancy insulin-dependent diabetes. epiphyseal dysplasia  osteoporosis and growth retardation occur at a later age. other frequent multisystemic manifestations include hepatic and renal dysfunction  mental retardation and cardiovascular abnormalities. on the basis of two consanguineous families  we mapped wrs to a region of less than 3 cm on chromosome 2p12  with maximal evidence of linkage and homozygosity at 4 microsatellite markers within an interval of approximately 1 cm. the gene encoding the eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2-α kinase 3 (eif2ak3) resides in this interval; thus we explored it as a candidate. we identified distinct mutations of eif2ak3 that segregated with the disorder in each of the families. the first mutation produces a truncated protein in which the entire catalytic domain is missing. the other changes an amino acid  located in the catalytic domain of the protein  that is highly conserved among kinases from the same subfamily. our results provide evidence for the role of eif2ak3 in wrs. the identification of this gene may provide insight into the understanding of the more common forms of diabetes and other pathologic manifestations of wrs.
3604,aging  frailty and age-related diseases,the concept of frailty as a medically distinct syndrome has evolved based on the clinical experience of geriatricians and is clinically well recognizable. frailty is a nonspecific state of vulnerability  which reflects multisystem physiological change. these changes underlying frailty do not always achieve disease status  so some people  usually very elderly  are frail without a specific life threatening illness. current thinking is that not only physical but also psychological  cognitive and social factors contribute to this syndrome and need to be taken into account in its definition and treatment. together  these signs and symptoms seem to reflect a reduced functional reserve and consequent decrease in adaptation (resilience) to any sort of stressor and perhaps even in the absence of extrinsic stressors. the overall consequence is that frail elderly are at higher risk for accelerated physical and cognitive decline  disability and death. all these characteristics associated with frailty can easily be applied to the definition and characterization of the aging process per se and there is little consensus in the literature concerning the physiological/biological pathways associated with or determining frailty. it is probably true to say that a consensus view would implicate heightened chronic systemic inflammation as a major contributor to frailty. this review will focus on the relationship between aging  frailty and age-related diseases  and will highlight possible interventions to reduce the occurrence and effects of frailty in elderly people.
3606,genome-wide association study identifies variants at clu and cr1 associated with alzheimer's disease,the gene encoding apolipoprotein e (apoe) on chromosome 19 is the only confirmed susceptibility locus for late-onset alzheimer's disease. to identify other risk loci  we conducted a large genome-wide association study of 2 032 individuals from france with alzheimer's disease (cases) and 5 328 controls. markers outside apoe with suggestive evidence of association (p < 10−5) were examined in collections from belgium  finland  italy and spain totaling 3 978 alzheimer's disease cases and 3 297 controls. two loci gave replicated evidence of association: one within clu (also called apoj)  encoding clusterin or apolipoprotein j  on chromosome 8 (rs11136000  or = 0.86  95% ci 0.81–0.90  p = 7.5 × 10−9 for combined data) and the other within cr1  encoding the complement component (3b/4b) receptor 1  on chromosome 1 (rs6656401  or = 1.21  95% ci 1.14–1.29  p = 3.7 × 10−9 for combined data). previous biological studies support roles of clu and cr1 in the clearance of β amyloid (aβ) peptide  the principal constituent of amyloid plaques  which are one of the major brain lesions of individuals with alzheimer's disease.
3608,isolation of intact nuclei of high purity from mouse liver.,current methods of nuclear isolation from liver disrupt the plasmalemmae via homogenization and separation of the nuclei by high centrifugal force (hcf) through gradients of sucrose or other substances for up to 80 min. the use of hcf for such a long time increases the potential for nuclear damage and degradation by endogenous proteases. we compared four combinations of alterations to classical nuclear isolation methods as follows. mouse liver was gently crushed through a fine mesh with and without in vivo perfusion with collagenase. the cell suspension was centrifuged at 600 g to remove gross debris and then at moderate centrifugal force (mcf  16 000 g) or high centrifugal force (hcf  70 000 g) through sucrose gradients for 30 min. the purity of the isolated nuclei was assessed biologically and morphologically  including analyses of representative marker proteins for nuclei and cytoplasm. the results indicate that mcf and no collagenase provided the highest nuclear integrity and purity  whereas mcf with collagenase is a viable option if priority is given to yield. the method is especially suited for small samples and so should facilitate studies with human liver biopsies and livers from mice  the most widely used species for gene targeting.
3610,cytochemistry and c-values: the less-well-known world of nuclear dna amounts.,background in the plant sciences there are two widely applied technologies for measuring nuclear dna content: feulgen absorbance cytophotometry and flow cytometry (fcm). while fcm is  with good reasons  increasingly popular among plant scientists  absorbance-cytophotometric techniques lose ground. this results in a narrowing of the methodological repertoire  which is neither desirable nor beneficial. both approaches have their advantages  but static cytophotometry seems to pose more instrumental difficulties and material-based problems than fcm  so that feulgen-based data in the literature are often less reliable than one would expect. scope the purpose of this article is to present a selective overview of the field of nuclear dna content measurement  and c-values in particular  with a focus on the technical difficulties imposed by the characteristics of the biological material and with some comments on the photometrical aspects of the work. for over 20 years it has been known that plant polyphenols cause problems in feulgen dna cytophotometry  since they act as major staining inhibitors leading to unreliable results. however  little information is available about the chemical classes of plant metabolites capable of dna staining interference and the mechanisms of their inhibition. plant slimes are another source of concern. conclusions in fcm research to uncover the effects of secondary metabolites on measurement results has begun only recently. in particular  the analysis of intraspecific genome size variation demands a stringent methodology which accounts for inhibitors. fcm tests for inhibitory effects of endogenous metabolites should become obligatory. the use of dry seeds for harvesting embryo and endosperm nuclei for fcm and feulgen densitometry may often provide a means of circumventing staining inhibitors. the importance of internal standardization is highlighted. our goal is a better understanding of phytochemical/cytochemical interactions in plant dna photometry for the benefit of an ever-growing list of plant genome sizes.
3612,interplay between microtubule bundling and sorting factors ensures acentriolar spindle stability during c. elegans oocyte meiosis,in many species  oocyte meiosis is carried out in the absence of centrioles. as a result  microtubule organization  spindle assembly  and chromosome segregation proceed by unique mechanisms. here  we report insights into the principles underlying this specialized form of cell division  through studies of c. elegans klp-15 and klp-16  two highly homologous members of the kinesin-14 family of minus-end-directed kinesins. these proteins localize to the acentriolar oocyte spindle and promote microtubule bundling during spindle assembly; following klp-15/16 depletion  microtubule bundles form but then collapse into a disorganized array. surprisingly  despite this defect we found that during anaphase  microtubules are able to reorganize into a bundled array that facilitates chromosome segregation. this phenotype therefore enabled us to identify factors promoting microtubule organization during anaphase  whose contributions are normally undetectable in wild-type worms; we found that spd-1 (prc1) bundles microtubules and klp-18 (kinesin-12) likely sorts those bundles into a functional orientation capable of mediating chromosome segregation. therefore  our studies have revealed an interplay between distinct mechanisms that together promote spindle formation and chromosome segregation in the absence of structural cues such as centrioles.
3614,prevalence of multiple sclerosis in isfahan  iran,background: the prevalence of multiple sclerosis (ms) shows considerable variability all over the world. according to kurtzke  iran is considered to have a low prevalence. objective: to estimate the period prevalence and risk factors of ms in isfahan  central part of iran. methods: a cross-sectional case register study conducted between 2004 and 2005. in the province of isfahan  iran  all patients known to have definite ms during 2004 and 2005  being alive and resident within isfahan as well as being a member of the isfahan ms association were included in the study. demographic and case-related information was recorded. 1 391 definite ms patients (308 men and 1 083 women) from the isfahan ms association  iran  have been identified. the disease was confirmed using clinical information and mri findings by a neurologist and radiologist. the patients were evaluated by interview and a questionnaire. population data were obtained from the year 1999 iran census. the mean (sd) age of the participants was 32.5 (9.3) years with a mean (sd) duration of the disease of 6.4 (5.1) years for men and 6.9 (5.3) years for women. results: the period prevalence of ms was 35.5 per 100 000 [95% confidence interval (ci) 33.6–37.3] in a population of 3 923 255  with a higher rate in women than men [54.5 (95% ci: 51.1–57.8) for women and 14.9 (95% ci: 13.3–16.6) for men]. the female/male ratio was 3.6 (95% ci: 3.2–4.1). the direct age-adjusted period prevalence was 59.5 per 100 000 (95% ci: 44.8–75.2) for women and 17.0 per 100 000 (95% ci: 8.9–25.1) for men. ms rates were highest among 30- to 39-year-olds and decreased with increasing age. sensory and visual disturbances were the most common initial presentations with a prevalence of 51.1% (95% ci: 48.4–53.7) and 47.0% (95% ci: 44.4–49.7)  respectively. conclusion: isfahan could be considered as an area with a medium to high risk of ms. this is in sharp contrast with the gradient hypothesis.
3616,association between the medicare modernization act of 2003 and patient wait times and travel distance for chemotherapy.,context the medicare prescription drug  improvement  and modernization act of 2003 (mma) altered reimbursements for outpatient chemotherapy drugs and drug administration services. anecdotal reports suggest that these adjustments may have negatively affected access to chemotherapy for medicare beneficiaries. objective to compare patient wait times and travel distances for chemotherapy before and after the enactment of the mma. design  setting  and patients analysis of a nationally representative 5% sample of claims from the centers for medicare & medicaid services for the period 2003 through 2006. patients were medicare beneficiaries with incident breast cancer  colorectal cancer  leukemia  lung cancer  or lymphoma who received chemotherapy in inpatient hospital  institutional outpatient  or physician office settings. main outcome measures days from incident diagnosis to first chemotherapy visit and distance traveled for treatment  controlling for age  sex  race/ethnicity  cancer type  geographic region  comorbid conditions  and year of diagnosis and treatment. results there were 5082 incident cases of breast cancer  colorectal cancer  leukemia  lung cancer  or lymphoma in 2003; 5379 cases in 2004; 5116 cases in 2005; and 5288 cases in 2006. approximately 70% of patients received treatment in physician office settings in each year. although the distribution of treatment settings in 2004 and 2005 was not significantly different from 2003 (p = .24 and p = .72  respectively)  there was a small but significant change from 2003 to 2006 (p = .02). the proportion of patients receiving chemotherapy in inpatient settings decreased from 10.2% in 2003 to 8.8% in 2006 (p = .03)  and the proportion in institutional outpatient settings increased from 21.1% to 22.5% (p = .004). the proportion in physician offices remained at 68.7% (p = .29). the median time from diagnosis to initial chemotherapy visit was 28 days in 2003  27 days in 2004  29 days in 2005  and 28 days in 2006. in multivariate analyses  average wait times for chemotherapy were 1.96 days longer in 2005 than in 2003 (95% confidence interval [ci]  0.11-3.80 days; p = .04) but not significantly different in 2006 (0.88 days; 95% ci  -0.96 to 2.71 days; p = .35). median travel distance was 7 miles (11.2 km) in 2003 and 8 miles (12.8 km) in 2004 through 2006. after adjustment  average travel distance remained slightly longer in 2004 (1.47 miles [2.35 km]; 95% ci  0.87-2.07 miles [1.39-3.31 km]; p < .001)  2005 (1.19 miles [1.90 km]; 95% ci  0.58-1.80 miles [0.93-2.88 km]; p < .001)  and 2006 (1.30 miles [2.08 km]; 95% ci  0.69-1.90 miles [1.10-3.04 km]; p < .001) compared with 2003. conclusion there have not been major changes in travel distance and patient wait times for chemotherapy in the medicare population since 2003  the year before mma-related changes in reimbursement.
3618,role of beta adrenergic receptor polymorphisms in heart failure: systematic review and meta-analysis.,heart failure (hf) is a common disorder associated with substantial morbidity and mortality. beta adrenergic receptors (betaar) are the primary pathway through which cardiac function is influenced. chronic beta(1)ar activation is implicated in the pathogenesis of hf and betaar blockade improves survival in left ventricular systolic dysfunction. common functional polymorphisms in beta adrenergic receptor genes (adrb) have been associated with hf phenotypes  and with pharmacogenetic interaction with beta adrenergic receptor blockers (beta blockers). however  these associations have not been consistently replicated. the evidence for adrb variant involvement in pathogenesis  progression and response to beta blockers in hf is reviewed. in addition  a meta-analysis of three studies analysing the effect of adrb1 arg389gly polymorphism on left ventricular remodelling with the use of beta blockers  demonstrating a 5% improvement in left ventricular ejection fraction in arg389 homozygotes  is presented. there is now accumulating molecular evidence for a different functional response to beta blockers associated with this polymorphism. in the future  confirmed genotypic associations may enable patients to be identified who are either at greater risk of developing hf  whose hf may rapidly progress  or who are unlikely to benefit from beta blockers  and such patients may benefit from targeted aggressive therapy.
3620,hepatitis b and c in hiv-infected patients. prevalence and prognostic value.,background/aims there is only limited information on the prevalence and influence of coinfection with either hepatitis b or c on the clinical course in patients infected with the human immunodeficiency virus (hiv). methods follow-up was available in 232 hiv-infected patients (age 37+/-8 years  cd4 count 167+/-167 microl; 46% had aids). samples were investigated for markers of hbv and hcv infection (hbsag  hbeag  hbv-dna  anti-hbs  anti-hbc  anti-hcv  hcv-rna). results 60/232 patients (23%) were anti-hcv positive. 78% of these sera were positive for hcv-rna. 22/232 patients (9%) suffered from chronic hbv infection (hbsag positive)  18/22 (82%) of these sera had detectable hbeag and 19/22 (86%) hbv-dna. presence of hcv-rna  hbeag and amount of hbv-dna were related to the degree of immunodeficiency. in contrast to the control group without hbv or hcv infection  patients infected with hiv and either hbv or hcv showed a direct correlation between a reduction in cd4 counts and decreased cholinesterase activity. in patients with aids  coinfection with hbv or hcv was associated with a reduced survival compared to controls (hbv: 212 days  95%ci  106-317; hcv: 267  95%ci  112-396; controls: 439 days  95%ci  364-513). conclusions coinfection of hiv and hbv or hcv is frequently observed. our results suggest that with prolonged survival of hiv-infected patients  coinfection with either hbv or hcv correlates with a reduced survival rate.
3622,the expression of immediate early gene x-1 (iex-1) is differentially induced by retinoic acids in nb4 and kg1 cells: possible implication in the distinct phenotype of retinoic acid-responsive and -resistant leukemic cells,in a cell-type- and stimulus-dependent fashion  the early response gene immediate early gene x-1 (iex-1) is involved in growth control and modulation of apoptosis. the present study demonstrates that  in the two acute promyelocytic leukemia (apl) cell lines nb4 and kg1  exhibiting distinct responsiveness to retinoic acids (ras)  iex-1 expression is rapidly (30–60 min) induced by all-trans- or cis-ra and independently of other signal transduction mediators  such as tnfα  nf-κb or map kinases. in nb4 cells (expressing pml–rarα)  this increase is transient and completely reversible  along with a cell cycle arrest  ongoing differentiation and lower sensitivity to anti-cancer-drug-induced apoptosis. in contrast  the ra-induced iex-1 expression in kg1 cells (expressing plzf–rarα) persists over days  along with continued cell cycle progression and increased apoptotic sensitivity. furthermore  two functional ra-response elements in the iex-1 promoter were identified by gel shift and luciferase reporter gene assays. iex-1 might be a rather unique transcriptional target of the two x–rarα fusion receptors exhibiting distinct responsiveness to ras. following a different time course of direct transcriptional induction by pml–rarα and plzf–rarα in nb4 and kg1 cells  respectively  iex-1 expression may be involved in the modified actions of these receptors and the distinct phenotypes of apl cells.
3624,rapamycin treatment augments motor neuron degeneration in sod1(g93a) mouse model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.,aberrant protein misfolding may contribute to the pathogenesis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (als) but the detailed mechanisms are largely unknown. our previous study has shown that autophagy is altered in the mouse model of als. in the present study  we systematically investigated the correlation of the autophagic alteration with the motor neurons (mns) degeneration in the als mice. we have demonstrated that the autophagic protein marker lc3-ii is markedly and specifically increased in the spinal cord mns of the als mice. electron microscopy and immunochemistry studies have shown that autophagic vacuoles are significantly accumulated in the dystrophic axons of spinal cord mns of the als mice. all these changes in the als mice appear at the age of 90 d when the als mice display modest clinical symptoms; and they become prominent at the age of 120 d. the clinical symptoms are correlated with the progression of mns degeneration. moreover  we have found that p62/sqstm1 is accumulated progressively in the spinal cord  indicating that the possibility of impaired autophagic flux in the sod1(g93a) mice. furthermore  to our surprise  we have found that treatment with autophagy enhancer rapamycin accelerates the mns degeneration  shortens the life span of the als mice  and has no obvious effects on the accumulation of sod1 aggregates. in addition  we have demonstrated that rapamycin treatment in the als mice causes more severe mitochondrial impairment  higher bax levels and greater caspase-3 activation. these findings suggest that selective degeneration of mns is associated with the impairment of the autophagy pathway and that rapamycin treatment may exacerbate the pathological processing through apoptosis and other mechanisms in the als mice.
3626,endothelial-myofibroblast transition contributes to the early development of diabetic renal interstitial fibrosis in streptozotocin-induced diabetic mice.,diabetic nephropathy is the leading cause of chronic renal failure. myofibroblasts play a major role in the synthesis and secretion of extracellular matrix in diabetic renal fibrosis. increasing evidence suggests that endothelial cells may undergo endothelial-myofibroblast transition under physiological and pathophysiological circumstances. therefore  this study investigates whether endothelial-myofibroblast transition occurs and contributes to the development of diabetic renal interstitial fibrosis. diabetes was induced by administration of streptozotocin to tie2-cre;loxp-egfp mice  an endothelial lineage-traceable mouse line generated by crossbreeding b6.cg-tg(tek-cre)12f1v/j mice with b6.cg-tg(actb-bgeo/gfp)21lbe/j mice. the endothelial-myofibroblast transition was also studied in mmecs (a mouse pancreatic microvascular endothelial cell line) and primary cultures of cd31+/eyfp- (enhanced yellow fluorescent protein) endothelial cells isolated from adult normal alpha-smooth muscle actin promoter-driven-eyfp (alpha-sma/eyfp) mouse kidneys. confocal microscopy demonstrated that 10.4 +/- 4.2 and 23.5 +/- 7.4% of renal interstitial myofibroblasts (alpha-sma+) in 1- and 6-month streptozotocin-induced diabetic kidneys were of endothelial origin (egfp+/alpha-sma+ cells)  compared with just 0.2 +/- 0.1% of myofibroblasts in vehicle-treated tie2-cre;loxp-egfp mice (p < 0.01). confocal microscopy and real-time pcr showed that transforming growth factor (tgf)-beta1 induced de novo expression of alpha-sma and loss of expression of ve-cadherin and cd31 in mmecs and primary cultures of renal endothelial cells in a time- and dose-dependent fashion. these findings demonstrate that the endothelial-myofibroblast transition occurs and contributes to the early development and progression of diabetic renal interstitial fibrosis and suggest that the endothelial-myofibroblast transition may be a therapeutic target.
3628,alzheimer’s disease and ngf signaling,age-related degeneration of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons (bfcns) occurs early and contributes significantly to cognitive decline in alzheimer’s disease (ad). proper function and morphology of bfcns depends on the supply of nerve growth factor (ngf) from the cortex and the hippocampus. a large number of experiments have shown that decreased supply of ngf at the level of bfcn cell bodies leads to loss of neuronal markers and shrinkage  mimicking what is observed in ad. the delivery of sufficient amounts of ngf signal to bfcn cell bodies depends on the effective participation of several factors including sufficient synthesis and release of ngf  adequate synthesis and expression of ngf receptors by bfcns  normal signaling and retrograde transport of ngf-receptor complex  and finally effective induction of gene expression by ngf. in the past few years it has become clear that decreased amounts of ngf at the level of bfcn cell bodies is largely due to failed retrograde transport rather than decreased synthesis  binding or expression of ngf receptors in the bfcn terminals. we will discuss in vivo evidence supporting decreased retrograde transport of ngf in a mouse model with bfcn degeneration  and will attempt to match these findings with our studies in postmortem human ad brain. we will speculate about the possible mechanisms of failed ngf retrograde transport and its relationship to ad pathology.
3630,r93w mutation in orai1 causes impaired calcium influx in platelets.,the intracellular ca(2+) concentration of many nonexcitable cells is regulated by calcium store release and store-operated calcium entry (soce). in platelets  stim1 was recently identified as the main calcium sensor expressed in the endoplasmic reticulum. to evaluate the role of the soc channel moiety  orai1  in platelet soce  we generated mice expressing a mutated  inactive form of orai1 in blood cells only (orai1(r93w)). platelets expressing orai1(r93w) were characterized by markedly reduced soce and impaired agonist-induced increases in [ca(2+)](i). orai1(r93w) platelets showed reduced integrin activation and impaired degranulation when stimulated with low agonist concentrations under static conditions. this defect  however  did not significantly affect the ability of orai1(r93w) platelets to aggregate or to adhere to collagen under arterial flow conditions ex vivo. in contrast  these adherent orai1(r93w) platelets were defective in surface phosphatidylserine exposure  suggesting that orai1 is crucial for the platelets' procoagulant response rather than for other ca(2+)-dependent cellular responses.
3632,linkage with methadone treatment upon release from incarceration: a promising opportunity.,injection drug users (idus) are at increased risk for hiv  viral hepatitis  and tuberculosis  and making up more than a quarter of the incarcerated population in the united states. methadone maintenance treatment of opiate addiction is highly effective at reducing drug use  drug-related criminal activity  and risk of hiv transmission. recently released inmates are at particularly high risk for overdose and disease transmission. linkage to methadone treatment immediately upon release from incarceration is a promising opportunity to combat disease transmission  facilitate reentry into the community  and reduce recidivism.
3634,chronic helicobacter pylori infections induce gastric mutations in mice.,background & aims helicobacter pylori is an important etiologic factor in the development of gastric cancer. the aim of this study was to analyze the role of h. pylori infections in the induction of mutagenic events in gastric epithelial cells. the effect of a high-salt diet as a genotoxic risk factor was also investigated. methods big blue transgenic male mice (c57bl/6) were inoculated with h. pylori (strain ss1) or helicobacter felis (strain cs1) for 6 and 12 months. the frequency and spectrum of mutations at the stomach level were assessed. inflammatory host response and inducible nitric oxide synthase (inos) expression by reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction and immunohistochemistry analysis were also performed. results after 6 months  the gastric mutant frequency was 4-fold and 1.7-fold higher in mice infected with h. pylori and h. felis  respectively  than in uninfected mice. it was associated with a high frequency of transversions (at --> cg and gc --> ta) known to result from oxidative damages. the helicobacter-infected mice exhibited severe gastritis and a high level of inos messenger rna expression. hyperplasia developed 12 months after inoculation  and both the mutagenic effects and inos expression decreased in h. pylori- and h. felis-infected mice. no synergistic effects of a high-salt diet and helicobacter infection were observed regarding the frequency of gastric mutation. conclusions a direct gastric mutagenic effect due to h. pylori infection in the big blue transgenic mouse model has been shown 6 months after inoculation. this genotoxicity can be attributable to oxidative dna damage involving the inflammatory host response.
3636,a systemic granulomatous response to schistosoma mansoni eggs alters responsiveness of bone-marrow-derived macrophages to toll-like receptor agonists.,macrophages play a pivotal role in innate and acquired immune responses to schistosoma mansoni. classical (m1) or alternative (m2) activation states of these cells further delineate their roles in tissue damage through innate immunity or fibrotic remodeling  respectively. in the present study  we addressed the following question: does systemic th2-type cytokine polarization evoked by s. mansoni affect macrophage differentiation and activation? to this end  we analyzed bone marrow-derived macrophages from mice with s. mansoni egg-induced pulmonary granulomas and unchallenged (or naïve) mice to determine their activation state and their response to specific tlr agonists  including s. mansoni egg antigens. unlike naïve macrophages  macrophages from th2-polarized mice constitutively expressed significantly higher "found in inflammatory zone-1" (fizz1) and st2 (m2 markers) and significantly lower no synthase 2  ccl3  mip-2  tnf-alpha  and il-12 (m1 markers). also  compared with naïve macrophages  th2-polarized macrophages exhibited enhanced responses to the presence of specific tlr agonists  which consistently induced significantly higher levels of gene and protein levels for m2 and m1 markers in these cells. together  these data show that signals received by bone marrow precursors during s. mansoni egg-induced granuloma responses dynamically alter the development of macrophages and enhance the tlr responsiveness of these cells  which may ultimately have a significant effect on the pulmonary granulomatous response.
3638,tet and tdg mediate dna demethylation essential for mesenchymal-to-epithelial transition in somatic cell reprogramming.,tet-mediated dna oxidation is a recently identified mammalian epigenetic modification  and its functional role in cell-fate transitions remains poorly understood. here  we derive mouse embryonic fibroblasts (mefs) deleted in all three tet genes and examine their capacity for reprogramming into induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs). we show that tet-deficient mefs cannot be reprogrammed because of a block in the mesenchymal-to-epithelial transition (met) step. reprogramming of mefs deficient in tdg is similarly impaired. the block in reprogramming is caused at least in part by defective activation of key mirnas  which depends on oxidative demethylation promoted by tet and tdg. reintroduction of either the affected mirnas or catalytically active tet and tdg restores reprogramming in the knockout mefs. thus  oxidative demethylation to promote gene activation appears to be functionally required for reprogramming of fibroblasts to pluripotency. these findings provide mechanistic insight into the role of epigenetic barriers in cell-lineage conversion.
3640,activation of amp-activated protein kinase suppresses oxidized low-density lipoprotein-induced macrophage proliferation.,macrophage-derived foam cells play important roles in the progression of atherosclerosis. we reported previously that erk1/2-dependent granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor (gm-csf) expression  leading to p38 mapk/ akt signaling  is important for oxidized low density lipoprotein (ox-ldl)-induced macrophage proliferation. here  we investigated whether activation of amp-activated protein kinase (ampk) could suppress macrophage proliferation. ox-ldl-induced proliferation of mouse peritoneal macrophages was assessed by [(3)h]thymidine incorporation and cell counting assays. the proliferation was significantly inhibited by the ampk activator 5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide ribonucleoside (aicar) and restored by dominant-negative ampkalpha1  suggesting that ampk activation suppressed macrophage proliferation. aicar partially suppressed ox-ldl-induced erk1/2 phosphorylation and gm-csf expression  suggesting that another mechanism is also involved in the aicar-mediated suppression of macrophage proliferation. aicar suppressed gm-csf-induced macrophage proliferation without suppressing p38 mapk/akt signaling. gm-csf suppressed p53 phosphorylation and expression and induced rb phosphorylation. overexpression of p53 or p27(kip) suppressed gm-csf-induced macrophage proliferation. aicar induced cell cycle arrest  increased p53 phosphorylation and expression  and suppressed gm-csf-induced rb phosphorylation via ampk activation. moreover  aicar induced p21(cip) and p27(kip) expression via ampk activation  and small interfering rna (sirna) of p21(cip) and p27(kip) restored aicar-mediated suppression of macrophage proliferation. in conclusion  ampk activation suppressed ox-ldl-induced macrophage proliferation by suppressing gm-csf expression and inducing cell cycle arrest. these effects of ampk activation may represent therapeutic targets for atherosclerosis.
3642,ataxia  dementia  and hypogonadotropism caused by disordered ubiquitination.,background the combination of ataxia and hypogonadism was first described more than a century ago  but its genetic basis has remained elusive. methods we performed whole-exome sequencing in a patient with ataxia and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism  followed by targeted sequencing of candidate genes in similarly affected patients. neurologic and reproductive endocrine phenotypes were characterized in detail. the effects of sequence variants and the presence of an epistatic interaction were tested in a zebrafish model. results digenic homozygous mutations in rnf216 and otud4  which encode a ubiquitin e3 ligase and a deubiquitinase  respectively  were found in three affected siblings in a consanguineous family. additional screening identified compound heterozygous truncating mutations in rnf216 in an unrelated patient and single heterozygous deleterious mutations in four other patients. knockdown of rnf216 or otud4 in zebrafish embryos induced defects in the eye  optic tectum  and cerebellum; combinatorial suppression of both genes exacerbated these phenotypes  which were rescued by nonmutant  but not mutant  human rnf216 or otud4 messenger rna. all patients had progressive ataxia and dementia. neuronal loss was observed in cerebellar pathways and the hippocampus; surviving hippocampal neurons contained ubiquitin-immunoreactive intranuclear inclusions. defects were detected at the hypothalamic and pituitary levels of the reproductive endocrine axis. conclusions the syndrome of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism  ataxia  and dementia can be caused by inactivating mutations in rnf216 or by the combination of mutations in rnf216 and otud4. these findings link disordered ubiquitination to neurodegeneration and reproductive dysfunction and highlight the power of whole-exome sequencing in combination with functional studies to unveil genetic interactions that cause disease. (funded by the national institutes of health and others.).
3644,cyclic amp-dependent phosphorylation of thromboxane a(2) receptor-associated galpha(13).,although it is well established that camp inhibits platelet activation induced by all agonists  the thromboxane a(2) signal transduction pathway was found to be particularly sensitive to such inhibition. therefore  we examined whether camp-dependent kinase mediates phosphorylation of the thromboxane a(2) receptor-g-protein complex. it was found that camp induces protein kinase a-dependent [gamma-(32)p]atp labeling of solubilized membrane proteins in the region of galpha subunits  i.e. 38-45 kda. moreover  ligand affinity chromatography purification of thromboxane a(2) receptor-g-protein complexes from these membranes revealed that 38-45-kda phosphoproteins co-purify with thromboxane a(2) receptors. immunoprecipitation of the affinity column eluate with a galpha(13) antibody demonstrated that 8-br-camp increased phosphorylation of thromboxane a(2) receptor-associated galpha(13) by 87 +/- 27%. in separate experiments  immunopurification of galpha(13) on microtiter wells coated with a different galpha(13) antibody revealed that 8-br-camp increased galpha(13) phosphorylation by 53 +/- 19%. finally  treatment of (32)p-labeled whole platelets with prostacyclin resulted in a 90 +/- 14% increase in phosphorylated galpha(13) that was abolished by pretreatment with the adenylate cyclase inhibitor mdl-12. these results provide the first evidence that protein kinase a mediates phosphorylation of galpha(13) both in vitro and in vivo and provides a basis for the preferential inhibition of thromboxane a(2)-mediated signaling in platelets by camp.
3646,long-term use of aspirin and age-related macular degeneration.,context aspirin is widely used for relief of pain and for cardioprotective effects. its use is of concern to ophthalmologists when ocular surgery is being considered and also in the presence of age-related macular degeneration (amd). objective to examine the association of regular aspirin use with incidence of amd. design  setting  and participants the beaver dam eye study  a longitudinal population-based study of age-related eye diseases conducted in wisconsin. examinations were performed every 5 years over a 20-year period (1988-1990 through 2008-2010). study participants (n = 4926) were aged 43 to 86 years at the baseline examination. at subsequent examinations  participants were asked if they had regularly used aspirin at least twice a week for more than 3 months. main outcome measure incidence of early amd  late amd  and 2 subtypes of late amd (neovascular amd and pure geographic atrophy)  assessed in retinal photographs according to the wisconsin age-related maculopathy grading system. results the mean duration of follow-up was 14.8 years. there were 512 incident cases of early amd (of 6243 person-visits at risk) and 117 incident cases of late amd (of 8621 person-visits at risk) over the course of the study. regular aspirin use 10 years prior to retinal examination was associated with late amd (hazard ratio [hr]  1.63 [95% ci  1.01-2.63]; p = .05)  with estimated incidence of 1.76% (95% ci  1.17%-2.64%) in regular users and 1.03% (95% ci  0.70%-1.51%) in nonusers. for subtypes of late amd  regular aspirin use 10 years prior to retinal examination was significantly associated with neovascular amd (hr  2.20 [95% ci  1.20-4.15]; p = .01) but not pure geographic atrophy (hr  0.66 [95% ci  0.25-1.95]; p = .45). aspirin use 5 years (hr  0.86 [95% ci  0.71-1.05]; p = .13) or 10 years (hr  0.86 [95% ci  0.65-1.13]; p = .28) prior to retinal examination was not associated with incident early amd. conclusions among an adult cohort  aspirin use 5 years prior to observed incidence was not associated with incident early or late amd. however  regular aspirin use 10 years prior was associated with a small but statistically significant increase in the risk of incident late and neovascular amd.
3648,tunable signal processing through modular control of transcription factor translocation.,signaling pathways can induce different dynamics of transcription factor (tf) activation. we explored how tfs process signaling inputs to generate diverse dynamic responses. the budding yeast general stress-responsive tf msn2 acted as a tunable signal processor that could track  filter  or integrate signals in an input-dependent manner. this tunable signal processing appears to originate from dual regulation of both nuclear import and export by phosphorylation  as mutants with one form of regulation sustained only one signal-processing function. versatile signal processing by msn2 is crucial for generating distinct dynamic responses to different natural stresses. our findings reveal how complex signal-processing functions are integrated into a single molecule and provide a guide for the design of tfs with "programmable" signal-processing functions.
3650,a naturally occurring mouse model of x-linked congenital stationary night blindness.,purpose to describe a naturally occurring x-linked recessive mutation  no b-wave (nob)  that compromises visual transmission between photoreceptors and second-order neurons in mice. methods affected mice were identified by recording the light-evoked response of the retina  the electroretinogram (erg). to evaluate visual transmission  cortical potentials were recorded with a scalp electrode. the inheritance pattern for nob was defined by breeding nob animals with normal mice. retinal histologic analysis was performed by light microscopy. results although the photoreceptor-mediated erg component (a-wave) was normal in nob mice  the major response component reflecting postreceptoral neuronal activity (b-wave) was missing. visually-driven cortical activity was also abnormal in nob animals. at the light microscopic level  the nob retina appeared to have a normal cytoarchitecture. conclusions these findings suggest that the nob defect interferes with the transmission of visual information through the retina and that these mice are a useful model for the study of outer retinal synaptic function. in addition  this mutant mouse seems to provide an animal model for the complete form of congenital stationary night blindness  a human disorder in which patients have a profound loss of rod-mediated visual sensitivity.
3652,chronic daily headache. a clinical and psychological profile before and after treatment.,to assess the clinical and personality characteristics of patients with chronic daily headache before and after treatment  20 patients were examined and the minnesota multiphasic personality inventory (mmpi [italian 356-item abbreviated version]) and the strait and trait anxiety index 1 2 (stai) administered. there were two groups: group 1 (n = 6)  with a "conversion v" configuration (with elevation of hypochondria and hysteria scales  the depression scale being somewhat lower); and group 2 (n = 13) with elevation of depression and of other mmpi scales. one patient had no scale elevation. stai 1 2 scores were high in both groups. several psychosomatic symptoms and some migraine features were present in almost all patients. occurrence  severity  and duration of headache were recorded regularly and the mmpi and the stai administered again after treatment. improvement of headaches and a decrease of several mmpi and stai 2 scores were observed. however  12 of 20 patients showed a conversion v configuration after treatment. it is concluded that chronic daily headache was transformed migraine in most cases and was accompanied by anxiety levels in all patients and hysteric traits in some. with time  these patients may develop a depressive disorder. after treatment  hysterical traits are still present at a lower level in those showing these traits before treatment and may be unmasked in those that had depression.
3654,role of the novel th17 cytokine il-17f in inflammatory bowel disease (ibd): upregulated colonic il-17f expression in active crohn's disease and analysis of the il17f p.his161arg polymorphism in ibd.,background interleukin (il)-17f  produced in il-23r-expressing th17 cells  is a novel member of the il-17 cytokine family. given the association of il23r with inflammatory bowel disease (ibd)  we characterized the role of il-17f in ibd including its intestinal gene expression and the effect of the il17f p. his161arg polymorphism on disease susceptibility and phenotype of crohn's disease (cd) and ulcerative colitis (uc). in addition  we analyzed the il17f p. his161arg polymorphism for potential epistasis with il23r and nod2/card15 variants. methods intestinal il-17f mrna expression was measured by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (pcr). genomic dna from 1682 individuals (cd: n = 499; uc: n = 216; controls: n = 967) was analyzed for the presence of the il17f p. his161arg polymorphism  the 3 nod2 variants  p. arg702trp  p. gly908arg  and p. leu1007fsx1008  and 10 cd-associated il23r variants. results intestinal il-17f mrna expression was 4.4-fold increased in inflamed colonic lesions compared to uninflamed biopsies in cd (p = 0.016) but not in uc. however  the mean intestinal il-17f mrna expression was higher in uc than in cd (p < 0.0001). the il17f p. his161arg substitution was observed with similar frequencies in ibd patients and controls and was not associated with a certain disease phenotype  but weakly associated with a low body mass index (bmi; p = 0.009) and an earlier age of disease onset (p = 0.039) in uc. there was no evidence for epistasis between the il17f p. his161arg polymorphism and ibd-associated single nucleotide polymorphisms within the il23r gene. conclusions intestinal il17f gene expression is increased in active cd. the il17f p. his161arg polymorphism is not associated with ibd susceptibility and has no epistatic interaction with cd-associated il23r variants.
3656,rapid helper t-cell recovery above 200 × 106/l at 3 months correlates to successful transplant outcomes after allogeneic stem cell transplantation,the current study evaluates the role of quantitative measurement of peripheral lymphocyte subsets  especially cd4+ helper t-cell recovery  in predicting transplant outcomes including overall survival (os) and non-relapse mortality (nrm) after allogeneic stem cell transplantation. a total of 69 allogeneic recipients were included with following diagnoses: acute myeloid leukemia 42  acute lymphoblastic leukemia 5  chronic myeloid leukemia 15  non-hodgkin's lymphoma 5 and high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome 2. the peripheral lymphocyte subset counts (cd3+ t cells  cd3+4+ helper t cells  cd3+8+ cytotoxic t cells  cd19+ b cells  and cd56+ natural killer cells) were measured at 3  6 and 12 months. the cd4+ helper t-cell reconstitution at 3 months was strongly correlated with os (p<0.0001)  nrm (p=0.0007)  and opportunistic infections (p=0.0108) at the cutoff value of 200 × 106/l cd4+ helper t cells. rapid cd4+ helper t-cell recovery was also associated with a higher cd4+ helper t-cell transplant dose (p=0.006) and donor type (p<0.001). an early cd4+ helper t-cell recovery at 3 months correlated with a subsequent faster helper t-cell recovery until 12 months  yet not with b-cell recovery. in a multivariate analysis  rapid recovery of cd4+ helper t cells at 3 months was a favorable prognostic factor together with higher cd34+ cell transplant dose in terms of os (p=0.001) and nrm (p=0.005).
3658,promiscuous gene expression and the developmental dynamics of medullary thymic epithelial cells.,thymic epithelial cells (tec) form the structural and functional microenvironment necessary for the establishment and quality control of the t cell repertoire. in addition  they provide an ectopic source of numerous tissue-restricted antigens (tra)  a feature called promiscuous gene expression (pge). how the regulation of pge is related to the cell biology of tec subset(s)  e.g. their turnover and developmental interrelationship is still poorly understood. the observation that pge is foremost a property of phenotypically and functionally mature medullary tec (mtec) implies that the full implementation of pge is contingent on mtec differentiation. here  we show that the emergence of tec subsets and pge is tightly correlated during ontogeny and we provide evidence that mature cd80pos mtec develop from an immature cd80neg subset. this differentiation step proceeds continuously in the postnatal thymus. while mature mtec turnover in 2 to 3 weeks  immature mtec encompass a smaller cycling and a larger non-cycling pool. the latter might serve as a reservoir of committed precursors  which sustain this renewal process. our data document that mtec represent a highly dynamic cell population  and they imply that the availability and display of tra in the thymus undergoes a perpetual temporal and spatial reorganization.
3660,radioactive labeling of mitochondrial translation products in cultured cells.,the mammalian mitochondrial genome contains 37 genes  13 of which encode polypeptide subunits in the enzyme complexes of the oxidative phosphorylation system. the other genes encode the rrnas and trnas necessary for their translation. the mitochondrial translation machinery is located in the mitochondrial matrix  and is exclusively dedicated to the synthesis of these 13 enzyme subunits. mitochondrial disease in humans is often associated with defects in mitochondrial translation. this can manifest as a global decrease in the rate of mitochondrial protein synthesis  a decrease in the synthesis of specific polypeptides  the synthesis of abnormal polypeptides  or in altered stability of specific translation products. all of these changes in the normal pattern of mitochondrial translation can be assessed by a straightforward technique that takes advantage of the insensitivity of the mitochondrial translation machinery to antibiotics that completely inhibit cytoplasmic translation. thus  specific radioactive labeling of the mitochondrial translation products can be achieved in cultured cells  and the results can be visualized on gradient gels. the analysis of mitochondrial translation in cells cultured from patient biopsies is useful in the study of disease-causing mutations in both the mitochondrial and the nuclear genomes.
3662,a comparison of pharmacological (amitriptyline hcl) and nonpharmacological (cognitive-behavioral) therapies for chronic tension headaches.,forty-one recurrent tension headache sufferers were randomly assigned to either cognitive-behavioral therapy (administered in a primarily home-based treatment protocol) or to amitriptyline therapy (with dosage individualized at 25  50  or 75 mg/day). cognitive-behavioral therapy and amitriptyline each yielded clinically significant improvements in headache activity  both when improvement was assessed with patient daily recordings (56% and 27% reduction in headache index  respectively)  and when improvement was assessed with neurologist ratings of clinical improvement (94% and 69% of patients rated at least moderately improved  respectively). in instances where differences in treatment effectiveness were observed (headache index  somatic complaints  perceptions of control of headache activity)  cognitive-behavioral therapy yielded somewhat more positive outcomes than did amitriptyline. neither treatment  however  eliminated headache problems.
3664,clinical benefits and considerations of bisphosphonate treatment in metastatic bone disease.,patients with metastatic bone disease are at risk for developing skeletal-related events that can negatively influence quality of life  contributing to loss of autonomy and functional capabilities. bisphosphonates have become an important component in the treatment of patients with bone metastases as they delay the onset and reduce the risk of skeletal-related events and also palliate or control bone pain in multiple cancer types  thus preserving quality of life. zoledronic acid has proven efficacy and safety in patients with bone lesions from breast cancer  prostate cancer  lung cancer  and other solid tumors  as well as in patients with multiple myeloma. current data suggest that early treatment with zoledronic acid (before the onset of bone pain) may provide additional clinical benefits and also positive effects on survival in subsets of patients who have elevated levels of n-telopeptide of type i collagen (ntx)  a biochemical marker of bone resorption. studies have shown that in patients with breast cancer  prostate cancer  lung cancer  or other solid tumors  normalization of elevated levels of ntx was observed in the majority of patients who received zoledronic acid. furthermore  normalization of ntx values correlated with extended survival.
3666,control of synapse development and plasticity by rho gtpase regulatory proteins,synapses are specialized cell-cell contacts that mediate communication between neurons. most excitatory synapses in the brain are housed on dendritic spines  small actin-rich protrusions extending from dendrites. during development and in response to environmental stimuli  spines undergo marked changes in shape and number thought to underlie processes like learning and memory. improper spine development  in contrast  likely impedes information processing in the brain  since spine abnormalities are associated with numerous brain disorders. elucidating the mechanisms that regulate the formation and plasticity of spines and their resident synapses is therefore crucial to our understanding of cognition and disease. rho-family gtpases  key regulators of the actin cytoskeleton  play essential roles in orchestrating the development and remodeling of spines and synapses. precise spatio-temporal regulation of rho gtpase activity is critical for their function  since aberrant rho gtpase signaling can cause spine and synapse defects as well as cognitive impairments. rho gtpases are activated by guanine nucleotide exchange factors (gefs) and inhibited by gtpase-activating proteins (gaps). we propose that rho-family gefs and gaps provide the spatiotemporal regulation and signaling specificity necessary for proper rho gtpase function based on the following features they possess: (i) existence of multiple gefs and gaps per rho gtpase  (ii) developmentally regulated expression  (iii) discrete localization  (iv) ability to bind to and organize specific signaling networks  and (v) tightly regulated activity  perhaps involving gef/gap interactions. recent studies describe several rho-family gefs and gaps that uniquely contribute to spinogenesis and synaptogenesis. here  we highlight several of these proteins and discuss how they occupy distinct biochemical niches critical for synaptic development.
3668,apolipoprotein e4 as a predictor of outcomes in pediatric mild traumatic brain injury.,the epsilon4 allele of the apolipoprotein e (apoe) gene has been linked to negative outcomes among adults with traumatic brain injury (tbi) across the spectrum of severity  with preliminary evidence suggesting a similar pattern among children. this study investigated the relationship of the apoe epsilon4 allele to outcomes in children with mild tbi. participants in this prospective  longitudinal study included 99 children with mild tbi between the ages of 8 and 15 recruited from consecutive admissions to emergency departments at two large children's hospitals. outcomes were assessed acutely in the emergency department and at follow-ups at 2 weeks  3 months  and 12 months post-injury. among the 99 participants  28 had at least one epsilon4 allele. children with and without an epsilon4 allele did not differ demographically. children with an epsilon4 allele were significantly more likely than those without an epsilon4 allele to have a glasgow coma scale score of less than 15  but the groups did not differ on any other measures of injury severity. those with an epsilon4 allele exhibited better performance than children without an epsilon4 allele on a test of constructional skill  but the groups did not differ on any other neuropsychological tests. children with and without an epsilon4 allele also did not differ on measures of post-concussive symptoms. overall  the findings suggest that the apoe epsilon4 allele is not consistently related to the outcomes of mild tbi in children.
3670,increased resting energy expenditure and weight loss are related to a systemic inflammatory response in lung cancer patients.,purpose to determine whether an increased resting energy expenditure (ree) and weight loss in lung cancer patients are related to a systemic inflammatory response. materials and methods ree was measured by indirect calorimetry using a ventilated hood system. soluble tumor necrosis factor receptor 55 (stnf-r55) and stnf-r75  soluble intercellular adhesion molecule (sicam)-1  soluble e (se)-selectin  lipopolysaccharide (lps)-binding protein (lbp)  interleukin (il)-6  and tnf-alpha were measured using sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (elisa)  and c-reactive protein (crp) was measured by turbidimetry. a cross-sectional study was performed to compare inflammatory mediators between hypermetabolic (ree/harris benedict [hb] equation > or = 110%) versus normometabolic (ree/hb < 110%) patients and between patients who lost weight (more than 10% loss of preillness weight) versus those whose weight remained stable. results eighty-seven patients with primary non-small-cell lung cancer were consecutively entered onto the study. mean ree expressed as a percentage of the hb reference values was 118% +/- 12%; 67 patients were considered hypermetabolic. twenty-six patients had a substantial loss of more than 10% of their preillness weight. hypermetabolic patients were found to have significantly increased levels of stnf-r55  se-selectin  lbp  and crp compared with normometabolic patients. weight loss was related with increased levels of the stnf-rs  sicam-1  il-6  lbp  and crp. conclusion hypermetabolism and weight loss are related to the presence of a systemic inflammatory response as reflected by enhanced levels of inflammatory mediators and acute phase proteins in patients with primary non-small-cell lung cancer.
3672,impaired awareness of hypoglycaemia: a review.,impaired awareness of hypoglycaemia (iah) is an acquired complication of insulin therapy  which affects people with type 1 and insulin-treated type 2 diabetes mellitus  whereby the ability to perceive the onset of hypoglycaemia becomes diminished or absent. deficiencies of the counter-regulatory hormonal responses to hypoglycaemia usually co-exist. the development of iah and counter-regulatory failure greatly increases the risk of severe hypoglycaemia. scoring systems have been developed that can be used in the clinical setting and assist with identification of this group of individuals at risk of severe hypoglycaemia. the mainstay of treatment of iah is the scrupulous avoidance of hypoglycaemia.
3674,molecular elements of low-oxygen signaling in plants.,oxygen and its limitation are emerging as a crucial factor in plant fitness  growth and development. recent studies revealed the mechanisms by which oxygen is perceived by plant cells. this sensory system partly relies on an oxygen-mediated branch of the n-end rule pathway for protein degradation acting on a specific clade of ethylene responsive transcription factors (erf-vii). a complementary regulative step is provided by aerobic sequestration of an erf-vii protein at the plasma membrane and its timely release when hypoxia occurs. complete absence of oxygen triggers the transient accumulation of reactive hydrogen peroxide and induces an additional set of reactive oxygen species-related genes involved in both signaling and attenuation of oxidative stress. moreover  temporary hypoxic environments that are built up as consequence of dense cell packing have been demonstrated to trigger cell-fate determination in maize anthers. similarly  limited oxygen delivery in bulky fruit or tuber tissues growing in aerobic conditions were shown to stimulate anaerobic-like responses. these advances in low-oxygen signaling and its effect on cell development highlight the importance of taking hypoxia into account in agronomical practices as well as in breeding programs.
3676,traumatic encephalopathy: review and provisional research diagnostic criteria.,objectives to determine the frequency of neurobehavioral signs and symptoms reported in every published case of traumatic encephalopathy with a view toward the development of clinical diagnostic criteria with predictive validity. introduction cases of persistent or progressive neurological or neurobehavioral change following exposure to one or more head injuries have been reported since 1928. this condition is often referred to as traumatic encephalopathy (te). to date  however  no diagnostic criteria have been advanced or accepted for the clinical diagnosis of te. provisional research diagnostic criteria are required not only for meaningful diagnosis but also to facilitate research to determine the epidemiology  etiology  course  prognosis  imaging and biomarkers  neuropathological features and potentially effective treatments of te. methods all 436 published cases of te in all languages were reviewed. all symptoms and signs reported in these cases were classified and enumerated. results ninety-seven cases met inclusion criteria based on sufficient documentation of the history and neurobehavioral examination. provisional research diagnostic criteria for clinically probable and clinically possible te were developed based on the most frequently reported clinical features. conclusion the provisional diagnostic criteria for te presented here are the first published criteria for this condition based upon a systematic analysis of its clinical characteristics. this is the first a step toward scientifically derived consensus criteria  which are essential to accelerate progress in the investigation of this important condition.
3678,role of the vascular endothelial growth factor pathway in tumor growth and angiogenesis.,new blood vessel formation (angiogenesis) is a fundamental event in the process of tumor growth and metastatic dissemination. hence  the molecular basis of tumor angiogenesis has been of keen interest in the field of cancer research. the vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) pathway is well established as one of the key regulators of this process. the vegf/vegf-receptor axis is composed of multiple ligands and receptors with overlapping and distinct ligand-receptor binding specificities  cell-type expression  and function. activation of the vegf-receptor pathway triggers a network of signaling processes that promote endothelial cell growth  migration  and survival from pre-existing vasculature. in addition  vegf mediates vessel permeability  and has been associated with malignant effusions. more recently  an important role for vegf has emerged in mobilization of endothelial progenitor cells from the bone marrow to distant sites of neovascularization. the well-established role of vegf in promoting tumor angiogenesis and the pathogenesis of human cancers has led to the rational design and development of agents that selectively target this pathway. studies with various anti-vegf/vegf-receptor therapies have shown that these agents can potently inhibit angiogenesis and tumor growth in preclinical models. recently  an anti-vegf antibody (bevacizumab)  when used in combination with chemotherapy  was shown to significantly improve survival and response rates in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer and thus  validate vegf pathway inhibitors as an important new treatment modality in cancer therapy.
3680,hypoxia in relation to vasculature and proliferation in liver metastases in patients with colorectal cancer.,purpose to investigate hypoxia measured by pimonidazole binding  glucose transporter 1 (glut1) and carbonic anhydrase ix (ca-ix) expression  proliferation  and vascularity in liver metastases of colorectal cancer and to compare glut1 and ca-ix expression in corresponding primary tumors. methods and materials twenty-five patients with liver metastases of colorectal cancer  planned for metastasectomy  were included. the hypoxia marker pimonidazole and proliferation marker iododeoxyuridine were administered before surgery. after immunofluorescent staining of the frozen metastases  pimonidazole binding  vascularity  and proliferation were analyzed quantitatively. thirteen paraffin-embedded primary tumors were stained immunohistochemically for glut1 and ca-ix expression  which was analyzed semiquantitatively in primary tumors and corresponding liver metastases. results in liver metastases  pimonidazole binding showed a pattern consistent with diffusion-limited hypoxia. the mean pimonidazole-positive fraction was 0.146; the mean distance from vessels to pimonidazole-positive areas was 80 microm. when expressed  often co-localization was observed between pimonidazole binding and glut1 or ca-ix expression  but microregional areas of mismatch were also observed. no correlation between the level of pimonidazole binding and glut1 or ca-ix expression was observed. in some patients  a large fraction (up to 30%) of proliferating cells was present in pimonidazole-stained areas. expression of ca-ix in primary tumors and metastases showed a significant correlation  which was absent for glut1 expression. conclusions compared with other tumor types  liver metastases of colorectal cancer contain large amounts of hypoxic cells. the lack of correlation with pimonidazole binding brings into question the value of glut1 and ca-ix as endogenous markers of hypoxia.
3682,phagocytosis and deposition of vascular beta-amyloid in rat brains injected with alzheimer beta-amyloid.,the presence of extracellular deposits of beta-amyloid protein in the brain is a hallmark of alzheimer's disease (ad). in an effort to determine the effect of amyloid in an animal model  the authors injected amyloid cores isolated from ad brains into the cortex and hippocampus of rats. lipofuscin  a major contaminant of the plaque core preparation  was injected on the contralateral side and used as a control to induce an analogous phagocytic cell response. rats were sacrificed 2 days  7 days  and 1 month after injection and amyloid located by four histochemical techniques. amyloid and lipofuscin move from the site of injection into otherwise undamaged neuropil  persist for at least 1 month and are both associated with increases in glial fibrillary acidic protein and microglia (ox-42) staining. by 1 week  many of the amyloid cores are ingested by phagocytes. some of the beta-amyloid-containing phagocytes migrate to the vessels and to the ventricles  and by 1 month  a significant amount of the amyloid is directly associated with the vessels. this suggests that phagocytic cells can internalize exogenous amyloid and attempt to clear it from the central nervous system (cns). therefore  the observed distribution of amyloid is not necessarily the initial site of deposition.
3684,interleukin 6 plays a key role in the development of antigen-induced arthritis.,to investigate the direct role of interleukin (il) 6 in the development of rheumatoid arthritis  il-6-deficient (il-6 -/-) mice were backcrossed for eight generations into c57bl/6 mice  a strain of mice with a genetic background of susceptibility for antigen-induced arthritis (aia). both histological and immunological comparisons were made between il-6-deficient (il-6 -/-) mice and wild-type (il-6 +/+) littermates after the induction of aia. although all il-6 +/+ mice developed severe arthritis  only mild arthritis was observed in il-6 -/- mice. safranin o staining demonstrated that articular cartilage was well preserved in il-6 -/- mice  whereas it was destroyed completely in il-6 +/+ mice. in addition  comparable mrna expression for both il-1beta and tumor necrosis factor alpha  but not for il-6  was detected in the inflamed joints of il-6 -/- mice  suggesting that il-6 may play a more crucial role in cartilage destruction than either il-1beta or tumor necrosis factor alpha. in immunological comparisons  both antigen-specific in vitro proliferative response in lymph node cells and in vivo antibody production were elicited in il-6 -/- mice  but they were reduced to less than half of that found in il-6 +/+ mice. lymph node cells of il-6 -/- mice produced many more th2 cytokines than did il-6 +/+ mice with either antigen-specific or nonspecific stimulation in in vitro culture. taken together  these results indicate that il-6 may play a key role in the development of aia at the inductive as well as the effector phase  and the blockade of il-6 is possibly beneficial in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis.
3686,comparative gene expression profiling of in vitro differentiated megakaryocytes and erythroblasts identifies novel activatory and inhibitory platelet membrane proteins.,to identify previously unknown platelet receptors we compared the transcriptomes of in vitro differentiated megakaryocytes (mks) and erythroblasts (ebs). rna was obtained from purified  biologically paired mk and eb cultures and compared using cdna microarrays. bioinformatical analysis of mk-up-regulated genes identified 151 transcripts encoding transmembrane domain-containing proteins. although many of these were known platelet genes  a number of previously unidentified or poorly characterized transcripts were also detected. many of these transcripts  including g6b  g6f  lrrc32  lat2  and the g protein-coupled receptor sucnr1  encode proteins with structural features or functions that suggest they may be involved in the modulation of platelet function. immunoblotting on platelets confirmed the presence of the encoded proteins  and flow cytometric analysis confirmed the expression of g6b  g6f  and lrrc32 on the surface of platelets. through comparative analysis of expression in platelets and other blood cells we demonstrated that g6b  g6f  and lrrc32 are restricted to the platelet lineage  whereas lat2 and sucnr1 were also detected in other blood cells. the identification of the succinate receptor sucnr1 in platelets is of particular interest  because physiologically relevant concentrations of succinate were shown to potentiate the effect of low doses of a variety of platelet agonists.
3688,the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor resistance mutation i132m confers hypersensitivity to nucleoside analogs.,we previously identified a rare mutation in human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (hiv-1) reverse transcriptase (rt)  i132m  which confers high-level resistance to the nonnucleoside rt inhibitors (nnrtis) nevirapine and delavirdine. in this study  we have further characterized the role of this mutation in viral replication capacity and in resistance to other rt inhibitors. surprisingly  our data show that i132m confers marked hypersusceptibility to the nucleoside analogs lamivudine (3tc) and tenofovir at both the virus and enzyme levels. subunit-selective mutagenesis studies revealed that the mutation in the p51 subunit of rt was responsible for the increased sensitivity to the drugs  and transient kinetic analyses showed that this hypersusceptibility was due to i132m decreasing the enzyme's affinity for the natural dctp substrate but increasing its affinity for 3tc-triphosphate. furthermore  the replication capacity of hiv-1 containing i132m is severely impaired. this decrease in viral replication capacity could be partially or completely compensated for by the a62v or l214i mutation  respectively. taken together  these results help to explain the infrequent selection of i132m in patients for whom nnrti regimens are failing and furthermore demonstrate that a single mutation outside of the polymerase active site and inside of the p51 subunit of rt can significantly influence nucleotide selectivity.
3690,markers of myocardial damage and inflammation in relation to long-term mortality in unstable coronary artery disease. frisc study group. fragmin during instability in coronary artery disease.,background in patients with unstable coronary artery disease  there is a relation between the short-term risk of death and blood levels of troponin t (a marker of myocardial damage) and c-reactive protein and fibrinogen (markers of inflammation). using information obtained during an extension of the follow-up period in the fragmin during instability in coronary artery disease trial  we evaluated the usefulness of troponin t  c-reactive protein  and fibrinogen levels and other indicators of risk as predictors of the long-term risk of death from cardiac causes. methods levels of c-reactive protein and fibrinogen at enrollment and the maximal level of troponin t during the first 24 hours after enrollment were analyzed in 917 patients included in a clinical trial of low-molecular-weight heparin in unstable coronary artery disease. the patients were followed for a mean of 37.0 months (range  1.6 to 50.6). results during follow-up  1.2 percent of the 173 patients with maximal blood troponin t levels of less than 0.06 microg per liter died of cardiac causes  as compared with 8.7 percent of the 367 patients with levels of 0.06 to 0.59 microg per liter and 15.4 percent of the 377 patients with levels of at least 0.60 microg per liter (p=0.007 and p=0.001  respectively). the rates of death from cardiac causes were 5.7 percent among the 314 patients with blood c-reactive protein levels of less than 2 mg per liter  7.8 percent among the 294 with levels of 2 to 10 mg per liter  and 16.5 percent among the 309 with levels of more than 10 mg per liter (p=0.29 and p=0.001  respectively). the rates of death from cardiac causes were 5.4 percent among the 314 patients with blood fibrinogen levels of less than 3.4 g per liter  12.0 percent among the 300 with levels of 3.4 to 3.9 g per liter  and 12.9 percent among the 303 with levels of at least 4.0 g per liter (p=0.004 and p=0.69  respectively). in a multivariate analysis  levels of troponin t and c-reactive protein were independent predictors of the risk of death from cardiac causes. conclusions in unstable coronary artery disease  elevated levels of troponin t and c-reactive protein are strongly related to the long-term risk of death from cardiac causes. these markers are independent risk factors  and their effects are additive with respect to each other and other clinical indicators of risk.
3692,human artificial chromosomes with alpha satellite-based de novo centromeres show increased frequency of nondisjunction and anaphase lag.,human artificial chromosomes have been used to model requirements for human chromosome segregation and to explore the nature of sequences competent for centromere function. normal human centromeres require specialized chromatin that consists of alpha satellite dna complexed with epigenetically modified histones and centromere-specific proteins. while several types of alpha satellite dna have been used to assemble de novo centromeres in artificial chromosome assays  the extent to which they fully recapitulate normal centromere function has not been explored. here  we have used two kinds of alpha satellite dna  dxz1 (from the x chromosome) and d17z1 (from chromosome 17)  to generate human artificial chromosomes. although artificial chromosomes are mitotically stable over many months in culture  when we examined their segregation in individual cell divisions using an anaphase assay  artificial chromosomes exhibited more segregation errors than natural human chromosomes (p < 0.001). naturally occurring  but abnormal small ring chromosomes derived from chromosome 17 and the x chromosome also missegregate more than normal chromosomes  implicating overall chromosome size and/or structure in the fidelity of chromosome segregation. as different artificial chromosomes missegregate over a fivefold range  the data suggest that variable centromeric dna content and/or epigenetic assembly can influence the mitotic behavior of artificial chromosomes.
3694,costs and cost-effectiveness of alternative tuberculosis management strategies in south africa--implications for policy.,objective to conduct an economic analysis of the hlabisa community-based directly observed therapy management strategy for tuberculosis and to project costs of three alternative strategies. setting hlabisa health district  kwazulu-natal  south africa. methods an economic analysis comparing the current tuberculosis management strategy in hlabisa with three alternative strategies (the hlabisa strategy prior to 1991 based on hospitalisation  the national strategy and sanatorium care) in terms of costs to both health service and patient and of cost-effectiveness. results the current hlabisa strategy was the most cost-effective (r3799 per patient cured)  compared with r98307 for the strategy used prior to 1991  r9940 for the national strategy  and r11145 for sanatorium care. between 71% and 88% of treatment costs lie with the health service  and hospitalisation (r119 per day) is the most expensive item. prolonged hospitalisation is extremely expensive  but community care is cheaper (community clinic visit  r28; community health worker visit  r7). the total cost of supervising a patient in the community under the current hlabisa strategy was r503  equivalent to 4.2 days in hospital. drug costs (r157) are equivalent to just 1.3 days in hospital. conclusion cost to both health service and patient can be substantially reduced by using community-based directly observed therapy for tuberculosis  a strategy that is cheap and cost-effective in hlabisa. these findings have important national implications  supporting the goals of the new tuberculosis control programme.
3696,notch activation promotes cell proliferation and the formation of neural stem cell-like colonies in human glioma cells,since notch signaling plays a critical role in stem cells and oncogenesis  we hypothesized that notch signaling might play roles in cancer stem cells and cancer cells with a stem cell phenotype. in this study  we accessed potential functions of the notch pathway in the formation of cancer stem cells using human glioma. using rt-pcr  we found that most human astrogliomas of different grades expressed moderate to high level of notch receptors and ligands. mrna of hes5 but not hes1  both of which are major downstream molecules of the notch pathway  was also detected. in human glioma cell lines bt325  u251  shg-44  and u87  mrna encoding different types of notch receptors were detected  but active form of notch1 (nic) was only detected in shg-44 and u87 by western blot. interestingly  proliferation of these two glioma cell lines appeared faster than that of the other two lines in which nic was not detected. we have over-expressed nic of notch1 in shg-44 cells by constitutive transfection to evaluate the effects of notch signaling on glioma cells. our results showed that over-expression of nic in shg-44 cells promoted the growth and the colony-forming activity of shg-44 cells. interestingly  over-expression of nic increased the formation neurosphere-like colonies in the presence of growth factors. these colonies expressed nestin  and could be induced to cells expressing neuron-  astrocyte-  or oligodendrocyte-specific markers  consistent with phenotypes of neural stem cells. these data suggest that notch signaling promote the formation of cancer stem cell-like cells in human glioma.
3698,the transcriptional responses of mycobacterium tuberculosis to inhibitors of metabolism: novel insights into drug mechanisms of action.,the differential transcriptional response of mycobacterium tuberculosis to drugs and growth-inhibitory conditions was monitored to generate a data set of 430 microarray profiles. unbiased grouping of these profiles independently clustered agents of known mechanism of action accurately and was successful at predicting the mechanism of action of several unknown agents. these predictions were validated biochemically for two agents of previously uncategorized mechanism  pyridoacridones and phenothiazines. analysis of this data set further revealed 150 underlying clusters of coordinately regulated genes offering the first glimpse at the full metabolic potential of this organism. a signature subset of these gene clusters was sufficient to classify all known agents as to mechanism of action. transcriptional profiling of both crude and purified natural products can provide critical information on both mechanism and detoxification prior to purification that can be used to guide the drug discovery process. thus  the transcriptional profile generated by a crude marine natural product recapitulated the mechanistic prediction from the pure active component. the underlying gene clusters further provide fundamental insights into the metabolic response of bacteria to drug-induced stress and provide a rational basis for the selection of critical metabolic targets for screening for new agents with improved activity against this important human pathogen.
3700,urban malaria and anaemia in children: a cross-sectional survey in two cities of ghana.,objective to describe the epidemiology of urban malaria  an emerging problem in sub-saharan africa. method cross-sectional surveys of communities in accra and kumasi  ghana  determining risk factors for malaria infection and anaemia in children aged 6-60 months. results malaria prevalence rates ranged from 2% to 33% between urban communities. 47.1% of children were anaemic (hb<11.0 g/dl). factors associated with malaria prevalence were low socio-economic status  age and anaemia. the attributable risks of anaemia and severe anaemia (hb<8.0 g/dl) caused by malaria were 5% and 23% respectively. conclusions malaria in urban areas displayed a heterogeneity and complexity that differed from the rural environment  which has important implications for malaria control. marked intra-city variation indicates the importance of targeting specific areas or districts. the most vulnerable group  the urban poor  should be prioritized when designing control measures. this would require careful assessment of the malaria risk pattern in any city to guide an integrated control program.
3702,developmental gene networks: a triathlon on the course to t cell identity,cells acquire their ultimate identities by activating combinations of transcription factors that initiate and sustain expression of the appropriate cell type-specific genes. t cell development depends on the progression of progenitor cells through three major phases  each of which is associated with distinct transcription factor ensembles that control the recruitment of these cells to the thymus  their proliferation  lineage commitment and responsiveness to t cell receptor signals  all before the allocation of cells to particular effector programmes. all three phases are essential for proper t cell development  as are the mechanisms that determine the boundaries between each phase. cells that fail to shut off one set of regulators before the next gene network phase is activated are predisposed to leukaemic transformation.
3704,inappropriate inhaler use: assessment of use and patient preference of seven inhalation devices. edici.,inefficient inhaler technique is a common problem resulting in poor drug delivery  decreased disease control and increased inhaler use. the aim of this study was to assess patients' use of different inhaler devices and to ascertain whether patient preference is indicative of ease of use and whether current inhaler use has any influence on either technique or preference. we also wished to define the most appropriate method of selecting an inhaler for a patient  taking into account observed technique and device cost. one hundred patients received instruction  in randomized order  in the use of seven different inhaler devices. after instruction they were graded (using predetermined criteria) in their inhaler technique. after assessment patients were asked which three inhalers they most preferred and which  if any  they currently used. technique was best using the breath-actuated inhalers; the easi-breathe and autohaler  with 91% seen to have good technique. the pressurized metered dose inhaler (pmdi) fared poorly  in last position with only 79% of patients showing good technique  despite being the most commonly prescribed. the easi-breathe was by far the most popular device with the patients. the autohaler came in second position closely followed by the clickhaler and accuhaler. the majority of patients (55%) currently used the pmdi but the pmdi did not score highly for preference or achieve better grades than the other devices. only 79% of patients tested could use the pmdi effectively even after expert instruction yet it continues to be commonly prescribed. this has important repercussions for drug delivery and hence disease control. prescribing a patient's preferred device increases cost but can improve efficiency and therefore be cost effective in the long term. using an inexpensive device (pmdi) when technique is good and the patient's preferred inhaler device when not is one way to optimize delivery and may even reduce cost.
3706,cancer treatment and survivorship statistics  2014.,the number of cancer survivors continues to increase due to the aging and growth of the population and improvements in early detection and treatment. in order for the public health community to better serve these survivors  the american cancer society and the national cancer institute collaborated to estimate the number of current and future cancer survivors using data from the surveillance  epidemiology  and end results (seer) program registries. in addition  current treatment patterns for the most common cancer types are described based on information in the national cancer data base and the seer and seer-medicare linked databases; treatment-related side effects are also briefly described. nearly 14.5 million americans with a history of cancer were alive on january 1  2014; by january 1  2024  that number will increase to nearly 19 million. the 3 most common prevalent cancers among males are prostate cancer (43%)  colorectal cancer (9%)  and melanoma (8%)  and those among females are cancers of the breast (41%)  uterine corpus (8%)  and colon and rectum (8%). the age distribution of survivors varies substantially by cancer type. for example  the majority of prostate cancer survivors (62%) are aged 70 years or older  whereas less than one-third (32%) of melanoma survivors are in this older age group. it is important for clinicians to understand the unique medical and psychosocial needs of cancer survivors and to proactively assess and manage these issues. there are a growing number of resources that can assist patients  caregivers  and health care providers in navigating the various phases of cancer survivorship.
3708,impact of human immunodeficiency virus infection on the histological features of chronic hepatitis c: a case-control study. the multivirc group.,hepatitis c virus (hcv) is frequently encountered in human immunodeficiency virus (hiv)-infected patients because of common routes of transmission. previous studies suggested that hiv infection impaired the natural course of chronic hepatitis c  with a more rapid progression to cirrhosis. however  these studies did not assess the hiv infection impact on chronic hepatitis c by taking into account the risk factors for liver fibrosis progression: alcohol  sex  age at the contamination  and duration of hcv infection. we studied liver biopsy specimens of 2 groups of 58 patients that were infected by both hcv and hiv or by hcv alone. the 2 groups were matched according those risk factors  and liver biopsy responses were evaluated with the metavir items. the metavir activity was higher in hiv-positive than hiv-negative patients. cirrhosis was more frequent: (1) in hiv-positive patients with cd4 < or = 200 cells/microl (45%) than in hiv-negative patients (10%) (p = .003)  (2) in hiv-positive patients with cd4 < or = 200 cells/microl (45%) than in hiv-positive patients with cd4 > 200 cells/microl (17%) (p = .04). these differences  which were linked to hiv status  might be related to the enhanced hcv replication during hiv infection or other immune mechanisms that need further studies.
3710,expression of a human cytomegalovirus latency-associated homolog of interleukin-10 during the productive phase of infection.,the human cytomegalovirus ul111a region is active during both productive and latent phases of infection. during productive infection  the virus expresses orf79  a protein with oncogenic properties  and cmvil-10  a functional homolog of human il-10. during latent infection of myeloid progenitor cells  an alternately spliced variant of cmvil-10  termed latency-associated (la) cmvil-10 has previously been identified. to determine whether lacmvil-10 transcription occurs during productive infection  we performed 5' and 3' race to map ul111a-region transcripts in productively infected human foreskin fibroblasts (hffs). this analysis revealed the presence of a singly spliced ul111a-region transcript predicted to encode lacmvil-10. this transcript was expressed in hffs with early (beta) kinetics  a temporal class that differs from that of orf79 (alpha kinetics) and cmvil-10 (gamma kinetics). these data identify and map a transcript encoding a latency-associated homolog of il-10 which is expressed by the virus during the productive phase of infection.
3712,a population-based  case–control study of green tea consumption and leukemia risk in southwestern taiwan,this study investigated the association between green tea consumption and leukemia. a total of 252 cases (90.3% response) and 637 controls (53.4% response) were enrolled. controls were matched for cases on age and gender. information was collected on participants’ living habits  including tea consumption. green tea was used as a standard to estimate the total amount of individual catechin consumption. we stratified individual consumption of catechins into four levels. conditional logistic regression models were fit to subjects aged 0–15 and 16–29 years to evaluate separate associations between leukemia and catechin consumption. a significant inverse association between green tea consumption and leukemia risk was found in individuals aged 16–29 years  whereas no significant association was found in the younger age groups. for the older group with higher amounts of tea consumption (>550 units of catechins)  the adjusted odds ratio (or) compared with the group without tea consumption was 0.47 [95% confidence interval (ci) = 0.23–0.97]. after we adjusted for smoking status and medical irradiation exposure  the overall or for all participants was 0.49 (95% ci = 0.27–0.91)  indicating an inverse relation between large amounts of catechins and leukemia. drinking sufficient amounts of tea  especially green tea  which contains more catechins than oolong tea and black tea  may reduce the risk of leukemia.
3714,pulmonary vascular lesions in end-stage idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis: histopathologic study on lung explant specimens and correlations with pulmonary hemodynamics.,in patients presenting with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (ipf)  modifications of pulmonary vessels are well defined in fibrotic areas but have not been accurately assessed in the intervening patches of preserved lung. moreover  the relation between pulmonary vessel lesions and pulmonary hemodynamics is not well known. we therefore designed a retrospective study on lung explant specimens from 26 patients with a firm diagnosis of ipf who had undergone lung transplantation. our aim was to (1) describe the vascular lesions  especially in preserved lung areas  and (2) correlate them with pulmonary hemodynamics. in dense fibrotic zones  thickening of the arterial and venous wall with severe luminal narrowing was present in each patient. in architecturally preserved lung zones  occlusion of venules and small pulmonary veins was observed in 65% of the patients  although there were only mild changes of muscular pulmonary arteries. we found a significant positive correlation between the macroscopic extent of lung fibrosis and mean pulmonary artery pressure  but we failed to find a relation between mean pulmonary artery pressure and venous/venular lesions in nonfibrotic areas. our study points out that in many patients with ipf  nonfibrotic lung areas demonstrate an occlusive venopathy  the signification of which remains undetermined.
3716,circadian rhythms and the regulation of metabolic tissue function and energy homeostasis.,circadian oscillators play an indispensable role in the coordination of physiological processes with the cyclic changes in the physical environment. a significant number of recent clinical and molecular studies suggest that circadian biology may play an important role in the regulation of adipose and other metabolic tissue functions. in this discussion  we present the hypothesis that circadian dysfunction may be involved in the pathogenesis of obesity  type 2 diabetes  and the metabolic syndrome.
3718,periostin  a novel marker of intramembranous ossification  is expressed in fibrous dysplasia and in c-fos-overexpressing bone lesions.,fibrous dysplasia is a benign bone disease caused by a mutation in the gene for the stimulatory guanine nucleotide-binding protein gs alpha  leading to high cyclic adenosine monophosphate levels. histologically  fibrous dysplasia is characterized by the production of fibrous tissue accompanied by the deposition of ectopic type i collagen and other bone-associated extracellular matrix proteins  as well as by irregular woven intramembranous bone onto which type i collagen-containing sharpey fibers are often attached. fibrous dysplasia is also characterized by high expression of c-fos/c-jun  known targets for cyclic adenosine monophosphate signaling. in this study  we examined the expression of the bone-related extracellular matrix protein  periostin  and its known receptor  integrin alpha v beta 3 (cd51/61)  in normal bones as well as in fibrous dysplasia. immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization studies revealed that periostin was expressed in the extracellular matrix during intramembranous but not endochondral ossification  as well as in the fibrous component of fibrous dysplasia; and all cells adjacent to periostin-positive regions expressed cd51/61. importantly  periostin was abundantly localized to sharpey fibers. to investigate the contribution of c-fos  we examined transgenic mice overexpressing c-fos  which develop sclerotic lesions closely resembling those found in fibrous dysplasia. in all lesions  transformed osteoblasts expressed high levels of periostin  whereas normal osteoblasts did not. our results show that periostin is a novel marker for intramembranous ossification  and is a good candidate as a diagnostic tool and/or a therapeutic target in fibrous dysplasia. moreover  the gs alpha-cyclic adenosine monophosphate-c-fos pathway might represent one mechanism of periostin up-regulation in fibrous dysplasia  resulting in altered collagen fibrillogenesis characteristic of this disease.
3720,caspase inhibitors promote alternative cell death pathways.,the use of caspase inhibitors has revealed the existence of alternative backup cell death programs for apoptosis. the broad-spectrum caspase inhibitor zvad-fmk modulates the three major types of cell death. addition of zvad-fmk blocks apoptotic cell death  sensitizes cells to necrotic cell death  and induces autophagic cell death. several studies have shown a crucial role for the kinase rip1 and the adenosine nucleotide translocator (ant)-cyclophilin d (cypd) complex in necrotic cell death. the underlying mechanism of zvad-fmk-mediated sensitization to necrotic cell death involves the inhibition of caspase-8-mediated proteolysis of rip1 and disturbance of the ant-cypd interaction. rip1 is also involved in autophagic cell death. caspase inhibitors and knockdown studies have revealed negative roles for catalase and caspase-8 in autophagic cell death. the positive role of rip1 and the negative role of caspase-8 in both necrotic and autophagic cell death suggest that the pathways of these two types of cell death are interconnected. necrotic cell death represents a rapid cellular response involving mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ros) production  decreased adenosine triphosphate concentration  and other cellular insults  whereas autophagic cell death first starts as a survival attempt by cleaning up ros-damaged mitochondria. however  when this process occurs in excess  autophagy itself becomes cytotoxic and eventually leads to autophagic cell death. a better understanding of the molecular mechanisms of these alternative cell death pathways may provide therapeutic tools to combat cell death associated with neurodegenerative diseases  ischemia-reperfusion pathologies  and infectious diseases  and may also facilitate the development of alternative cytotoxic strategies in cancer treatment.
3722,increased growth after long-term oral 1alpha 25-vitamin d3 in childhood renal osteodystrophy.,we evaluated oral 1 25-vitamin d3 for as long as 26 months in six prepubescent children with renal osteodystrophy previously treated with vitamin d2. therapy was given at 14 to 41 ng per kilogram per day to correct hypocalcemia and reverse bone disease. serum levels of 1 25-vitamin d3 were initially reduced at 15 +/- 5 pg per milliliter (mean +/- s.e.m.) and after treatment rose to 54 +/- 13. serum calcium rose from 7.5 +/- 1.6 mg per deciliter (mean +/- s.d.) to 9.8 +/- 0.6 after one month (p less than 0.02). alkaline phosphatase activity fell from 536 +/- 298 to 208 +/- 91 iu per liter after 12 months (p less than 0.05). serum immunoreactive parathyroid levels fell from 900 +/- 562 microliter eq per milliliter 411 +/- 377. healing of rickets and subperiosteal erosions was found. remineralization of bone was demonstrated by the photon absorption technic. in four patients growth velocity  evaluated for 12 months before and after therapy  increased from 2.6 +/- 0.8 to 8.0 +/- 3.2 cm per year. growth velocity per year increased from less than third percentile in each to the 10th to 97th percentile after therapy. height increment ranged from 27 to 113 per cent of that expected for change in chronologic age and 40 to 114 per cent expected for change in bone age after therapy. this trial demonstrates that oral 1 25-vitamin d3 can reverse renal bone disease and increase growth in uremic children.
3724,the brrf1 early gene of epstein-barr virus encodes a transcription factor that enhances induction of lytic infection by brlf1.,the switch from the latent to the lytic form of epstein-barr virus (ebv) infection is mediated by expression of the viral immediate-early (ie) proteins  bzlf1 (z) and brlf1 (r). an ebv early protein  brrf1 (na)  is encoded by the opposite strand of the brlf1 intron  but the function of this nuclear protein in the viral life cycle is unknown. here we demonstrate that na enhances the r-mediated induction of lytic ebv infection in 293 cells latently infected with a recombinant ebv (r-ko) defective for the expression of both r and na. na also enhances r-induced lytic infections in a gastric carcinoma line (ags) carrying the r-ko virus  although it has no effect in a burkitt lymphoma line (bl-30) stably infected with the same mutant virus. we show that na is a transcription factor that increases the ability of r to activate z expression from the r-ko viral genome in 293 cells and that na by itself activates the z promoter (zp) in ebv-negative cells. na activation of zp requires a cre motif (zii)  and a consensus cre motif is sufficient to transfer na responsiveness to the heterologous e1b promoter. furthermore  we show that na enhances the transactivator function of a gal4-c-jun fusion protein but does not increase the transactivator function of other transcription factors (including atf-1  atf-2  and creb) known to bind cre motifs. na expression in cells results in increased levels of a hyperphosphorylated form of c-jun  suggesting a mechanism by which na activates c-jun. our results indicate that na is a transcription factor that activates the ebv zp ie promoter through its effects on c-jun and suggest that na cooperates with brlf1 to induce the lytic form of ebv infection in certain cell types.
3726,a systematic review of mortality in schizophrenia: is the differential mortality gap worsening over time?,context despite improvements in mental health services in recent decades  it is unclear whether the risk of mortality in schizophrenia has changed over time. objective to explore the distribution of standardized mortality ratios (smrs) for people with schizophrenia. data sources broad search terms were used in medline  psychinfo  web of science  and google scholar to identify all studies that investigated mortality in schizophrenia  published between january 1  1980  and january 31  2006. references were also identified from review articles  reference lists  and communication with authors. study selection population-based studies that reported primary data on deaths in people with schizophrenia. data extraction operationalized criteria were used to extract key study features and mortality data. data synthesis we examined the distribution of smrs and pooled selected estimates using random-effects meta-analysis. we identified 37 articles drawn from 25 different nations. the median smr for all persons for all-cause mortality was 2.58 (10%-90% quantile  1.18-5.76)  with a corresponding random-effects pooled smr of 2.50 (95% confidence interval  2.18-2.43). no sex difference was detected. suicide was associated with the highest smr (12.86); however  most of the major causes-of-death categories were found to be elevated in people with schizophrenia. the smrs for all-cause mortality have increased during recent decades (p = .03). conclusions with respect to mortality  a substantial gap exists between the health of people with schizophrenia and the general community. this differential mortality gap has worsened in recent decades. in light of the potential for second-generation antipsychotic medications to further adversely influence mortality rates in the decades to come  optimizing the general health of people with schizophrenia warrants urgent attention.
3728,emerging role of bisphosphonates in the clinic--antitumor activity and prevention of metastasis to bone.,bisphosphonates are currently used for the treatment of bone metastases  and emerging data suggest that they may also have antitumor properties. preclinical studies have demonstrated that zoledronic acid can inhibit angiogenesis  invasion and adhesion of tumor cells  and overall tumor progression  and emerging evidence suggests that the use of these agents may impede the development of skeletal metastases. in a recent clinical study in patients with metastatic bone disease  basal levels of vascular endothelial growth factor  a factor essential for angiogenesis  were significantly reduced in patients receiving zoledronic acid  suggesting that zoledronic acid may have clinically relevant antiangiogenic properties. early clinical data on prevention of bone metastases by the early-generation bisphosphonate clodronate have yielded promising results in patients with breast cancer  and trials are currently ongoing to assess the efficacy of clodronate in this setting. similarly  the new-generation bisphosphonate zoledronic acid has demonstrated activity in the prevention of bone metastases in small  18-month pilot studies in patients with high-risk solid tumors (n=40; p=0.0002). similarly  in a separate 5-year trial  the overall survival of patients with multiple myeloma was greater in patients whose standard treatment regimens included zoledronic acid compared with standard treatment alone (p<0.01). these encouraging early clinical results supported the initiation of larger randomized trials that are currently ongoing.
3730,chronic renal failure accelerates atherogenesis in apolipoprotein e-deficient mice.,cardiovascular mortality is 10 to 20 times increased in patients with chronic renal failure (crf). risk factors for atherosclerosis are abundant in patients with crf. however  the pathogenesis of cardiovascular disease in crf remains to be elucidated. the effect of crf on the development of atherosclerosis in apolipoprotein e-deficient male mice was examined. seven-week-old mice underwent 5/6 nephrectomy (crf  n = 28)  unilateral nephrectomy (unx  n = 24)  or no surgery (n = 23). twenty-two weeks later  crf mice showed increased aortic plaque area fraction (0.266 +/- 0.033 versus 0.045 +/- 0.006; p < 0.001)  aortic cholesterol content (535 +/- 62 versus 100 +/- 9 nmol/cm(2) intimal surface area; p < 0.001)  and aortic root plaque area (205 296 +/- 22 098 versus 143 662 +/- 13 302 micro m(2); p < 0.05) as compared with no-surgery mice; unx mice showed intermediate values. the plaques from uremic mice contained cd11b-positive macrophages and showed strong staining for nitrotyrosine. systolic bp and plasma homocysteine concentrations were similar in uremic and nonuremic mice. plasma urea and cholesterol concentrations were elevated 2.6-fold (p < 0.001) and 1.5-fold (p < 0.001) in crf compared with no-surgery mice. both variables correlated with aortic plaque area fraction (r(2) = 0.5  p < 0.001 and r(2) = 0.3  p < 0.001  respectively) and with each other (r(2) = 0.5  p < 0.001). on multiple linear regression analysis  only plasma urea was a significant predictor of aortic plaque area fraction. in conclusion  the present findings suggest that uremia markedly accelerates atherogenesis in apolipoprotein e-deficient mice. this effect could not be fully explained by changes in bp  plasma homocysteine levels  or total plasma cholesterol concentrations. thus  the crf apolipoprotein e-deficient mouse is a new model for studying the pathogenesis of accelerated atherosclerosis in uremia.
3732,a dynamic population model to investigate effects of climate on geographic range and seasonality of the tick ixodes scapularis.,a dynamic population model of ixodes scapularis  the vector of a number of tick-borne zoonoses in north america  was developed to simulate effects of temperature on tick survival and seasonality. tick development rates were modelled as temperature-dependent time delays  calculated using mean monthly normal temperature data from specific meteorological stations. temperature also influenced host-finding success in the model. using data from stations near endemic populations of i. scapularis  the model reached repeatable  stable  cyclical equilibria with seasonal activity of different instars being very close to that observed in the field. in simulations run using data from meteorological stations in central and eastern canada  the maximum equilibrium numbers of ticks declined the further north was the station location  and simulated populations died out at more northerly stations. tick die-out at northern latitudes was due to a steady increase in mortality of all life stages with decreasing temperature rather than a specific threshold event in phenology of one life stage. by linear regression we investigated mean annual numbers of degree-days >0 degrees c (dd>0 degrees c) as a readily mapped index of the temperature conditions at the meteorological stations providing temperature data for the model. maximum numbers of ticks at equilibrium were strongly associated with the mean dd>0 degrees c (r2>0.96  p<0.001)  when the province of origin of the meteorological station was accounted for (quebec>ontario  beta=103  p<0.001). the intercepts of the regression models provided theoretical limits for the establishment of i. scapularis in canada. maps of these limits suggested that the range of southeast canada where temperature conditions are currently suitable for the tick  is much wider than the existing distribution of i. scapularis  implying that there is potential for spread. future applications of the model in investigating climate change effects on i. scapularis are discussed.
3734,sputum inflammation predicts exacerbations after cessation of inhaled corticosteroids in copd.,introduction the gold guidelines advocate not to institute inhaled corticosteroids (ics) in patients with mild-to-moderate copd. however  many patients do use ics and in some patients  withdrawal is associated with deteriorating lung function and increased exacerbation rates. unfortunately  physicians do not know in which patients they can stop ics treatment safely. aim to identify predictors of copd exacerbations after ics withdrawal. methods during ics treatment  post-bronchodilator spirometry  body plethysmography  and health status assessment were performed in 68 copd patients using ics. additionally  sputum cell differentials  supernatant leukotriene b(4)  eosinophilic cationic protein  and myeloperoxidase  serum c-reactive protein and soluble intracellular adhesion molecule  and urinary desmosine were assessed. sputum was also analysed for mrna levels of haemoxygenase-1  tumour necrosis factor-α  rantes  interleukin 5(il-5)  il-10  il-12  il-13  transforming growth factor-β  and interferon-γ. statistics cox regression analyses were performed using time to exacerbation as outcome variable to identify significant hazards for a copd exacerbation after ics withdrawal. results higher sputum % eosinophils  higher sputum mpo/neutrophil level  longer duration of copd symptoms  <40 packyears smoking  and ics withdrawal in november  december or january were significant hazards (all p<0.05) for experiencing a copd exacerbation after ics withdrawal in a monovariate model. in a multivariate model  all factors proved independent predictors except for sputum mpo/neutrophil level. conclusions decisions on whether or not inhaled corticosteroids can be safely withdrawn in mild-to-moderate copd can be facilitated by assessment of sputum inflammation  particularly eosinophil numbers  next to packyears smoking  season  and duration of copd symptoms.
3736,phc3  a component of the hprc-h complex  associates with e2f6 during g0 and is lost in osteosarcoma tumors,polyhomeotic-like 3 (phc3) is a ubiquitously expressed member of the polycomb gene family and part of the human polycomb complex hprc-h. we found that in normal cells phc3 associated with both hprc-h complex components and with the transcription factor e2f6. in differentiating and confluent cells  phc3 and e2f6 showed nuclear colocalization in a punctate pattern that resembled the binding of polycomb bodies to heterochromatin. this punctate pattern was not seen in proliferating cells suggesting that phc3 may be part of an e2f6-polycomb complex that has been shown to occupy and silence target promoters in g0. previous loss of heterozygosity (loh) analyses had shown that the region containing phc3 underwent frequent loh in primary human osteosarcoma tumors. when we examined normal bone and human osteosarcoma tumors  we found loss of phc3 expression in 36 of 56 osteosarcoma tumors. sequence analysis revealed that phc3 was mutated in nine of 15 primary osteosarcoma tumors. these findings suggest that loss of phc3 may favor tumorigenesis by potentially disrupting the ability of cells to remain in g0.
3738,high cardiovascular mortality in russia cannot be explained by the classical risk factors. the arkhangelsk study 2000,since the beginning of the 1990s the public health situation in russia has been characterized by an extremely high mortality and a significant reduction in life expectancy. cardiovascular diseases remained the major cause of death. only a few large population studies were conducted in russia during this period. a total of 1968 men and 1737 women aged 18–75 years participated in a health survey in arkhangelsk  russia  over the period 1999–2000. investigation included assessment of classic cardiovascular risk factors (family history  smoking  blood pressure  and blood lipids) along with general health variables. the paper presents sex specific data on risk factors for coronary heart disease. though the cardiovascular mortality is high in russia  the calculated risk for coronary heart disease (the framingham risk score and the norwegian risk score) was lower in all age groups of men and women in arkhangelsk compared with studies from the western europe and usa. our data suggest that high cardiovascular mortality in russia may be driven not only by the classic risk factors for coronary heart disease.
3740,four newly located pseudouridylate residues in escherichia coli 23s ribosomal rna are all at the peptidyltransferase center: analysis by the application of a new sequencing technique.,a new technique has been developed for the facile location of pseudouridylate (psi) residues in any rna molecule. the method uses two known modification procedures which in combination uniquely identify u residues which have been converted into psi. the first procedure involves reaction of all u-like and g-like residues with n-cyclohexyl-n'-beta-(4-methylmorpholinium)ethylcarbodiimide p-tosylate (cmc)  followed by alkaline removal of all cmc groups except those linked to the n3 of psi. this stops reverse transcription  resulting in a gel band which identifies the u residue. the second procedure is uridine-specific hydrazinolysis which cleaves the rna chain at all u residues and produces a gel band upon reverse transcription. psi residues  being resistant to hydrazinolysis  are not cleaved and do not stop reverse transcription. this leads to the absence of a band at psi residues. the combined method can also distinguish psi from 5-methyluridine  4-thiouridine  uridine-5-oxyacetic acid  and 2-thio-5-methylaminomethyluridine as shown by treating rrna and trna species known to contain these modified bases at defined sites. by this procedure  four new sites for psi in escherichia coli 23s rna were discovered  and one was disproven. the four new sites are at positions 2457  2504  2580  and 2605. the erroneous site is at position 2555. these four new psi residues  which are all in or within 2-3 residues of the peptidyltransferase ring  are thus in a position to play a functional and/or structural role at the peptidyltransferase center.(abstract truncated at 250 words)
3742,three-dimensional modeling and quantitative analysis of gap junction distributions in cardiac tissue,gap junctions play a fundamental role in intercellular communication in cardiac tissue. various types of heart disease including hypertrophy and ischemia are associated with alterations of the spatial arrangement of gap junctions. previous studies applied two-dimensional optical and electron-microscopy to visualize gap junction arrangements. in normal cardiomyocytes  gap junctions were primarily found at cell ends  but can be found also in more central regions. in this study  we extended these approaches toward three-dimensional reconstruction of gap junction distributions based on high-resolution scanning confocal microscopy and image processing. we developed methods for quantitative characterization of gap junction distributions based on analysis of intensity profiles along the principal axes of myocytes. the analyses characterized gap junction polarization at cell ends and higher-order statistical image moments of intensity profiles. the methodology was tested in rat ventricular myocardium. our analysis yielded novel quantitative data on gap junction distributions. in particular  the analysis demonstrated that the distributions exhibit significant variability with respect to polarization  skewness  and kurtosis. we suggest that this methodology provides a quantitative alternative to current approaches based on visual inspection  with applications in particular in characterization of engineered and diseased myocardium. furthermore  we propose that these data provide improved input for computational modeling of cardiac conduction.
3744,autosomal dominant lateral temporal epilepsy: two families with novel mutations in the lgi1 gene.,purpose mutations in the leucine rich  glioma inactivated gene (lgi1) were recently described in a small number of families with autosomal dominant lateral temporal epilepsy (adlte). adlte is characterized by partial seizures with symptoms suggestive of a lateral temporal onset  including frequent auditory aura. here we report the results of clinical and genetic analyses of two newly identified families with adtle. methods we identified two families whose seizure semiology was suggestive of adlte. evaluation included a detailed history and neurologic examination  as well as collection of dna. the coding sequence of the lgi1 gene from affected subjects from both families was analyzed for evidence of mutation. results each patient had a history of partial seizures  often with secondary generalization earlier in the course. auditory aura was reported by approximately two thirds of affected patients in each pedigree. novel mutations in lgi1 were detected in both families. a heterozygous single-nucleotide deletion at position 329 (del 329c) was detected in affected individuals from one family  whereas patients from the second family had a nonsynonymous variation  corresponding to c435g. conclusions we identified two novel mutations in the lgi1 gene. the phenotype of these two families was similar to that of other kindreds with adlte  as auditory aura was absent in one third of affected individuals. our results further support that lgi1 mutations should be considered in patients with a history of partial seizures if the semiology of seizures is consistent with the onset in the lateral temporal lobe.
3746,changes in white blood cells and platelets in children with falciparum malaria: relationship to disease outcome.,little is known about the changes in white blood cells and platelets in children with falciparum malaria in endemic areas. we measured the white cell count (wcc) and platelets of 230 healthy children from the community  1369 children admitted to hospital with symptomatic malaria  and 1461 children with other medical conditions. children with malaria had a higher wcc compared with community controls  and leucocytosis was strongly associated with younger age  deep breathing  severe anaemia  thrombocytopenia and death. the wcc was not associated with a positive blood culture. in children with malaria  high lymphocyte and low monocyte counts were independently associated with mortality. a platelet count of less than 150 x 109/l was found in 56.7% of children with malaria  and was associated with age  prostration and parasite density  but not with bleeding problems or mortality. the mean platelet volume was also higher in children with malaria compared with other medical conditions. this may reflect early release from the bone marrow in response to peripheral platelet destruction. thus  leucocytosis was associated with both severity and mortality in children with falciparum malaria  irrespective of bacteraemia  whereas thrombocytopenia  although very common  was not associated with adverse outcome.
3748,homocysteine induces trophoblast cell death with apoptotic features1,abstract hyperhomocysteinemia has been suggested as a possible risk factor in women suffering from habitual abortions  placental abruption or infarcts  preeclampsia  and/or intrauterine growth retardation. however  little is known about the pathogenic mechanisms underlying the action of homocysteine. the present study investigated the in vitro ability of homocysteine to affect trophoblast gonadotropin secretion and to induce cell death. in primary human trophoblast cells  homocysteine treatment (20 μmol/l) resulted in cellular flattening and enlargement  extension of pseudopodia  and cellular vacuolization. cellular detachment  apoptosis  and necrosis were favored. with in situ nick end labeling  we investigated dna degradation  and we used m30 cytodeath to selectively stain the cytoplasm of apoptotic cells. cytochrome c release from mitochondria to the cytosol and dna cleavage in agarose gel have been investigated. homocysteine  but not cysteine  induced trophoblast apoptosis and significantly reduced human chorionic gonadotropin secretion. these findings suggest that trophoblast cell death might represent a pathogenic mechanism by which homocysteine may cause pregnancy complications related to placental diseases.
3750,cardiovascular risk and events in 17 low-  middle-  and high-income countries.,background more than 80% of deaths from cardiovascular disease are estimated to occur in low-income and middle-income countries  but the reasons are unknown. methods we enrolled 156 424 persons from 628 urban and rural communities in 17 countries (3 high-income  10 middle-income  and 4 low-income countries) and assessed their cardiovascular risk using the interheart risk score  a validated score for quantifying risk-factor burden without the use of laboratory testing (with higher scores indicating greater risk-factor burden). participants were followed for incident cardiovascular disease and death for a mean of 4.1 years. results the mean interheart risk score was highest in high-income countries  intermediate in middle-income countries  and lowest in low-income countries (p<0.001). however  the rates of major cardiovascular events (death from cardiovascular causes  myocardial infarction  stroke  or heart failure) were lower in high-income countries than in middle- and low-income countries (3.99 events per 1000 person-years vs. 5.38 and 6.43 events per 1000 person-years  respectively; p<0.001). case fatality rates were also lowest in high-income countries (6.5%  15.9%  and 17.3% in high-  middle-  and low-income countries  respectively; p=0.01). urban communities had a higher risk-factor burden than rural communities but lower rates of cardiovascular events (4.83 vs. 6.25 events per 1000 person-years  p<0.001) and case fatality rates (13.52% vs. 17.25%  p<0.001). the use of preventive medications and revascularization procedures was significantly more common in high-income countries than in middle- or low-income countries (p<0.001). conclusions although the risk-factor burden was lowest in low-income countries  the rates of major cardiovascular disease and death were substantially higher in low-income countries than in high-income countries. the high burden of risk factors in high-income countries may have been mitigated by better control of risk factors and more frequent use of proven pharmacologic therapies and revascularization. (funded by the population health research institute and others.).
3752,blockade of tim-1 and tim-4 enhances atherosclerosis in low-density lipoprotein receptor-deficient mice.,objective t cell immunoglobulin and mucin domain (tim) proteins are expressed by numerous immune cells  recognize phosphatidylserine on apoptotic cells  and function as costimulators or coinhibitors. tim-1 is expressed by activated t cells but is also found on dendritic cells and b cells. tim-4  present on macrophages and dendritic cells  plays a critical role in apoptotic cell clearance  regulates the number of phosphatidylserine-expressing activated t cells  and is genetically associated with low low-density lipoprotein and triglyceride levels. because these functions of tim-1 and tim-4 could affect atherosclerosis  their modulation has potential therapeutic value in cardiovascular disease. approach and results ldlr(-/-) mice were fed a high-fat diet for 4 weeks while being treated with control (rat immunoglobulin g1) or anti-tim-1 (3d10) or -tim-4 (21h12) monoclonal antibodies that block phosphatidylserine recognition and phagocytosis. both anti-tim-1 and anti-tim-4 treatments enhanced atherosclerosis by 45% compared with controls by impairment of efferocytosis and increasing aortic cd4(+)t cells. consistently  anti-tim-4-treated mice showed increased percentages of activated t cells and late apoptotic cells in the circulation. moreover  in vitro blockade of tim-4 inhibited efferocytosis of oxidized low-density lipoprotein-induced apoptotic macrophages. although anti-tim-4 treatment increased t helper cell (th)1 and th2 responses  anti-tim-1 induced th2 responses but dramatically reduced the percentage of regulatory t cells. finally  combined blockade of tim-1 and tim-4 increased atherosclerotic lesion size by 59%. conclusions blockade of tim-4 aggravates atherosclerosis likely by prevention of phagocytosis of phosphatidylserine-expressing apoptotic cells and activated t cells by tim-4-expressing cells  whereas tim-1-associated effects on atherosclerosis are related to changes in th1/th2 balance and reduced circulating regulatory t cells.
3754,nitroxergic nerves mediate vagally induced relaxation in the isolated stomach of the guinea pig.,here we show that the relaxation induced by stimulation of the vagus nerve in the presence of cholinergic (muscarinic) and adrenergic blockade in the isolated stomach of the guinea pig is mediated by nitric oxide (no). this is substantiated by inhibition of vagal relaxation by ng-monomethyl-l-arginine  an inhibitor of no synthesis. the effect of ng-monomethyl-l-arginine was partially reversed by coincubation with l-arginine but not with d-arginine. no activates soluble guanylate cyclase  and relaxation of the stomach induced by vagal stimulation was prevented by an inhibitor of soluble guanylate cyclase  methylene blue  further supporting our conclusions. the relaxant effect of vagal stimulation was also ablated by hexamethonium  an inhibitor of ganglionic nicotinic receptors  thereby showing that ganglionic transmission did not rely on no  through its release from preganglionic neurons. however  hexamethonium did not inhibit the gastric relaxation brought about by increasing the intragastric pressure  which is also mediated by no as previously described by us. the selective inhibition by hexamethonium of only the vagally mediated relaxation but not of the pressure-induced relaxation of the stomach indicates the existence of at least two separate neuronal pathways able to generate no and bring about gastric accommodation of food or fluid.
3756,crystal structure of human insulin-regulated aminopeptidase with specificity for cyclic peptides.,insulin-regulated aminopeptidase (irap or oxytocinase) is a membrane-bound zinc-metallopeptidase that cleaves neuroactive peptides in the brain and produces memory enhancing effects when inhibited. we have determined the crystal structure of human irap revealing a closed  four domain arrangement with a large  mostly buried cavity abutting the active site. the structure reveals that the gamen exopeptidase loop adopts a very different conformation from other aminopeptidases  thus explaining irap's unique specificity for cyclic peptides such as oxytocin and vasopressin. computational docking of a series of irap-specific cognitive enhancers into the crystal structure provides a molecular basis for their structure-activity relationships and demonstrates that the structure will be a powerful tool in the development of new classes of cognitive enhancers for treating a variety of memory disorders such as alzheimer's disease.
3758,does socioeconomic status matter? a meta-analysis on parent training effectiveness for disruptive child behavior.,disadvantaged family socioeconomic status (ses) is often assumed to diminish parent training program effectiveness. in examining effects of ses  influences of initial problem severity have been largely ignored. in the present meta-analysis  we examined (a) whether there is a differential influence of ses on parent training effectiveness at immediate posttreatment and at 1-year follow-up-controlling for levels of initial problem severity--and (b) whether ses interacts with initial problem severity in its effect on program effectiveness. seventy-five studies on parent training program effectiveness to reduce disruptive child behavior were included. separate analyses were conducted for immediate posttreatment and approximately 1-year follow-up assessments. immediately posttreatment  disadvantaged samples benefited less from parent training  but only when they had low levels of initial problem severity. at follow-up  disadvantaged samples benefited less from parent training regardless of initial problem severity. initial problem severity was a strong predictor of effect sizes both immediately posttreatment and at follow-up. parent training programs are equally effective for disadvantaged and nondisadvantaged families immediately posttreatment  at least when initial problems are severe. maintenance of treatment gain  however  seems harder for disadvantaged families  suggesting that more sustained family support may be needed.
3760,molecular analysis of circulating tumour cells—biology and biomarkers,growing evidence for intratumour heterogeneity informs us that single-site biopsies fall short of revealing the complete genomic landscape of a tumour. with an expanding repertoire of targeted agents entering the clinic  screening tumours for genomic aberrations is increasingly important  as is interrogating the tumours for resistance mechanisms upon disease progression. multiple biopsies separated spatially and temporally are impractical  uncomfortable for the patient and not without risk. here  we describe how circulating tumour cells (ctcs)  captured from a minimally invasive blood test—and readily amenable to serial sampling—have the potential to inform intratumour heterogeneity and tumour evolution  although it remains to be determined how useful this will be in the clinic. technologies for detecting and isolating ctcs include the validated cellsearch® system  but other technologies are gaining prominence. we also discuss how recent ctc discoveries map to mechanisms of haematological spread  previously described in preclinical models  including evidence for epithelial–mesenchymal transition  collective cell migration and cells with tumour-initiating capacity within the circulation. advances in single-cell molecular analysis are enhancing our ability to explore mechanisms of metastasis  and the combination of ctc and cell-free dna assays are anticipated to provide invaluable blood-borne biomarkers for real-time patient monitoring and treatment stratification.
3762,coactivator src-2-dependent metabolic reprogramming mediates prostate cancer survival and metastasis.,metabolic pathway reprogramming is a hallmark of cancer cell growth and survival and supports the anabolic and energetic demands of these rapidly dividing cells. the underlying regulators of the tumor metabolic program are not completely understood; however  these factors have potential as cancer therapy targets. here  we determined that upregulation of the oncogenic transcriptional coregulator steroid receptor coactivator 2 (src-2)  also known as ncoa2  drives glutamine-dependent de novo lipogenesis  which supports tumor cell survival and eventual metastasis. src-2 was highly elevated in a variety of tumors  especially in prostate cancer  in which src-2 was amplified and overexpressed in 37% of the metastatic tumors evaluated. in prostate cancer cells  src-2 stimulated reductive carboxylation of α-ketoglutarate to generate citrate via retrograde tca cycling  promoting lipogenesis and reprogramming of glutamine metabolism. glutamine-mediated nutrient signaling activated src-2 via mtorc1-dependent phosphorylation  which then triggered downstream transcriptional responses by coactivating srebp-1  which subsequently enhanced lipogenic enzyme expression. metabolic profiling of human prostate tumors identified a massive increase in the src-2-driven metabolic signature in metastatic tumors compared with that seen in localized tumors  further implicating src-2 as a prominent metabolic coordinator of cancer metastasis. moreover  src-2 inhibition in murine models severely attenuated the survival  growth  and metastasis of prostate cancer. together  these results suggest that the src-2 pathway has potential as a therapeutic target for prostate cancer.
3764,relative effectiveness of clinic and home blood pressure monitoring compared with ambulatory blood pressure monitoring in diagnosis of hypertension: systematic review,objective to determine the relative accuracy of clinic measurements and home blood pressure monitoring compared with ambulatory blood pressure monitoring as a reference standard for the diagnosis of hypertension. design systematic review with meta-analysis with hierarchical summary receiver operating characteristic models. methodological quality was appraised  including evidence of validation of blood pressure measurement equipment. data sources medline (from 1966)  embase (from 1980)  cochrane database of systematic reviews  dare  medion  arif  and trip up to may 2010. eligibility criteria for selecting studies eligible studies examined diagnosis of hypertension in adults of all ages using home and/or clinic blood pressure measurement compared with those made using ambulatory monitoring that clearly defined thresholds to diagnose hypertension. results the 20 eligible studies used various thresholds for the diagnosis of hypertension  and only seven studies (clinic) and three studies (home) could be directly compared with ambulatory monitoring. compared with ambulatory monitoring thresholds of 135/85 mm hg  clinic measurements over 140/90 mm hg had mean sensitivity and specificity of 74.6% (95% confidence interval 60.7% to 84.8%) and 74.6% (47.9% to 90.4%)  respectively  whereas home measurements over 135/85 mm hg had mean sensitivity and specificity of 85.7% (78.0% to 91.0%) and 62.4% (48.0% to 75.0%). conclusions neither clinic nor home measurement had sufficient sensitivity or specificity to be recommended as a single diagnostic test. if ambulatory monitoring is taken as the reference standard  then treatment decisions based on clinic or home blood pressure alone might result in substantial overdiagnosis. ambulatory monitoring before the start of lifelong drug treatment might lead to more appropriate targeting of treatment  particularly around the diagnostic threshold.
3766,regulation of arabinose and xylose metabolism in escherichia coli.,bacteria such as escherichia coli will often consume one sugar at a time when fed multiple sugars  in a process known as carbon catabolite repression. the classic example involves glucose and lactose  where e. coli will first consume glucose  and only when it has consumed all of the glucose will it begin to consume lactose. in addition to that of lactose  glucose also represses the consumption of many other sugars  including arabinose and xylose. in this work  we characterized a second hierarchy in e. coli  that between arabinose and xylose. we show that  when grown in a mixture of the two pentoses  e. coli will consume arabinose before it consumes xylose. consistent with a mechanism involving catabolite repression  the expression of the xylose metabolic genes is repressed in the presence of arabinose. we found that this repression is arac dependent and involves a mechanism where arabinose-bound arac binds to the xylose promoters and represses gene expression. collectively  these results demonstrate that sugar utilization in e. coli involves multiple layers of regulation  where cells will consume first glucose  then arabinose  and finally xylose. these results may be pertinent in the metabolic engineering of e. coli strains capable of producing chemical and biofuels from mixtures of hexose and pentose sugars derived from plant biomass.
3768,circos: an information aesthetic for comparative genomics.,we created a visualization tool called circos to facilitate the identification and analysis of similarities and differences arising from comparisons of genomes. our tool is effective in displaying variation in genome structure and  generally  any other kind of positional relationships between genomic intervals. such data are routinely produced by sequence alignments  hybridization arrays  genome mapping  and genotyping studies. circos uses a circular ideogram layout to facilitate the display of relationships between pairs of positions by the use of ribbons  which encode the position  size  and orientation of related genomic elements. circos is capable of displaying data as scatter  line  and histogram plots  heat maps  tiles  connectors  and text. bitmap or vector images can be created from gff-style data inputs and hierarchical configuration files  which can be easily generated by automated tools  making circos suitable for rapid deployment in data analysis and reporting pipelines.
3770,blm is required for faithful chromosome segregation and its localization defines a class of ultrafine anaphase bridges.,mutations in blm cause bloom's syndrome  a disorder associated with cancer predisposition and chromosomal instability. we investigated whether blm plays a role in ensuring the faithful chromosome segregation in human cells. we show that blm-defective cells display a higher frequency of anaphase bridges and lagging chromatin than do isogenic corrected derivatives that eptopically express the blm protein. in normal cells undergoing mitosis  blm protein localizes to anaphase bridges  where it colocalizes with its cellular partners  topoisomerase iiialpha and hrmi1 (blap75). using blm staining as a marker  we have identified a class of ultrafine dna bridges in anaphase that are surprisingly prevalent in the anaphase population of normal human cells. these so-called blm-dna bridges  which also stain for the pich protein  frequently link centromeric loci  and are present at an elevated frequency in cells lacking blm. on the basis of these results  we propose that sister-chromatid disjunction is often incomplete in human cells even after the onset of anaphase. we present a model for the action of blm in ensuring complete sister chromatid decatenation in anaphase.
3772,shared and distinct genetic variants in type 1 diabetes and celiac disease.,background two inflammatory disorders  type 1 diabetes and celiac disease  cosegregate in populations  suggesting a common genetic origin. since both diseases are associated with the hla class ii genes on chromosome 6p21  we tested whether non-hla loci are shared. methods we evaluated the association between type 1 diabetes and eight loci related to the risk of celiac disease by genotyping and statistical analyses of dna samples from 8064 patients with type 1 diabetes  9339 control subjects  and 2828 families providing 3064 parent-child trios (consisting of an affected child and both biologic parents). we also investigated 18 loci associated with type 1 diabetes in 2560 patients with celiac disease and 9339 control subjects. results three celiac disease loci--rgs1 on chromosome 1q31  il18rap on chromosome 2q12  and tagap on chromosome 6q25--were associated with type 1 diabetes (p<1.00x10(-4)). the 32-bp insertion-deletion variant on chromosome 3p21 was newly identified as a type 1 diabetes locus (p=1.81x10(-8)) and was also associated with celiac disease  along with ptpn2 on chromosome 18p11 and ctla4 on chromosome 2q33  bringing the total number of loci with evidence of a shared association to seven  including sh2b3 on chromosome 12q24. the effects of the il18rap and tagap alleles confer protection in type 1 diabetes and susceptibility in celiac disease. loci with distinct effects in the two diseases included ins on chromosome 11p15  il2ra on chromosome 10p15  and ptpn22 on chromosome 1p13 in type 1 diabetes and il12a on 3q25 and lpp on 3q28 in celiac disease. conclusions a genetic susceptibility to both type 1 diabetes and celiac disease shares common alleles. these data suggest that common biologic mechanisms  such as autoimmunity-related tissue damage and intolerance to dietary antigens  may be etiologic features of both diseases.
3774,treatment-related mortality with bevacizumab in cancer patients: a meta-analysis.,context fatal adverse events (faes) have been reported in cancer patients treated with the widely used angiogenesis inhibitor bevacizumab in combination with chemotherapy. currently  the role of bevacizumab in treatment-related mortality is not clear. objective to perform a systematic review and meta-analysis of published randomized controlled trials (rcts) to determine the overall risk of faes associated with bevacizumab. data sources pubmed  embase  and web of science databases as well as abstracts presented at american society of clinical oncology conferences from january 1966 to october 2010 were searched to identify relevant studies. study selection and data extraction eligible studies included prospective rcts in which bevacizumab in combination with chemotherapy or biological therapy was compared with chemotherapy or biological therapy alone. summary incidence rates  relative risks (rrs)  and 95% confidence intervals (cis) were calculated using fixed- or random-effects models. data synthesis a total of 10 217 patients with a variety of advanced solid tumors from 16 rcts were included in the analysis. the overall incidence of faes with bevacizumab was 2.5% (95% ci  1.7%-3.9%). compared with chemotherapy alone  the addition of bevacizumab was associated with an increased risk of faes  with an rr of 1.46 (95% ci  1.09-1.94; p = .01; incidence  2.5% vs 1.7%). this association varied significantly with chemotherapeutic agents (p = .045) but not with tumor types (p = .13) or bevacizumab doses (p = .16). bevacizumab was associated with an increased risk of faes in patients receiving taxanes or platinum agents (rr  3.49; 95% ci  1.82-6.66; incidence  3.3% vs 1.0%) but was not associated with increased risk of faes when used in conjunction with other agents (rr  0.85; 95% ci  0.25-2.88; incidence  0.8% vs 0.9%). the most common causes of faes were hemorrhage (23.5%)  neutropenia (12.2%)  and gastrointestinal tract perforation (7.1%). conclusion in a meta-analysis of rcts  bevacizumab in combination with chemotherapy or biological therapy  compared with chemotherapy alone  was associated with increased treatment-related mortality.
3776,low serum vitamin d is associated with high risk of diabetes in korean adults.,vitamin d may play a role in glucose metabolism. a low vitamin d level has been associated with increased risk of diabetes mellitus  but the association has not been confirmed in asians. our objective was to examine the association of serum 25-hydroxyvitamin d [25(oh)d] levels with insulin resistance and diabetes mellitus in korean adults based on a large population-based survey. cross-sectional analyses were carried out on 5787 korean adults (2453 men and 3334 women) who were 20 y or older and participated in the fourth korea nhanes conducted in 2008. diabetes mellitus was defined as fasting plasma glucose ≥7 mmol/l or current use of oral hypoglycemic agents or insulin. insulin resistance was estimated by homeostatic model assessment for insulin resistance (homa-ir) and quantitative insulin sensitivity check index (quicki). compared to individuals with a sufficient serum 25(oh)d concentration ≥75 nmol/l  the or (95% ci) for diabetes mellitus were 1.73 (1.09-2.74)  1.30 (0.91-1.84)  and 1.40 (0.99-1.98) for serum 25(oh)d concentrations <25  25 to <50  and 50 to <75 nmol/l  respectively  after multiple adjustments (p-trend < 0.0001). furthermore  the serum 25(oh)d level was inversely associated with homa-ir (β = -0.061; p = 0.001) and positively associated with quicki (β = 0.059; p = 0.001) in overweight or obese participants. in conclusion  a low serum vitamin d concentration is associated with a high risk of diabetes mellitus in korean adults and the concentration is inversely associated with insulin resistance in those who are overweight or obese.
3778,toll-like receptor-3 mediates hiv-1 transactivation via nfκb and jnk pathways and histone acetylation  but prolonged activation suppresses tat and hiv-1 replication.,tlr3 has been implicated in the pathogenesis of several viral infections  including siv- and hiv-1-induced inflammation and aids. however the molecular mechanisms of these tlr3-mediated effects are not known  and it is not known whether hiv interacts with cellular tlr3 to affect disease process. here we investigate the effects of tlr3 ligands on hiv-1 transactivation using both primary human macrophages and cells containing integrated copies of the hiv-1 promoter. we demonstrate that tlr3 activation induced upregulation of transcription factors such as c-jun  ccaat/enhancer-binding protein alpha (cebpa)  signal transducer and activator of transcription (stat)-1  stat-2  relb  and nuclear factor kappa-b1 (nfκb1)  most of which are known to regulate the hiv promoter activity. we also demonstrate that tlr3 activation increased hiv-1 transactivation via the c-jun n-terminal kinase (jnk) and nfκb pathways. this was associated with epigenetic modifications  including decreased histone deacetylase activity  increased histone acetyl transferase (hat) activity  and increased acetylation of histones h3 and h4 at lysine residues in the nucleosome-0 and nucleosome-1 of the hiv-1 promoter. however  prolonged tlr3 activation decreased hiv-1 transactivation  decreased hat activity and tat transcription  and suppressed viral replication. overall  data suggests that tlr3 can act as viral sensor to mediate viral transactivation  cellular signaling  innate immune response  and inflammation in hiv-infected humans. our study provides novel insights into the molecular basis for these tlr3-mediated effects.
3780,a conserved phosphatase cascade that regulates nuclear membrane biogenesis.,a newly emerging family of phosphatases that are members of the haloacid dehalogenase superfamily contains the catalytic motif dxdx(t/v). a member of this dxdx(t/v) phosphatase family known as dullard was recently shown to be a potential regulator of neural tube development in xenopus [satow r  chan tc  asashima m (2002) biochem biophys res commun 295:85-91]. herein  we demonstrate that human dullard and the yeast protein nem1p perform similar functions in mammalian cells and yeast cells  respectively. in addition to similarity in primary sequence  dullard and nem1p possess similar domains and show similar substrate preferences  and both localize to the nuclear envelope. additionally  we show that human dullard can rescue the aberrant nuclear envelope morphology of nem1delta yeast cells  functionally replacing nem1p. finally  nem1p  has been shown to deposphorylate the yeast phosphatidic acid phosphatase smp2p [santos-rosa h  leung j  grimsey n  peak-chew s  siniossoglou s (2005) embo j 24:1931-1941]  and we show that dullard dephosphorylates the mammalian phospatidic acid phosphatase  lipin. therefore  we propose that dullard participates in a unique phosphatase cascade regulating nuclear membrane biogenesis  and that this cascade is conserved from yeast to mammals.
3782,eset partners with oct4 to restrict extraembryonic trophoblast lineage potential in embryonic stem cells.,the histone h3 lys 9 (h3k9) methyltransferase eset is an epigenetic regulator critical for the development of the inner cell mass (icm). although icm-derived embryonic stem (es) cells are normally unable to contribute to the trophectoderm (te) in blastocysts  we find that depletion of eset by shrnas leads to differentiation with the formation of trophoblast-like cells and induction of trophoblast-associated gene expression. using chromatin immmunoprecipitation (chip) and sequencing (chip-seq) analyses  we identified eset target genes with eset-dependent h3k9 trimethylation. we confirmed that genes that are preferentially expressed in the te (tcfap2a and cdx2) are bound and repressed by eset. single-cell pcr analysis shows that the expression of cdx2 and tcfap2a is also induced in eset-depleted morula cells. importantly  eset-depleted cells can incorporate into the te of a blastocyst and  subsequently  placental tissues. coimmunoprecipitation and chip assays further demonstrate that eset interacts with oct4  which in turn recruits eset to silence these trophoblast-associated genes. our results suggest that eset restricts the extraembryonic trophoblast lineage potential of pluripotent cells and links an epigenetic regulator to key cell fate decision through a pluripotency factor.
3784,metformin-associated lactic acidosis: a rare or very rare clinical entity?,aims lactic acidosis is a well recognized complication of biguanide therapy which is potentially serious. although the prevalence of metformin-associated lactic acidosis (mala) is much lower than that associated with phenformin  it is still being reported sporadically which raises concerns for the practising clinicians. we review the currently available world-wide data of the prevalence of mala  the risk factors for its development and the current practical guidelines on the use of metformin to minimize the risk of this potential hazard. methods an extensive literature search was conducted from both medline and ovid (1965-98) using the following keywords: 'type 2 diabetes mellitus'  'oral hypoglycaemic drugs'  'biguanides'  'metformin-associated lactic acidosis' and 'renal impairment'. results mala was found to be a very rare clinical entity  being 20 times less common than phenformin-associated lactic acidosis. amongst all the risk factors  renal impairment appears to be the major precipitating factor for the development of mala in metformin-treated patients. we also found cases of mala where no precipitating factors were identified and the underlying mechanism in these cases remains unclear. practical recommendations of metformin use to minimize the risk of mala have been listed based on previous reports. conclusions the low prevalence of mala is comparable to the prevalence of sulphonylurea-induced hypoglycaemia. metformin has many beneficial metabolic effects in the management of type 2 diabetes mellitus. provided that the recommended guidelines for metformin use are strictly adhered to  its widespread use would be safe and the incidence of mala will be further reduced.
3786,mental health problems of homeless children and families: longitudinal study.,objective to establish the mental health needs of homeless children and families before and after rehousing. design cross sectional  longitudinal study. setting city of birmingham. subjects 58 rehoused families with 103 children aged 2-16 years and 21 comparison families of low socioeconomic status in stable housing  with 54 children. main outcome measures children's mental health problems and level of communication; mothers' mental health problems and social support one year after rehousing. results mental health problems remained significantly higher in rehoused mothers and their children than in the comparison group (mothers 26% v 5%  p = 0.04; children 39% v 11%  p = 0.0003). homeless mothers continued to have significantly less social support at follow up. mothers with a history of abuse and poor social integration were more likely to have children with persistent mental health problems. conclusions homeless families have a high level of complex needs that cannot be met by conventional health services and arrangements. local strategies for rapid rehousing into permanent accommodation  effective social support and health care for parents and children  and protection from violence and intimidation should be developed and implemented.
3788,crystal structure of the first plant urease from jack bean: 83 years of journey from its first crystal to molecular structure.,urease  a nickel-dependent metalloenzyme  is synthesized by plants  some bacteria  and fungi. it catalyzes the hydrolysis of urea into ammonia and carbon dioxide. although the amino acid sequences of plant and bacterial ureases are closely related  some biological activities differ significantly. plant ureases but not bacterial ureases possess insecticidal properties independent of its ureolytic activity. to date  the structural information is available only for bacterial ureases although the jack bean urease (canavalia ensiformis; jbu)  the best-studied plant urease  was the first enzyme to be crystallized in 1926. to better understand the biological properties of plant ureases including the mechanism of insecticidal activity  we initiated the structural studies on some of them. here  we report the crystal structure of jbu  the first plant urease structure  at 2.05 a resolution. the active-site architecture of jbu is similar to that of bacterial ureases containing a bi-nickel center. jbu has a bound phosphate and covalently modified residue (cys592) by beta-mercaptoethanol at its active site  and the concomitant binding of multiple inhibitors (phosphate and beta-mercaptoethanol) is not observed so far in bacterial ureases. by correlating the structural information of jbu with the available biophysical and biochemical data on insecticidal properties of plant ureases  we hypothesize that the amphipathic beta-hairpin located in the entomotoxic peptide region of plant ureases might form a membrane insertion beta-barrel as found in beta-pore-forming toxins.
3790,activation of liver x receptors and retinoid x receptors prevents bacterial-induced macrophage apoptosis.,microbe-macrophage interactions play a central role in the pathogenesis of many infections. the ability of some bacterial pathogens to induce macrophage apoptosis has been suggested to contribute to their ability to elude innate immune responses and successfully colonize the host. here  we provide evidence that activation of liver x receptors (lxrs) and retinoid x receptors (rxrs) inhibits apoptotic responses of macrophages to macrophage colony-stimulating factor (m-csf) withdrawal and several inducers of apoptosis. in addition  combined activation of lxr and rxr protected macrophages from apoptosis caused by infection with bacillus anthracis  escherichia coli  and salmonella typhimurium. expression-profiling studies demonstrated that lxr and rxr agonists induced the expression of antiapoptotic regulators  including aim/ct2  bcl-x(l)  and birc1a. conversely  lxr and rxr agonists inhibited expression of proapoptotic regulators and effectors  including caspases 1  4/11  7  and 12; fas ligand; and dnase1l3. the combination of lxr and rxr agonists was more effective than either agonist alone at inhibiting apoptosis in response to various inducers of apoptosis  and it acted synergistically to induce expression of aim/ct2. inhibition of aim/ct2 expression in response to lxr/rxr agonists partially reversed their antiapoptotic effects. these findings reveal unexpected roles of lxrs and rxrs in the control of macrophage survival and raise the possibility that lxr/rxr agonists may be exploited to enhance innate immunity to bacterial pathogens that induce apoptotic programs as a strategy for evading host responses.
3792,diminished sympathetic nervous system activity in genetically obese (ob/ob) mouse.,the genetically obese (ob/ob) mouse exhibits defective thermoregulatory responses to cold exposure. pathophysiological explanations for this phenomenon have focused on abnormalities in intracellular metabolism or insensitivity of peripheral tissues to the thermogenic effects of catecholamines. because the sympathetic nervous system (sns) is subject to feedback regulation  a peripheral impairment in thermogenesis should be associated with a compensatory increase in sns activity. to examine sns activity in the ob/ob mouse  norepinephrine (ne) turnover was measured in heart and interscapular brown adipose tissue (ibat) of ob/ob and lean mice. the results from studies utilizing radiolabeled ne or inhibition of ne biosynthesis with alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine to measure ne turnover demonstrated reductions in sns activity of 33-56% in heart and of 45-73% in ibat in ob/ob mice at ambient temperature (22 degrees c) compared with measurements in lean controls. during cold exposure (4 degrees c) ne turnover increased in heart and ibat to a similar extent in both ob/ob and lean mice  but ne turnover rates in heart  and probably in ibat as well  remained lower in the obese mice than in the lean despite the gradual development of hypothermia in the ob/ob mice during this period. administration of naltrexone  a long-acting opiate antagonist  failed to reverse the suppression of sns activity observed in the ob/ob mice. these data indicate that diminished sns activity in ob/ob mice may be an additional factor contributing to the defective thermogenesis characteristic of these animals.
3794,neighborhood racial/ethnic concentration  social disadvantage  and homicide risk: an ecological analysis of 10 u.s. cities,homicide is one of the leading causes of death among african-american and hispanic men. we investigated how neighborhood characteristics associated with social disadvantage explain racial/ethnic homicide gaps in 10 u.s. cities. the test hypotheses were that (1) higher concentrations of african-americans and hispanics would be associated with higher homicide rates and (2) the relationship between racial/ethnic concentration and homicide would be attenuated after adjusting for neighborhood characteristics (e.g.  unemployment  median household income  low educational attainment  and female headship). the test hypotheses were examined using separate poisson regression models  which adjusted for spatial autocorrelation. homicide rates were greater in neighborhoods with higher concentrations of african-americans and hispanics than in other groups  and the association of neighborhood racial/ethnic concentration with homicide was reduced after adjusting for neighborhood social disadvantage variables  especially percent female head of household and percent persons with less than a high school education. we also found that the relationship between neighborhood racial/ethnic concentration and homicide was explained more by social disadvantage variables in some cities than in others. based on our findings  policy makers may wish to consider implementation of policies that (1) expand early childhood education programs and higher education opportunities and (2) encourage economic and community development initiatives in socially disadvantaged neighborhoods.
3796,political and economic aspects of the transition to universal health coverage.,countries have reached universal health coverage by different paths and with varying health systems. nonetheless  the trajectory toward universal health coverage regularly has three common features. the first is a political process driven by a variety of social forces to create public programmes or regulations that expand access to care  improve equity  and pool financial risks. the second is a growth in incomes and a concomitant rise in health spending  which buys more health services for more people. the third is an increase in the share of health spending that is pooled rather than paid out-of-pocket by households. this pooled share is sometimes mobilised as taxes and channelled through governments that provide or subsidise care--in other cases it is mobilised in the form of contributions to mandatory insurance schemes. the predominance of pooled spending is a necessary condition (but not sufficient) for achieving universal health coverage. this paper describes common patterns in countries that have successfully provided universal access to health care and considers how economic growth  demographics  technology  politics  and health spending have intersected to bring about this major development in public health.
3798,il-17 promotes tumor development through the induction of tumor promoting microenvironments at tumor sites and myeloid-derived suppressor cells.,the role of immune responses in tumor development is a central issue for tumor biology and immunology. il-17 is an important cytokine for inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. although il-17-producing cells are detected in cancer patients and tumor-bearing mice  the role of il-17 in tumor development is controversial  and mechanisms remain to be fully elucidated. in the current study  we found that the development of tumors was inhibited in il-17r-deficient mice. a defect in ifn-gammar increased tumor growth  whereas tumor growth was inhibited in mice that were deficient in both il-17r and ifn-gammar compared with wild-type animals. further experiments showed that neutralization of il-17 by abs inhibited tumor growth in wild-type mice  whereas systemic administration of il-17 promoted tumor growth. the il-17r deficiency increased cd8 t cell infiltration  whereas it reduced the infiltration of myeloid-derived suppressor cells (mdscs) in tumors. in contrast  administration of il-17 inhibited cd8 t cell infiltration and increased mdscs in tumors. further analysis indicated that il-17 was required for the development and tumor-promoting activity of mdscs in tumor-bearing mice. these data demonstrate that il-17-mediated responses promote tumor development through the induction of tumor-promoting microenvironments at tumor sites. il-17-mediated regulation of mdscs is a primary mechanism for its tumor-promoting effects. the study provides novel insights into the role of il-17 in tumor development and has major implications for targeting il-17 in treatment of tumors.
3800,phylogenetic analysis of portuguese feline immunodeficiency virus sequences reveals high genetic diversity.,feline immunodeficiency virus (fiv) is a lentivirus responsible for an immunodeficiency like disease in domestic cats. based on the genetic diversity of the v3-v5 region of env gene fiv is divided in five phylogenetic subtypes (a  b  c  d and e) with a world-wide distribution. to understand the subtype diversity of fiv in portugal a serological survey was conducted during 1 year in the veterinary faculty hospital  lisbon  portugal to identify seropositive animals. two viral genomic regions were amplified by a nested pcr  sequenced and the phylogenetic relationships between 24 new portuguese fiv sequences and other previously published fiv isolates were assessed. the introduction of these sequences induced a subclustering in subtype b including most of the new portuguese sequences. moreover  a new cluster emerged  with two highly divergent new sequences that might represent a new subtype. the study of these new fiv isolates showed the presence in portugal of a unique viral population subclustering within subtype b and of sequences clearly divergent from the five known subtypes  providing a contribution for the understanding of fiv's genetic diversity.
3802,mass screening programmes and trends in cervical cancer in finland and the netherlands.,with respect to cervical cancer management  finland and the netherlands are comparable in relevant characteristics  e.g.  fertility rate  age-of-mother at first birth and a national screening programme for several years. the aim of this study is to compare trends in incidence of and mortality from cervical cancer in finland and the netherlands in relation to the introduction and intensity of the screening programmes. therefore  incidence and mortality rates were calculated using the cancer registries of finland and the netherlands. data on screening intensity were obtained from the finnish cancer registry and the dutch evaluation centre at erasmusmc-rotterdam. women aged 30-60 have been screened every 5 years  in finland since 1992 and in the netherlands since 1996. screening protocols for smear taking and referral to the gynaecologist are comparable. incidence and mortality rates have declined more in finland. in 2003  age-adjusted incidence and mortality in finland were 4.0 and 0.9 and in the netherlands 4.9 and 1.4 per 100 000 woman-years  respectively. excess smear use in the netherlands was estimated to be 24 per 1 000 women during a 5-year interval compared to 121 in finland. the decline in mortality in finland seems to be almost completely related to the screening programme whereas in the netherlands it was initially considered to be a natural decline. differences in risk factors might also play a role: the netherlands has higher population density and higher percentages of immigrants and (female) smokers. the greater excess smear use in finland might also have affected incidence.
3804,concomitant induction of cd4+ and cd8+ t cell responses in volunteers immunized with salmonella enterica serovar typhi strain cvd 908-htra.,type 1 cell-mediated immunity might play an important role in protection from typhoid fever. we evaluated whether immunization with salmonella enterica serovar typhi (s. typhi) strain cvd 908-htra (a delta aroc delta arod delta htra mutant)  a leading live oral typhoid vaccine candidate  elicits specific cd4(+) and cd8(+) s. typhi immune responses. potent ctl responses and ifn-gamma secretion by cd8(+) t cells were detected following immunization with cvd 908-htra in high (4.5 x 10(8) cfu) and low (5 x 10(7) cfu) dosages. s. typhi-specific ctl were observed in six of eight vaccinees (four high and two low dose) after immunization. mean increases in the frequency of ifn-gamma spot-forming cells (sfc) in the presence of s. typhi-infected targets were 221 +/- 41 sfc/10(6) pbmc and 233 +/- 87 sfc/10(6) pbmc  in the high and low dose groups  respectively. strong cd4(+) t cell responses were also observed. increases in the ifn-gamma production to soluble s. typhi flagella (stf) occurred in 82 and 38% of the volunteers who received the high and low doses  respectively. robust correlations were observed between volunteers that responded with ifn-gamma sfc to stimulation with s. typhi-infected cells and ifn-gamma released in response to stimulation with stf ags (r = 0.822  p < 0.001) and between ctl and ifn-gamma production to stf (r = 0.818  p = 0.013). these data demonstrating the concomitant induction of both cd4- and cd8-mediated cmi are consistent with a significant role for type 1 immunity in controlling typhoid infection and support the continuing evaluation of cvd 908-htra as a typhoid vaccine candidate.
3806,exercise-induced asthma: a practical guide to definitions  diagnosis  prevalence  and treatment.,exercise-induced asthma is defined as an intermittent narrowing of the airways  demonstrated by a decrease in some measure of flow  that the patient experiences as wheezing  chest tightness  coughing  and difficulty breathing that is triggered by exercise. exercise will trigger asthma in most individuals who have chronic asthma  as well as in some who do not otherwise have asthma. definitive diagnosis requires demonstration of a drop in flow rate  typically > or = 13-15% for forced expiratory volume in one second (fev1) and > or = 15-20% for peak expiratory flow rate (pefr)  after exercise  associated with symptoms. prevalence data indicate that this disorder is very common in those who participate in recreational sports as well as in highly competitive athletes  with at least 12-15% of unselected athletes having positive exercise challenges. treatment of exercise induced asthma involves use of nonpharmacological measures (such as the use of the refractory period after exercise and prewarming air) as well as use of medications (beta-agonists  cromolyn  and nedocromil). with treatment  those who suffer from exercise-induced asthma may be able to participate and compete at the highest levels of performance.
3808,g-quadruplexes significantly stimulate pif1 helicase-catalyzed duplex dna unwinding.,the evolutionarily conserved g-quadruplexes (g4s) are faithfully inherited and serve a variety of cellular functions such as telomere maintenance  gene regulation  dna replication initiation  and epigenetic regulation. different from the watson-crick base-pairing found in duplex dna  g4s are formed via hoogsteen base pairing and are very stable and compact dna structures. failure of untangling them in the cell impedes dna-based transactions and leads to genome instability. cells have evolved highly specific helicases to resolve g4 structures. we used a recombinant nuclear form of saccharomyces cerevisiae pif1 to characterize pif1-mediated dna unwinding with a substrate mimicking an ongoing lagging strand synthesis stalled by g4s  which resembles a replication origin and a g4-structured flap in okazaki fragment maturation. we find that the presence of g4 may greatly stimulate the pif1 helicase to unwind duplex dna. further studies reveal that this stimulation results from g4-enhanced pif1 dimerization  which is required for duplex dna unwinding. this finding provides new insights into the properties and functions of g4s. we discuss the observed activation phenomenon in relation to the possible regulatory role of g4s in the rapid rescue of the stalled lagging strand synthesis by helping the replicator recognize and activate the replication origin as well as by quickly removing the g4-structured flap during okazaki fragment maturation.
3810,direct isolation and identification of promoters in the human genome.,transcriptional regulatory elements play essential roles in gene expression during animal development and cellular response to environmental signals  but our knowledge of these regions in the human genome is limited despite the availability of the complete genome sequence. promoters mark the start of every transcript and are an important class of regulatory elements. a large  complex protein structure known as the pre-initiation complex (pic) is assembled on all active promoters  and the presence of these proteins distinguishes promoters from other sequences in the genome. using components of the pic as tags  we isolated promoters directly from human cells as protein-dna complexes and identified the resulting dna sequences using genomic tiling microarrays. our experiments in four human cell lines uncovered 252 pic-binding sites in 44 semirandomly selected human genomic regions comprising 1% (30 megabase pairs) of the human genome. nearly 72% of the identified fragments overlap or immediately flank 5' ends of known cdna sequences  while the remainder is found in other genomic regions that likely harbor putative promoters of unannotated transcripts. indeed  molecular analysis of the rna isolated from one cell line uncovered transcripts initiated from over half of the putative promoter fragments  and transient transfection assays revealed promoter activity for a significant proportion of fragments when they were fused to a luciferase reporter gene. these results demonstrate the specificity of a genome-wide analysis method for mapping transcriptional regulatory elements and also indicate that a small  yet significant number of human genes remains to be discovered.
3812,recurrent outbreaks of salmonella enteritidis infections in a texas restaurant: phage type 4 arrives in the united states.,in recent years infection caused by salmonella serotype enteritidis (se) phage type 4 has spread through europe but has been uncommon in the usa. the first recognized outbreak of this strain in the usa occurred in a chinese restaurant in ei paso  texas  in april 1993; no source was identified. in september 1993  a second outbreak caused by se phage type 4 was associated with the same restaurant. to determine the cause of the second outbreak  we compared food exposures of the 19 patients with that of two control groups. egg rolls were the only item significantly associated with illness in both analyses (first control group: odds ratio [or] 8.2  95% confidence interval [ci] 2.3-31.6; second control group: or 13.1  95% ci 2.1-97.0). retrospective analysis of the april outbreak also implicated egg rolls (or 32.4  95% ci 9.1-126.6). egg roll batter was made from pooled shell eggs and was left at room temperature throughout the day. these two outbreaks of se phage type 4 likely could have been prevented by using pasteurized eggs and safe food preparation practices.
3814,renal outcomes with telmisartan  ramipril  or both  in people at high vascular risk (the ontarget study): a multicentre  randomised  double-blind  controlled trial.,background angiotensin receptor blockers (arb) and angiotensin converting enzyme (ace) inhibitors are known to reduce proteinuria. their combination might be more effective than either treatment alone  but long-term data for comparative changes in renal function are not available. we investigated the renal effects of ramipril (an ace inhibitor)  telmisartan (an arb)  and their combination in patients aged 55 years or older with established atherosclerotic vascular disease or with diabetes with end-organ damage. methods the trial ran from 2001 to 2007. after a 3-week run-in period  25 620 participants were randomly assigned to ramipril 10 mg a day (n=8576)  telmisartan 80 mg a day (n=8542)  or to a combination of both drugs (n=8502; median follow-up was 56 months)  and renal function and proteinuria were measured. the primary renal outcome was a composite of dialysis  doubling of serum creatinine  and death. analysis was by intention to treat. this study is registered with clinicaltrials.gov  number nct00153101. findings 784 patients permanently discontinued randomised therapy during the trial because of hypotensive symptoms (406 on combination therapy  149 on ramipril  and 229 on telmisartan). the number of events for the composite primary outcome was similar for telmisartan (n=1147 [13.4%]) and ramipril (1150 [13.5%]; hazard ratio [hr] 1.00  95% ci 0.92-1.09)  but was increased with combination therapy (1233 [14.5%]; hr 1.09  1.01-1.18  p=0.037). the secondary renal outcome  dialysis or doubling of serum creatinine  was similar with telmisartan (189 [2.21%]) and ramipril (174 [2.03%]; hr 1.09  0.89-1.34) and more frequent with combination therapy (212 [2.49%]: hr 1.24  1.01-1.51  p=0.038). estimated glomerular filtration rate (egfr) declined least with ramipril compared with telmisartan (-2.82 [sd 17.2] ml/min/1.73 m(2)vs -4.12 [17.4]  p<0.0001) or combination therapy (-6.11 [17.9]  p<0.0001). the increase in urinary albumin excretion was less with telmisartan (p=0.004) or with combination therapy (p=0.001) than with ramipril. interpretation in people at high vascular risk  telmisartan's effects on major renal outcomes are similar to ramipril. although combination therapy reduces proteinuria to a greater extent than monotherapy  overall it worsens major renal outcomes.
3816,the three 'c' s of chromosome conformation capture: controls  controls  controls,transcription regulation in higher eukaryotes is controlled by regulatory elements such as enhancers that are recognized by transcription factors. in many cases regulatory elements can be located at distances up to several megabases from their target genes. recent evidence shows that long-range control of gene expression can be mediated through direct physical interactions between genes and these regulatory elements. such looping interactions can be detected using the chromosome conformation capture (3c) methodology. although 3c is experimentally straightforward  to draw meaningful conclusions one must carefully design 3c experiments and implement the conscientious use of controls. the general guidelines presented here should help experimental design and minimize misinterpretation of 3c experiments.
3818,neuron-specific expression of cuznsod prevents the loss of muscle mass and function that occurs in homozygous cuznsod-knockout mice.,deletion of copper-zinc superoxide dismutase (cuznsod) in sod1(-/-) mice leads to accelerated loss of muscle mass and force during aging  but the losses do not occur with muscle-specific deletion of cuznsod. to determine the role of motor neurons in the muscle decline  we generated transgenic sod1(-/-) mice in which cuznsod was expressed under control of the synapsin 1 promoter (syntgsod1(-/-) mice). syntgsod1(-/-) mice expressed cuznsod in brain  spinal cord  and peripheral nerve  but not in other tissues. sciatic nerve cuznsod content in syntgsod1(-/-) mice was ~20% that of control mice  but no reduction in muscle mass or isometric force was observed in syntgsod1(-/-) mice compared with control animals  whereas muscles of age-matched sod1(-/-) mice displayed 30-40% reductions in mass and force. in addition  increased oxidative damage and adaptations in stress responses observed in muscles of sod1(-/-) mice were absent in syntgsod1(-/-) mice  and degeneration of neuromuscular junction (nmj) structure and function occurred in sod1(-/-) mice but not in syntgsod1(-/-) mice. our data demonstrate that specific cuznsod expression in neurons is sufficient to preserve nmj and skeletal muscle structure and function in sod1(-/-) mice and suggest that redox homeostasis in motor neurons plays a key role in initiating sarcopenia during aging.
3820,tetraspanin 7 (tspan7) expression is upregulated in multiple myeloma patients and inhibits myeloma tumour development in vivo.,background increased expression of the tetraspanin tspan7 has been observed in a number of cancers; however  it is unclear how tspan7 plays a role in cancer progression. methods we investigated the expression of tspan7 in the haematological malignancy multiple myleoma (mm) and assessed the consequences of tspan7 expression in the adhesion  migration and growth of mm plasma cells (pc) in vitro and in bone marrow (bm) homing and tumour growth in vivo. finally  we characterised the association of tspan7 with cell surface partner molecules in vitro. results tspan7 was found to be highly expressed at the rna and protein level in cd138(+) mm pc from approximately 50% of mm patients. tspan7 overexpression in the murine myeloma cell line 5tgm1 significantly reduced tumour burden in 5tgm1/kalwrij mice 4 weeks after intravenous adminstration of 5tgm1 cells. while tspan7 overexpression did not affect cell proliferation in vitro  tspan7 increased 5tgm1 cell adhesion to bm stromal cells and transendothelial migration. in addition  tspan7 was found to associate with the molecular chaperone calnexin on the cell surface. conclusion these results suggest that elevated tspan7 may be associated with better outcomes for up to 50% of mm patients.
3822,wrn  the protein deficient in werner syndrome  plays a critical structural role in optimizing dna repair.,werner syndrome (ws) predisposes patients to cancer and premature aging  owing to mutations in wrn. the wrn protein is a recq-like helicase and is thought to participate in dna double-strand break (dsb) repair by non-homologous end joining (nhej) or homologous recombination (hr). it has been previously shown that non-homologous dna ends develop extensive deletions during repair in ws cells  and that this ws phenotype was complemented by wild-type (wt) wrn. wrn possesses both 3' --> 5' exonuclease and 3' --> 5' helicase activities. to determine the relative contributions of each of these distinct enzymatic activities to dsb repair  we examined nhej and hr in ws cells (wrn-/-) complemented with either wtwrn  exonuclease-defective wrn (e-)  helicase-defective wrn (h-) or exonuclease/helicase-defective wrn (e-h-). the single e-and h- mutants each partially complemented the nhej abnormality of wrn-/- cells. strikingly  the e-h- double mutant complemented the ws deficiency nearly as efficiently as did wtwrn. similarly  the double mutant complemented the moderate hr deficiency of ws cells nearly as well as did wtwrn  whereas the e- and h- single mutants increased hr to levels higher than those restored by either e-h- or wtwrn. these results suggest that balanced exonuclease and helicase activities of wrn are required for optimal hr. moreover  wrn appears to play a structural role  independent of its enzymatic activities  in optimizing hr and efficient nhej repair. another human recq helicase  blm  suppressed hr but had little or no effect on nhej  suggesting that mammalian recq helicases have distinct functions that can finely regulate recombination events.
3824,incidence of skin cancer after renal transplantation in the netherlands.,the incidence of squamous cell carcinoma (scc) and basal cell carcinoma (bcc) was analyzed separately in all 764 patients who received a renal allograft between 1966 and 1988 at the leiden university hospital. the mean follow-up period was 8.7 posttransplant years (range 1-21 years). during this time period 176 skin cancers were diagnosed in 47 patients. the overall risk to develop a first tumor increased from 10% after 10 years to 40% after 20 years of graft survival. the overall incidence of scc was 250 times higher and that of bcc 10 times higher when compared with the general dutch population. moreover the localization of sccs and bccs differed considerably. solar radiation is thought to be an important risk factor for the development of skin cancer. however  the occurrence of skin cancer in long-term graft survivors forms also a major problem in a country with a higher geographical latitude and a moderate amount of sun-exposure  such as the netherlands.
3826,hygiene hypothesis in inflammatory bowel disease: a critical review of the literature.,the hygiene hypothesis is thought to be a significant contributor to the growing incidence of inflammatory bowel disease (ibd) around the world  although the evidence for specific factors that underlie the hygiene hypothesis in ibd is unclear. we aimed to systematically review the literature to determine which hygiene-related factors are associated with the development of ibd. publications identified from a broad based medline and current contents search between 1966 and 2007 on key terms relevant to the 'hygiene hypothesis' and ibd including h pylori exposure  helminths  cold chain hypothesis  measles infection and vaccination  antibiotic use  breastfeeding  family size  sibship  urban upbringing  day care attendance and domestic hygiene were reviewed. the literature suggests that the hygiene hypothesis and its association with decreased microbial exposure in childhood probably plays an important role in the development of ibd  although the strength of the supporting data for each of the factors varies considerably. the most promising factors that may potentially be associated with development of ibd include h pylori exposure  helminths  breastfeeding and sibship. however  the vast majority of studies in this area are plagued by serious methodological shortcomings  particularly the reliance on retrospective recall of information making it difficult to truly ascertain the importance of a 'hygiene hypothesis' in ibd. the 'hygiene hypothesis' in ibd is an important area of research that may give clues to the aetiology of this disease. directions for future research are recommended.
3828,quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis of acquired cancer drug resistance to pazopanib and dasatinib,acquired drug resistance impacts the majority of patients being treated with tyrosine kinase inhibitors (tkis) and remains a key challenge in modern anti-cancer therapy. the lack of clinically effective therapies to overcome resistance represents an unmet need. understanding the signalling that drives drug resistance will facilitate the development of new salvage therapies to treat patients with secondary tki resistance. in this study  we utilise mass spectrometry to characterise the global phosphoproteomic alterations that accompany the acquisition of resistance to two fda-approved tkis  pazopanib and dasatinib  in the a204 rhabdoid tumour cell line. our analysis finds that only 6% and 9.7% of the quantified phosphoproteome is altered upon the acquisition of pazopanib and dasatinib resistance  respectively. pazopanib resistant cells display elevated phosphorylation in cytoskeletal regulatory pathways while dasatinib resistant cells show an upregulation of the insulin receptor/igf-1r signalling pathway. drug response profiling rediscovers several previously reported vulnerabilities associated with pazopanib and dasatinib resistance and identifies a new dependency to the second generation hsp90 inhibitor nvp-auy-922. this study provides a useful resource detailing the candidate signalling determinants of acquired tki resistance; and reveals a therapeutic approach of inhibiting hsp90 function as a means of salvage therapy to overcome pazopanib and dasatinib resistance. significance pazopanib and dasatinib are tyrosine kinase inhibitors (tkis) approved for the treatment of multiple cancer types. patients who are treated with these drugs are prone to the development of drug resistance and consequently tumour relapse. here we use quantitative phosphoproteomics to characterise the signalling pathways which are enriched in cells that have acquired resistance to these two drugs. furthermore  targeted drug screens were used to identify salvage therapies capable of overcoming pazopanib and dasatinib resistance. this data advances our understanding of the mechanisms of tki resistance and highlights candidate targets for cancer therapy.
3830,population genomics of the honey bee reveals strong signatures of positive selection on worker traits.,most theories used to explain the evolution of eusociality rest upon two key assumptions: mutations affecting the phenotype of sterile workers evolve by positive selection if the resulting traits benefit fertile kin  and that worker traits provide the primary mechanism allowing social insects to adapt to their environment. despite the common view that positive selection drives phenotypic evolution of workers  we know very little about the prevalence of positive selection acting on the genomes of eusocial insects. we mapped the footprints of positive selection in apis mellifera through analysis of 40 individual genomes  allowing us to identify thousands of genes and regulatory sequences with signatures of adaptive evolution over multiple timescales. we found apoidea- and apis-specific genes to be enriched for signatures of positive selection  indicating that novel genes play a disproportionately large role in adaptive evolution of eusocial insects. worker-biased proteins have higher signatures of adaptive evolution relative to queen-biased proteins  supporting the view that worker traits are key to adaptation. we also found genes regulating worker division of labor to be enriched for signs of positive selection. finally  genes associated with worker behavior based on analysis of brain gene expression were highly enriched for adaptive protein and cis-regulatory evolution. our study highlights the significant contribution of worker phenotypes to adaptive evolution in social insects  and provides a wealth of knowledge on the loci that influence fitness in honey bees.
3832,dasatinib inhibits both osteoclast activation and prostate cancer pc-3-cell-induced osteoclast formation.,purpose therapies to target prostate cancer bone metastases have only limited effects. new treatments are focused on the interaction between cancer cells  bone marrow cells and the bone matrix. osteoclasts play an important role in the development of bone tumors caused by prostate cancer. since src kinase has been shown to be necessary for osteoclast function  we hypothesized that dasatinib  a src family kinase inhibitor  would reduce osteoclast activity and prostate cancer (pc-3) cell-induced osteoclast formation. results dasatinib inhibited rankl-induced osteoclast differentiation of bone marrow-derived monocytes with an ec(50) of 7.5 nm. pc-3 cells  a human prostate cancer cell line  were able to differentiate raw 264.7 cells  a murine monocytic cell line  into osteoclasts  and dasatinib inhibited this differentiation. in addition  conditioned medium from pc-3 cell cultures was able to differentiate raw 264.7 cells into osteoclasts and this too  was inhibited by dasatinib. even the lowest concentration of dasatinib  1.25 nmol  inhibited osteoclast differentiation by 29%. moreover  dasatinib inhibited osteoclast activity by 58% as measured by collagen 1 release. experimental design we performed in vitro experiments utilizing the src family kinase inhibitor dasatinib to target osteoclast activation as a means of inhibiting prostate cancer bone metastases. conclusion dasatinib inhibits osteoclast differentiation of mouse primary bone marrow-derived monocytes and pc-3 cell-induced osteoclast differentiation. dasatinib also inhibits osteoclast degradation activity. inhibiting osteoclast differentiation and activity may be an effective targeted therapy in patients with prostate cancer bone metastases.
3834,increased release of ferritin and iron by iron-loaded alveolar macrophages in cigarette smokers.,the lower respiratory tract of cigarette smokers contains an increased amount of iron that is predominantly sequestered within alveolar macrophages (am)  but is also present in alveolar epithelial fluid. extracellular ferritin-bound iron could potentially be released by reductants present in cigarette smoke and catalyze generation of highly reactive hydroxyl radicals capable of causing oxidant injury. to determine whether am are a source of alveolar extracellular ferritin and iron  we assessed in vitro release of iron  ferritin  and transferrin by am recovered by bronchoalveolar lavage (bal) of 27 healthy subjects including nine nonsmokers (ns)  nine light smokers (ls)  and nine heavy smokers (hs). release of iron in vitro over 20 h was increased in am recovered from ls (2.24 +/- 0.21 nmol/10(6) am/20 h  p < 0.001) and hs (3.11 +/- 0.32 nmol/10(6) am  p < 0.001) compared with ns (1.28 +/- 0.08 nmol/10(6) am). release of ferritin in vitro over 20 h was also increased in am recovered from ls (71 +/- 24 ng/10(6) am  p < 0.05) and hs (176 +/- 35 ng/10(6)  p < 0.001) compared with ns (18 +/- 3 ng/10(6) am). am recovered from 12 smokers (8 hs  4 ls) contained greater than 10 nmol of iron per 10(6) cells. these iron-loaded am released a greater percentage of cell ferritin stores in vitro over 4 h (8.4% +/- 1.1  p < 0.01) than did am from ns (3.2% +/- 0.6). release of lactate dehydrogenase (ldh) over 4 h was substantially less (2.9% +/- 0.3  p < 0.001) than ferritin release.(abstract truncated at 250 words)
3836,prospective randomized open blinded end-point (probe) study. a novel design for intervention trials. prospective randomized open blinded end-point.,a novel design for intervention studies is presented  the so called probe study (prospective randomized open  blinded end-point). this design is compared to the classical double-blind design. among the advantages of the probe design are lower cost and greater similarity to standard clinical practice  which should make the results more easily applicable in routine medical care. since end-points are evaluated by a blinded end-point committee it is obvious that there should be no difference between the two types of trials in this regard.
3838,ligand binding determines whether cd46 is internalized by clathrin-coated pits or macropinocytosis.,cd46 is a ubiquitous human cell surface receptor for the complement components c3b and c4b and for various pathogens  including the measles virus and human herpes virus 6. ligand binding to cd46 affects (i) protection of autologous cells from complement attack by breakdown of complement components  (ii) intracellular signals that affect the regulation of immune cell function  (iii) antigen presentation  and (iv) down-regulation of cell surface cd46. recent evidence indicates that cd46 signaling can link innate and acquired immune function. the molecular mechanisms for these processes and the importance of intracellular trafficking of the receptor have not yet been elucidated. we demonstrate here that  in nonlymphoid cells  cd46 is constitutively internalized via clathrin-coated pits  traffics to multivesicular bodies  and is recycled to the cell surface. however  cross-linking of cd46 at the cell surface  by either multivalent antibody or by measles virus  induces pseudopodia that engulf the ligand in a process similar to macropinocytosis  and leads to the degradation of cell surface cd46. thus  we have elucidated two pathways for cd46 internalization  which are regulated by the valence of cross-linking of cd46 and which utilize either clathrin-coated pits or pseudopodial extension. this has important implications for cd46 signaling  antigen presentation  cd46 down-regulation  and engulfment of pathogens.
3840,patterns of age-specific mortality in children in endemic areas of sub-saharan africa.,understanding of the age- and season- dependence of malaria mortality is an important prerequisite for epidemiologic models of malaria immunity. however  most studies of malaria mortality have aggregated their results into broad age groups and across seasons  making it hard to predict the likely impact of interventions targeted at specific age groups of children. we present age-specific mortality rates for children aged < 15 years for the period of 2001-2005 in 7 demographic surveillance sites in areas of sub-saharan africa with stable endemic plasmodium falciparum malaria. we use verbal autopsies (vas) to estimate the proportion of deaths by age group due to malaria  and thus calculate malaria-specific mortality rates for each site  age-group  and month of the year. in all sites a substantial proportion of deaths (ranging from 20.1% in a mozambican site to 46.2% in a site in burkina faso) were attributed to malaria. the overall age patterns of malaria mortality were similar in the different sites. deaths in the youngest children (< 3 months old) were only rarely attributed to malaria  but in children over 1 year of age the proportion of deaths attributed to malaria was only weakly age-dependent. in most of the sites all-cause mortality rates peaked during the rainy season  but the strong seasonality in malaria transmission in these sites was not reflected in strong seasonality in the proportion of deaths attributed to malaria  except in the two sites in burkina faso. improvement in the specificity of malaria verbal autopsies would make it easier to interpret the age and season patterns in such data.
3842,the selectivity of beta-adrenoceptor antagonists on isoprenaline-induced changes in heart rate  blood pressure  soleus muscle contractility and airways function in anaesthetized cats.,the beta-adrenoceptor antagonist of propranolol  metoprolol  atenolol and butoxamine in anaesthetized cats has been measured and compared with the activity of four synthetic phenylethanolamine derivatives. the effects of isoprenaline on four parameters in the anaesthetized cat: heart rate  blood pressure  soleus muscle contractility and airway reactance  were measured and the modification of the isoprenaline dose-response relation by each of the antagonist drugs assessed. parallel shifts in log dose-response curves for isoprenaline were caused by propranolol for all parameters  by metoprolol and atenolol for each parameter except blood pressure  and butoxamine for each except soleus muscle and heart rate. selectivity of action of the antagonists between different organs was measured by comparing dr10 values  computed from isoprenaline dose-ratios. propranolol was the most potent antagonist and showed slight selectivity of action on soleus muscle compared with heart. atenolol and metoprolol were approximately equipotent and were cardioselective at low doses only. butoxamine was the least potent antagonist and possessed non-beta-adrenoceptor effects on the parameters measured. each of the new compounds  4'-bromo-2'-methoxy-n-isopropyl phenylethanolamine  the 4'-chloro- and 4'-methyl analogues  and 4'-methoxy-n-t-butyl phenylethanolamine  was a potent antagonist but did not exhibit any selectivity of action. the results suggest no clear separation of beta-adrenoceptors into beta 1- and beta 2-subclasses in organs of the cat. there is no apparent separation of beta-adrenoceptor-mediated effects on skeletal muscle and airways.
3844,dietary saturated and unsaturated fats as determinants of blood pressure and vascular function.,the amount and type of dietary fat have long been associated with the risk of cvd. arterial stiffness and endothelial dysfunction are important risk factors in the aetiology of chd. a range of methods exists to assess vascular function that may be used in nutritional science  including clinic and ambulatory blood pressure monitoring  pulse wave analysis  pulse wave velocity  flow-mediated dilatation and venous occlusion plethysmography. the present review focuses on the quantity and type of dietary fat and effects on blood pressure  arterial compliance and endothelial function. concerning fat quantity  the amount of dietary fat consumed habitually appears to have little influence on vascular function independent of fatty acid composition  although single high-fat meals postprandially impair endothelial function compared with low-fat meals. the mechanism is related to increased circulating lipoproteins and nefa which may induce pro-inflammatory pathways and increase oxidative stress. regarding the type of fat  cross-sectional data suggest that saturated fat adversely affects vascular function whereas polyunsaturated fat (mainly linoleic acid (18 : 2n-6) and n-3 pufa) are beneficial. epa (20 : 5n-3) and dha (22 : 6n-3) can reduce blood pressure  improve arterial compliance in type 2 diabetics and dyslipidaemics  and augment endothelium-dependent vasodilation. the mechanisms for this vascular protection  and the nature of the separate physiological effects induced by epa and dha  are priorities for future research. since good-quality observational or interventional data on dietary fatty acid composition and vascular function are scarce  no further recommendations can be suggested in addition to current guidelines at the present time.
3846,cns repair requires both effector and regulatory t cells with distinct temporal and spatial profiles.,monocyte-derived macrophages (mo-mφs) and t cells have been shown to contribute to spinal cord repair. recently  the remote brain choroid plexus epithelium (cp) was identified as a portal for monocyte recruitment  and its activation for leukocyte trafficking was found to be ifn-γ-dependent. here  we addressed how the need for effector t cells can be reconciled with the role of inflammation-resolving immune cells in the repair process. using an acute spinal cord injury model  we show that in mice deficient in ifn-γ-producing t cells  the cp was not activated  and recruitment of inflammation-resolving mo-mφ to the spinal cord parenchyma was limited. we further demonstrate that mo-mφ locally regulated recruitment of thymic-derived foxp3(+) regulatory t (treg) cells to the injured spinal cord parenchyma at the subacute/chronic phase. importantly  an ablation protocol that resulted in reduced tregs at this stage interfered with tissue remodeling  in contrast to treg transient ablation  restricted to the 4 d period before the injury  which favored repair. the enhanced functional recovery observed following such a controlled decrease of tregs suggests that reduced systemic immunosuppression at the time of the insult can enhance cns repair. overall  our data highlight a dynamic immune cell network needed for repair  acting in discrete compartments and stages  and involving effector and regulatory t cells  interconnected by mo-mφ. any of these populations may be detrimental to the repair process if their level or activity become dysregulated. accordingly  therapeutic interventions must be both temporally and spatially controlled.
3848,isolation and characterization of the cdna encoding bklf/tef-2  a major caccc-box-binding protein in erythroid cells and selected other cells.,caccc boxes are among the critical sequences present in regulatory elements of genes expressed in erythroid cells  as well as in selected other cell types. while an erythroid cell-specific caccc-box-binding protein  eklf  has been shown to be required in vivo for proper expression of the adult beta-globin gene  it is dispensable for the regulation of several other globin and nonglobin erythroid cell-expressed genes. in the work described here  we searched for additional caccc-box transcription factors that might be active in murine erythroid cells. we identified a major gel shift activity (termed bklf)  present in yolk sac and fetal liver erythroid cells  that could be distinguished from eklf by specific antisera. through relaxed-stringency hybridization  we obtained the cdna encoding bklf  a highly basic  novel zinc finger protein that is related to eklf and other krüppel-like members in its dna-binding domain but unrelated elsewhere. bklf  which is widely but not ubiquitously expressed in cell lines  is highly expressed in the midbrain region of embryonic mice and appears to correspond to the gel shift activity tef-2  a transcriptional activator implicated in regulation of the simian virus 40 enhancer and other caccc-box-containing regulatory elements. because bklf binds with high affinity and preferentially over sp1 to many caccc sequences of erythroid cell expressed genes  it is likely to participate in the control of many genes whose expression appears independent of the action of eklf.
3850,islet1 deletion causes kidney agenesis and hydroureter resembling cakut.,islet1 (isl1) is a transcription factor transiently expressed in a subset of heart and limb progenitors. during studies of limb development  conditional isl1 deletion produced unexpected kidney abnormalities. here  we studied the renal expression of isl1 and whether it has a role in kidney development. in situ hybridization revealed isl1 expression in the mesenchymal cells surrounding the base of the ureteric bud in mice. conditional deletion of isl1 caused kidney agenesis or hypoplasia and hydroureter  a phenotype resembling human congenital anomalies of the kidney and urinary tract (cakut). the absence of isl1 led to ectopic branching of the ureteric bud out from the nephric duct or to the formation of accessory buds  both of which could lead to obstruction of the ureter-bladder junction and consequent hydroureter. the abnormal elongation and poor branching of the ureteric buds were the likely causes of the kidney agenesis or hypoplasia. furthermore  the lack of isl1 reduced the expression of bmp4  a gene implicated in the cakut-like phenotype  in the metanephric region before ureteric budding. in conclusion  isl1 is essential for proper development of the kidney and ureter by repressing the aberrant formation of the ureteric bud. these observations call for further studies to investigate whether isl1 may be a causative gene for human cakut.
3852,crystal structures of the glutamate receptor ion channel gluk3 and gluk5 amino-terminal domains.,ionotropic glutamate receptors (iglurs) mediate the majority of fast excitatory synaptic neurotransmission in the central nervous system. the selective assembly of iglurs into ampa  kainate  and n-methyl-d-aspartic acid (nmda) receptor subtypes is regulated by their extracellular amino-terminal domains (atds). kainate receptors are further classified into low-affinity receptor families (gluk1-gluk3) and high-affinity receptor families (gluk4-gluk5) based on their affinity for the neurotoxin kainic acid. these two families share a 42% sequence identity for the intact receptor but only a 27% sequence identity at the level of atd. we have determined for the first time the high-resolution crystal structures of gluk3 and gluk5 atds  both of which crystallize as dimers but with a strikingly different dimer assembly at the r1 interface. by contrast  for both gluk3 and gluk5  the r2 domain dimer assembly is similar to those reported previously for other non-nmda iglurs. this observation is consistent with the reports that gluk4-gluk5 cannot form functional homomeric ion channels and require obligate coassembly with gluk1-gluk3. our analysis also reveals that the relative orientation of domains r1 and r2 in individual non-nmda receptor atds varies by up to 10°  in contrast to the 50° difference reported for the nmda receptor glun2b subunit. this restricted domain movement in non-nmda receptor atds seems to result both from extensive intramolecular contacts between domain r1 and domain r2 and from their assembly as dimers  which interact at both r1 and r2 domains. our results provide the first insights into the structure and function of gluk4-gluk5  the least understood family of iglurs.
3854,protein interaction network of the mammalian hippo pathway reveals mechanisms of kinase-phosphatase interactions.,the hippo pathway regulates organ size and tissue homeostasis in response to multiple stimuli  including cell density and mechanotransduction. pharmacological inhibition of phosphatases can also stimulate hippo signaling in cell culture. we defined the hippo protein-protein interaction network with and without inhibition of serine and threonine phosphatases by okadaic acid. we identified 749 protein interactions  including 599 previously unrecognized interactions  and demonstrated that several interactions with serine and threonine phosphatases were phosphorylation-dependent. mutation of the t-loop of mst2 (mammalian ste20-like protein kinase 2)  which prevented autophosphorylation  disrupted its association with stripak (striatin-interacting phosphatase and kinase complex). deletion of the amino-terminal forkhead-associated domain of slmap (sarcolemmal membrane-associated protein)  a component of the stripak complex  prevented its association with mst1 and mst2. phosphatase inhibition produced temporally distinct changes in proteins that interacted with mob1a and mob1b (mps one binder kinase activator-like 1a and 1b) and promoted interactions with upstream hippo pathway proteins  such as mst1 and mst2  and with the trimeric protein phosphatase 6 complex (pp6). mutation of three basic amino acids that are part of a phospho-serine- and phospho-threonine-binding domain in human mob1b prevented its interaction with mst1 and pp6 in cells treated with okadaic acid. collectively  our results indicated that changes in phosphorylation orchestrate interactions between kinases and phosphatases in hippo signaling  providing a putative mechanism for pathway regulation.
3856,induction of ampk activity corrects early pathophysiological alterations in the subtotal nephrectomy model of chronic kidney disease.,the rat kidney ablation and infarction (a/i) model of subtotal or 5/6th nephrectomy is the most commonly studied model of nondiabetic chronic kidney disease (ckd). the a/i kidney at 1 wk exhibits reductions in kidney function  as determined by glomerular filtration rate  and diminished metabolic efficiency as determined by oxygen consumption per sodium transport (qo2/tna). as renoprotective ampk activity is affected by metabolic changes and cellular stress  we evaluated ampk activity in this model system. we show that these early pathophysiological changes are accompanied by a paradoxical decrease in ampk activity. over time  these kidney parameters progressively worsen with extensive kidney structural  functional  metabolic  and fibrotic changes observed at 4 wk after a/i. we show that induction of ampk activity with either metformin or 5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide ribonucleotide increases ampk activity in this model and also corrects kidney metabolic inefficiency  improves kidney function  and ameliorates kidney fibrosis and structural alterations. we conclude that ampk activity is reduced in the subtotal nephrectomy model of nondiabetic ckd  that altered regulation of ampk is coincident with the progression of disease parameters  and that restoration of ampk activity can suppress the progressive loss of function characteristic of this model. we propose that induction of ampk activity may prove an effective therapeutic target for the treatment of nondiabetic ckd.
3858,differential role of cbpa and pspa in modulation of in vitro cxc chemokine responses of respiratory epithelial cells to infection with streptococcus pneumoniae.,respiratory epithelial cells play an active part in the host response to respiratory pathogens  such as streptococcus pneumoniae  by releasing chemokines responsible for neutrophil recruitment. in order to investigate the role of specific pneumococcal virulence factors in eliciting cxc chemokine responses  type ii pneumocytes (a549) and nasopharyngeal cells (detroit-562) were infected with s. pneumoniae d39 or mutants lacking choline-binding protein a (cbpa)  pneumococcal surface protein a (pspa)  or specific domains thereof. in response to wild-type d39  both a549 and detroit-562 cells showed a significant increase in cxc chemokine mrna and interleukin-8 protein. this response was increased twofold when a cbpa deletion mutant (deltacbpa) was used  suggesting that cbpa inhibits cxc chemokine induction. all three n-terminal domains of cbpa are required for this effect  as in-frame deletion of the respective region of cbpa had the same effect on the cxc chemokine response as deletion of cbpa altogether. infection with a pspa deletion mutant (deltapspa) led to a twofold decrease in the cxc chemokine response of a549 but not detroit-562 cells  compared to infection with d39 at 2 h. thus  pspa appears to have the ability to stimulate early cxc chemokine release from a549 cells. deletion of the region of pspa encoding the first n-terminal alpha-helical domain reduced the ability of s. pneumoniae to elicit a chemokine response to the same degree as deletion of pspa altogether. thus  the n termini of cbpa and pspa exert differential effects on cxc chemokine induction in epithelial cells infected with s. pneumoniae.
3860,safety and efficacy of rnai therapy for transthyretin amyloidosis.,background transthyretin amyloidosis is caused by the deposition of hepatocyte-derived transthyretin amyloid in peripheral nerves and the heart. a therapeutic approach mediated by rna interference (rnai) could reduce the production of transthyretin. methods we identified a potent antitransthyretin small interfering rna  which was encapsulated in two distinct first- and second-generation formulations of lipid nanoparticles  generating aln-ttr01 and aln-ttr02  respectively. each formulation was studied in a single-dose  placebo-controlled phase 1 trial to assess safety and effect on transthyretin levels. we first evaluated aln-ttr01 (at doses of 0.01 to 1.0 mg per kilogram of body weight) in 32 patients with transthyretin amyloidosis and then evaluated aln-ttr02 (at doses of 0.01 to 0.5 mg per kilogram) in 17 healthy volunteers. results rapid  dose-dependent  and durable lowering of transthyretin levels was observed in the two trials. at a dose of 1.0 mg per kilogram  aln-ttr01 suppressed transthyretin  with a mean reduction at day 7 of 38%  as compared with placebo (p=0.01); levels of mutant and nonmutant forms of transthyretin were lowered to a similar extent. for aln-ttr02  the mean reductions in transthyretin levels at doses of 0.15 to 0.3 mg per kilogram ranged from 82.3 to 86.8%  with reductions of 56.6 to 67.1% at 28 days (p<0.001 for all comparisons). these reductions were shown to be rnai-mediated. mild-to-moderate infusion-related reactions occurred in 20.8% and 7.7% of participants receiving aln-ttr01 and aln-ttr02  respectively. conclusions aln-ttr01 and aln-ttr02 suppressed the production of both mutant and nonmutant forms of transthyretin  establishing proof of concept for rnai therapy targeting messenger rna transcribed from a disease-causing gene. (funded by alnylam pharmaceuticals; clinicaltrials.gov numbers  nct01148953 and nct01559077.).
3862,thiazolidinediones improve beta-cell function in type 2 diabetic patients.,thiazolidinediones (tzds) improve glycemic control and insulin sensitivity in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (t2dm). there is growing evidence from in vivo and in vitro studies that tzds improve pancreatic beta-cell function. the aim of this study was to determine whether tzd-induced improvement in glycemic control is associated with improved beta-cell function. we studied 11 normal glucose-tolerant and 53 t2dm subjects [age 53+/-2 yr; bmi 29.4+/-0.8 kg/m2; fasting plasma glucose (fpg) 10.3+/-0.4 mm; hb a1c 8.2+/-0.3%]. diabetic patients were randomized to receive placebo or tzd for 4 mo. subjects received 1) 2-h ogtt with determination of plasma glucose  insulin  and c-peptide concentrations and 2) two-step euglycemic insulin (40 and 160 mu.m-2.min-1) clamp with [3-(3)h]glucose. t2dm patients were then randomized to receive 4 mo of treatment with pioglitazone (45 mg/day)  rosiglitazone (8 mg/day)  or placebo. pioglitazone and rosiglitazone similarly improved fpg  mean plasma glucose during ogtt  hb a1c  and insulin-mediated total body glucose disposal (rd) and decreased mean plasma ffa during ogtt (all p<0.01  anova). the insulin secretion/insulin resistance (disposition) index [deltaisr(auc)/deltaglucose(auc)/ir] was significantly improved in all tzd-treated groups: +1.8+/-0.7 (pio+drug-naïve diabetics)  +0.7+/-0.3 (pio+sulfonylurea-treated diabetics)  and 0.7+/-0.2 (rosi+sulfonylurea-withdrawn diabetics) vs. -0.2+/-0.3 in the two placebo groups (p<0.01  all tzds vs. placebo  anova). improved insulin secretion correlated positively with increased body weight  fat mass  and rd and inversely with decreased plasma glucose and ffa during the ogtt. in t2dm patients  tzd treatment leads to improved beta-cell function  which correlates strongly with improved glycemic control.
3864,association of sickle cell trait with hemoglobin a1c in african americans,importance hemoglobin a1c (hba1c) reflects past glucose concentrations  but this relationship may differ between those with sickle cell trait (sct) and those without it. objective to evaluate the association between sct and hba1c for given levels of fasting or 2-hour glucose levels among african americans. design  setting  and participants retrospective cohort study using data collected from 7938 participants in 2 community-based cohorts  the coronary artery risk development in young adults (cardia) study and the jackson heart study (jhs). from the cardia study  2637 patients contributed a maximum of 2 visits (2005-2011); from the jhs  5301 participants contributed a maximum of 3 visits (2000-2013). all visits were scheduled at approximately 5-year intervals. participants without sct data  those without any concurrent hba1c and glucose measurements  and those with hemoglobin variants hbss  hbcc  or hbac were excluded. analysis of the primary outcome was conducted using generalized estimating equations (gee) to examine the association of sct with hba1c levels  controlling for fasting or 2-hour glucose measures. exposures presence of sct. main outcomes and measures hemoglobin a1c stratified by the presence or absence of sct was the primary outcome measure. results the analytic sample included 4620 participants (mean age  52.3 [sd  11.8] years; 2835 women [61.3%]; 367 [7.9%] with sct) with 9062 concurrent measures of fasting glucose and hba1c levels. in unadjusted gee analyses  for a given fasting glucose  hba1c values were statistically significantly lower in those with (5.72%) vs those without (6.01%) sct (mean hba1c difference  −0.29%; 95% ci  −0.35% to −0.23%). findings were similar in models adjusted for key risk factors and in analyses using 2001 concurrent measures of 2-hour glucose and hba1c concentration for those with sct (mean  5.35%) vs those without sct (mean  5.65%) for a mean hba1c difference of −0.30% (95% ci  −0.39% to −0.21%). the hba1c difference by sct was greater at higher fasting (p = .02 for interaction) and 2-hour (p = .03) glucose concentrations. the prevalence of prediabetes and diabetes was statistically significantly lower among participants with sct when defined using hba1c values (29.2% vs 48.6% for prediabetes and 3.8% vs 7.3% for diabetes in 572 observations from participants with sct and 6877 observations from participants without sct; p<.001 for both comparisons). conclusions and relevance among african americans from 2 large  well-established cohorts  participants with sct had lower levels of hba1c at any given concentration of fasting or 2-hour glucose compared with participants without sct. these findings suggest that hba1c may systematically underestimate past glycemia in black patients with sct and may require further evaluation.
3866,screening for lung cancer: u.s. preventive services task force recommendation statement,the u.s. preventive services task force (uspstf) makes recommendations about the effectiveness of specific preventive care services for patients without related signs or symptoms. it bases its recommendations on the evidence of both the benefits and harms of the service and an assessment of the balance. the uspstf does not consider the costs of providing a service in this assessment. the uspstf recognizes that clinical decisions involve more considerations than evidence alone. clinicians should understand the evidence but individualize decision making to the specific patient or situation. similarly  the uspstf notes that policy and coverage decisions involve considerations in addition to the evidence of clinical benefits and harms. summary of recommendation and evidence the uspstf recommends annual screening for lung cancer with low-dose computed tomography (ldct) in adults aged 55 to 80 years who have a 30 pack-year smoking history and currently smoke or have quit within the past 15 years. screening should be discontinued once a person has not smoked for 15 years or develops a health problem that substantially limits life expectancy or the ability or willingness to have curative lung surgery. (b recommendation) see the clinical considerations section for suggestions for implementation in practice. see the figure for a summary of the recommendation and suggestions for clinical practice. figure. screening for lung cancer: clinical summary of u.s. preventive services task force recommendation. appendix table 1 describes the uspstf grades  and appendix table 2 describes the uspstf classification of levels of certainty about net benefit. appendix table 1. what the uspstf grades mean and suggestions for practice appendix table 2. uspstf levels of certainty regarding net benefit supplement. consumer fact sheet. rationale importance lung cancer is the third most common cancer and the leading cause of cancer-related death in the united states (1). the most important risk factor for lung cancer is smoking  which results in approximately 85% of all u.s. lung cancer cases (2). although the prevalence of smoking has decreased  approximately 37% of u.s. adults are current or former smokers (2). the incidence of lung cancer increases with age and occurs most commonly in persons aged 55 years or older. increasing age and cumulative exposure to tobacco smoke are the 2 most common risk factors for lung cancer. lung cancer has a poor prognosis  and nearly 90% of persons with lung cancer die of the disease. however  early-stage nonsmall cell lung cancer (nsclc) has a better prognosis and can be treated with surgical resection. detection most lung cancer cases are nsclc  and most screening programs focus on the detection and treatment of early-stage nsclc. although chest radiography and sputum cytologic evaluation have been used to screen for lung cancer  ldct has greater sensitivity for detecting early-stage cancer (3). benefits of detection and early treatment although lung cancer screening is not an alternative to smoking cessation  the uspstf found adequate evidence that annual screening for lung cancer with ldct in a defined population of high-risk persons can prevent a substantial number of lung cancerrelated deaths. direct evidence from a large  well-conducted  randomized  controlled trial (rct) provides moderate certainty of the benefit of lung cancer screening with ldct in this population (4). the magnitude of benefit to the person depends on that person's risk for lung cancer because those who are at highest risk are most likely to benefit. screening cannot prevent most lung cancerrelated deaths  and smoking cessation remains essential. harms of detection and early intervention and treatment the harms associated with ldct screening include false-negative and false-positive results  incidental findings  overdiagnosis  and radiation exposure. false-positive ldct results occur in a substantial proportion of screened persons; 95% of all positive results do not lead to a diagnosis of cancer. in a high-quality screening program  further imaging can resolve most false-positive results; however  some patients may require invasive procedures. the uspstf found insufficient evidence on the harms associated with incidental findings. overdiagnosis of lung cancer occurs  but its precise magnitude is uncertain. a modeling study performed for the uspstf estimated that 10% to 12% of screen-detected cancer cases are overdiagnosedthat is  they would not have been detected in the patient's lifetime without screening. radiation harms  including cancer resulting from cumulative exposure to radiation  vary depending on the age at the start of screening; the number of scans received; and the person's exposure to other sources of radiation  particularly other medical imaging. uspstf assessment the uspstf concludes with moderate certainty that annual screening for lung cancer with ldct is of moderate net benefit in asymptomatic persons who are at high risk for lung cancer based on age  total cumulative exposure to tobacco smoke  and years since quitting smoking. the moderate net benefit of screening depends on limiting screening to persons who are at high risk  the accuracy of image interpretation being similar to that found in the nlst (national lung screening trial)  and the resolution of most false-positive results without invasive procedures (4). clinical considerations patient population under consideration the risk for lung cancer increases with age and cumulative exposure to tobacco smoke and decreases with time since quitting smoking. the best evidence for the benefit of screening comes from the nlst  which enrolled adults aged 55 to 74 years who had at least a 30 pack-year smoking history and were current smokers or had quit within the past 15 years. as with all screening trials  the nlst tested a specific intervention over a finite period. because initial eligibility extended through age 74 years and participants received 3 annual screening computed tomographic scans  the oldest participants in the trial were aged 77 years. the uspstf used modeling studies to predict the benefits and harms of screening programs that use different screening intervals  age ranges  smoking histories  and times since quitting. a program that annually screens adults aged 55 to 80 years who have a 30 pack-year smoking history and currently smoke or have quit within the past 15 years is projected to have a reasonable balance of benefits and harms. the model assumes that persons who achieve 15 years of smoking cessation during the screening program discontinue screening. this model predicts the outcomes of continuing the screening program used in the nlst through age 80 years. screening may not be appropriate for patients with substantial comorbid conditions  particularly those at the upper end of the screening age range. the nlst excluded persons who were unlikely to complete curative lung cancer surgery and those with medical conditions that posed a substantial risk for death during the 8-year trial. the baseline characteristics of the nlst showed a relatively healthy sample  and fewer than 10% of enrolled participants were older than 70 years (5). persons with serious comorbid conditions may experience net harm  no net benefit  or at least substantially less net benefit. similarly  persons who are unwilling to have curative lung surgery are unlikely to benefit from a screening program. assessment of risk age  total exposure to tobacco smoke  and years since quitting smoking are important risk factors for lung cancer and were used to determine eligibility in the nlst. other risk factors include specific occupational exposures  radon exposure  family history  and history of pulmonary fibrosis or chronic obstructive lung disease. the incidence of lung cancer is relatively low in persons younger than 50 years but increases with age  especially after age 60 years. in current and former smokers  age-specific incidence rates increase with age and cumulative exposure to tobacco smoke. smoking cessation substantially reduces a person's risk for developing and dying of lung cancer. among persons enrolled in the nlst  those who were at highest risk because of additional risk factors or a greater cumulative exposure to tobacco smoke experienced most of the benefit (6). a validated multivariate model showed that persons in the highest 60% of risk accounted for 88% of all deaths preventable by screening. screening tests low-dose computed tomography has shown high sensitivity and acceptable specificity for the detection of lung cancer in high-risk persons. chest radiography and sputum cytologic evaluation have not shown adequate sensitivity or specificity as screening tests. therefore  ldct is currently the only recommended screening test for lung cancer. treatment surgical resection is the current standard of care for localized nsclc. this type of cancer is treated with surgical resection when possible and also with radiation and chemotherapy. annual ldct screening may not be useful for patients with life-limiting comorbid conditions or poor functional status who may not be candidates for surgery. other approaches to prevention smoking cessation is the most important intervention to prevent nsclc. advising smokers to stop smoking and preventing nonsmokers from being exposed to tobacco smoke are the most effective ways to decrease the morbidity and mortality associated with lung cancer. current smokers should be informed of their continuing risk for lung cancer and offered cessation treatments. screening with ldct should be viewed as an adjunct to tobacco cessation interventions. useful resources clinicians have many resources to help patients stop smoking. the centers for disease control and prevention has developed a web site with many such resources  including information on tobacco quit lines  available in several languages (www.cdc.gov/tobacco/campaign/tips). quit l
3868,latent membrane protein 1 of epstein–barr virus coordinately regulates proliferation with control of apoptosis,latent membrane protein 1 (lmp1)  an oncoprotein encoded by epstein–barr virus (ebv)  is an integral membrane protein  which acts like a constitutively active receptor. lmp1 is critical for some facet of ebv's induction and maintenance of proliferation of infected b cells. it  in part  mimics signaling by the cd40 receptor and has been implicated in regulating proliferation  survival  or both properties of ebv-infected cells. we established a conditional lmp1 allele in the context of the intact ebv genome to define the immediate-early cellular target genes regulated by lmp1 in order to assess its contributions to infected human b cells. the functional analysis of this conditional system indicated that lmp1 specifically induces mitogenic b-cell activation through c-myc and jun/ap1 family members and confirms its direct role in upregulating expression of multiple genes with opposing activities involved in cell survival. lmp1's signals were found to be essential for the g1/s transition in human b cells; cells lacking lmp1's signals are cell cycle arrested and survive quiescently. lmp1's activities are therefore not required to maintain survival in nonproliferating cells. lmp1 does induce both pro- and antiapoptotic genes whose balance seems to permit survival during lmp1's induction and maintenance of proliferation.
3870,the s. cerevisiae rrm3p dna helicase moves with the replication fork and affects replication of all yeast chromosomes.,the saccharomyces cerevisiae dna helicase rrm3p is needed for normal fork progression through >1000 discrete sites scattered throughout the genome. here we show that replication of all yeast chromosomes was markedly delayed in rrm3 cells. delayed replication was seen even in a region that lacks any predicted rrm3p-dependent sites. based on the pattern of replication intermediates in two-dimensional gels  the rate of fork movement in rrm3 cells appeared similar to wild-type except at known rrm3p-dependent sites. these data suggest that although rrm3p has a global role in dna replication  its activity is needed only or primarily at specific  difficult-to-replicate sites. by the criterion of chromatin immunoprecipitation  rrm3p was associated with both rrm3p-dependent and -independent sites  and moved with the replication fork through both. in addition  rrm3p interacted with pol2p  the catalytic subunit of dna polymerase epsilon  in vivo. thus  rather than being recruited to its sites of action when replication forks stall at these sites  rrm3p is likely a component of the replication fork apparatus.
3872,effects of aging on central and peripheral mammalian clocks.,circadian organization changes with age  but we do not know the extent to which age-related changes are the result of alterations in the central pacemakers  the peripheral oscillators  or the coupling mechanisms that hold the system together. by using transgenic rats with a luciferase (luc) reporter  we assessed the effects of aging on the rhythm of expression of the period 1 (per1) gene in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (scn) and in peripheral tissues. young (2 months) and aged (24-26 months) per1-luc transgenic rats  entrained to light-dark cycles  were killed  and tissues were removed and cultured. per1-luc expression was measured from 10 tissues. in the scn  the central mammalian pacemaker  per1-luc expression was robustly rhythmic for more than 7 weeks in culture. the only difference between scn rhythmicity in young and old rats was a small but significant age-related shortening of the free-running period. circadian rhythmicity in some peripheral tissues was unaffected by aging  whereas rhythmicity in other tissues was either phase advanced relative to the light cycle or absent. those tissues that were arrhythmic could be induced to oscillate by application of forskolin  suggesting that they retained the capacity to oscillate but were not being appropriately driven in vivo. overall  the results provide new insights into the effects of aging on the mammalian circadian system. aging seems to affect rhythms in some but not in all tissues and may act primarily on interactions among circadian oscillators  perhaps attenuating the ability of the scn to drive damped oscillators in the periphery.
3874,influenza a myocarditis developing in an adult liver transplant recipient despite vaccination: a case report and review of the literature.,solid organ transplant recipients receiving chronic immunosuppressive agents are at increased risk to acquire influenza virus despite vaccination. myocarditis is a known but rare complication of influenza infection. we present the first adult liver transplant recipient who received prophylactic vaccination but developed influenza a myocarditis. this may occur in solid organ transplant recipients  because they have reduced response to protein vaccines  which may leave them vulnerable to infections. studies are needed to evaluate if antiviral chemoprophylaxis in solid organ transplant recipients during influenza season would be an effective preventive therapy against influenza in this high-risk population.
3876,cleavage efficient 2a peptides for high level monoclonal antibody expression in cho cells.,linking the heavy chain (hc) and light chain (lc) genes required for monoclonal antibodies (mab) production on a single cassette using 2a peptides allows control of lc and hc ratio and reduces non-expressing cells. four 2a peptides derived from the foot-and-mouth disease virus (f2a)  equine rhinitis a virus (e2a)  porcine teschovirus-1 (p2a) and thosea asigna virus (t2a)  respectively  were compared for expression of 3 biosimilar igg1 mabs in chinese hamster ovary (cho) cell lines. hc and lc were linked by different 2a peptides both in the absence and presence of gsg linkers. insertion of a furin recognition site upstream of 2a allowed removal of 2a residues that would otherwise be attached to the hc. different 2a peptides exhibited different cleavage efficiencies that correlated to the mab expression level. the relative cleavage efficiency of each 2a peptide remains similar for expression of different igg1 mabs in different cho cells. while complete cleavage was not observed for any of the 2a peptides  gsg linkers did enhance the cleavage efficiency and thus the mab expression level. t2a with the gsg linker (gt2a) exhibited the highest cleavage efficiency and mab expression level. stably amplified cho dg44 pools generated using gt2a had titers 357  416 and 600 mg/l for the 3 mabs in shake flask batch cultures. incomplete cleavage likely resulted in incorrectly processed mab species and aggregates  which were removed with a chromatin-directed clarification method and protein a purification. the vector and methods presented provide an easy process beneficial for both mab development and manufacturing.
3878,maximal aerobic capacity in african-american and caucasian prepubertal children.,the purpose of this study was to examine differences in resting  submaximal  and maximal (vo2max) oxygen consumption (vo2) in african-american (n = 44) and caucasian (n = 31) prepubertal children aged 5-10 yr. resting vo2 was measured via indirect calorimetry in the fasted state. submaximal vo2 and vo2max were determined during an all out  progressive treadmill exercise test appropriate for children. dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry was used to determine total fat mass (fm)  soft lean tissue mass (ltm)  and leg soft ltm. doubly labeled water was used to determine total energy expenditure (tee) and activity energy expenditure (aee). a significant effect of ethnicity (p < 0.01) was found for vo2max but not resting or submaximal vo2  with african-american children having absolute vo2max approximately 15% lower than caucasian children (1.21 +/- 0.032 vs. 1.43 +/- 0.031 l/min  respectively). the lower vo2max persisted in african-american children after adjustment for soft ltm (1.23 +/- 0.025 vs. 1.39 +/- 0.031 l/min; p < 0.01)  leg soft ltm (1.20 +/- 0.031 vs. 1.43 +/- 0.042 l/min; p < 0.01)  and soft ltm and fm (1.23 +/- 0.025 vs. 1.39 +/- 0.031 l/min; p < 0.01). the lower vo2max persisted also after adjustment for tee (1.20 +/- 0.02 vs. 1.38 +/- 0.0028 l/min p < 0.001) and aee (1.20 +/- 0.024 vs. 1.38 +/- 0.028 l/min; p < 0.001). in conclusion  our data indicate that african-american and caucasian children have similar rates of vo2 at rest and during submaximal exercise  but vo2max is approximately 15% lower in african-american children  independent of soft ltm  fm  leg ltm  tee  and aee.
3880,the different biological effects of telomestatin and tmpyp4 can be attributed to their selectivity for interaction with intramolecular or intermolecular g-quadruplex structures.,demonstration of the existence of g-quadruplex structures in telomeres of stylonychia macronuclei and in the promoter of c-myc in human cells has validated these secondary dna structures as potential targets for drug design. the next important issue is the selectivity of g-quadruplex-interactive agents for the different types of g-quadruplex structures. in this study  we have taken an important step in associating specific biological effects of these drugs with selective interaction with either intermolecular or intramolecular g-quadruplex structures formed in telomeres. telomestatin is a natural product isolated from streptomyces anulatus 3533-sv4 and has been shown to be a very potent telomerase inhibitor through its g-quadruplex interaction. we have demonstrated that telomestatin interacts preferentially with intramolecular versus intermolecular g-quadruplex structures and also has a 70-fold selectivity for intramolecular g-quadruplex structures over duplex dna. telomestatin is able to stabilize g-quadruplex structures that are formed from duplex human telomeric dna as well as from single-stranded dna. importantly  telomestatin stabilizes these g-quadruplex structures in the absence of monovalent cations  which is a unique characteristic among g-quadruplex-interactive compounds. at noncytotoxic concentrations  telomestatin suppresses the proliferation of telomerase-positive cells within several weeks. in contrast  tmpyp4  a compound that preferentially facilitates the formation of intermolecular g-quadruplex structures  suppresses the proliferation of alternative lengthening of telomeres (alt)-positive cells as well as telomerase-positive cells. we have also demonstrated that tmpyp4 induces anaphase bridges in sea urchin embryos  whereas telomestatin did not have this effect  leading us to conclude that the selectivity of telomestatin for intramolecular g-quadruplex structures and tmpyp4 for intermolecular g-quadruplex structures is important in mediating different biological effects: stabilization of intramolecular g-quadruplex structures produces telomerase inhibition and accelerated telomere shortening  whereas facilitation of the formation of intermolecular g-quadruplex structures induces the formation of anaphase bridges.
3882,interferon alpha for the treatment of chronic hepatitis c in patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus. hepatitis-hiv spanish study group.,liver disease secondary to hepatitis c virus (hcv) infection is a rising cause of morbidity and mortality among individuals who have been infected parenterally with human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) such as injection drug users  hemophiliacs  and transfused patients. we analyzed both the efficacy of interferon (ifn) alpha therapy in these patients and the predictors of response to this agent. a total of 119 patients with chronic hepatitis c (90 of whom were infected with hiv and 29 of whom were not) were included in a multicenter  prospective  open  nonrandomized observational study. ifn-alpha was given subcutaneously in a dosage of 5 million units three times a week during a 3-month period; those patients who responded received a dose of 3 million units given subcutaneously three times a week for an additional 9 months. one hundred seven patients completed the study; the level of aminotransferases returned to normal and sera became negative (complete response) for hcv rna in 26 (32.5%) of 80 hiv-infected patients and 10 (37.0%) of 27 non-hiv-infected patients (p = .666) after completion of the treatment. two variables were independently associated with a response in hiv-infected patients: a cd4+ t lymphocyte count of > 500 x 10(6)/l and a baseline hcv viremia level of < 10(7) copies/ml. in the 12 months following treatment  relapses occurred in 30.8% of the hiv-infected patients and 12.5% of non-hiv-infected patients (p = .403).
3884,a novel viral transcript with homology to human interleukin-10 is expressed during latent human cytomegalovirus infection.,human cytomegalovirus (cmv) establishes latent infections in hematopoietic cells such as granulocyte-macrophage progenitors (gm-ps). during latency the virus is sequestered in a nonreplicating state  although limited transcriptional activity has been previously reported. in this study we sought to further examine viral gene expression during the latent phase of infection. using an experimental model of latency  primary human gm-ps were latently infected with cmv strain toledo and extracted rna subjected to reverse transcription-pcr by using cmv gene-specific primers. using this approach  we detected transcription from the ul111.5a region of the viral genome. this transcription was also detected in gm-ps latently infected with ad169 and towne strains  indicating that expression was cmv strain independent. significantly  we detected ul111.5a-region transcripts in mononuclear cells from healthy bone marrow and mobilized peripheral blood allograft donors  demonstrating expression during natural latent infection. mapping experiments with rna extracted from latently infected gm-ps revealed the expression of a novel ul111.5a region transcript with a splicing pattern that differed from that reported during productive infection of permissive cells. this ul111.5a region transcript expressed during latent infection is predicted to encode a 139-amino-acid protein with homology to the potent immunosuppressor interleukin-10 (il-10) and to the viral il-10 homolog that is expressed during productive cmv infection. expression of a latency-associated cmvil-10 may confer upon the virus an ability to avoid immune recognition and clearance during the latent phase of infection.
3886,premature chromosome condensation: evidence for in vivo cell fusion in human malignant tumours.,premature chromosome condensation (pcc) was studied in direct preparations of tissues from patients with haematological diseases and carcinomas of various histological types. pcc was found in 6 out of 166 malignancies (128 haematological cases  35 carcinomas and 3 malignant effusions) analysed with the gtg-technique. chromosome analysis revealed s-phase and g1-phase pcc in each case; the frequency of pcc varied between 1  4 and 8.6% of the metaphases analysed. it is suggested that pcc chromosomes  which represent cell fusion in vivo  are not very rare in naturally-occurring human malignancies  and that cell fusion may affect the malignant phenotype. in conjunction with other factors they may also explain the heterogeneity of tumour cell populations.
3888,the role of epigenetics in aging and autoimmunity.,the decline in immunocompetence with age is accompanied by the increase in the incidence of autoimmune diseases. aging of the immune system  or immunosenescence  is characterized by a decline of both t and b cell function  and paradoxically the presence of low-grade chronic inflammation. there is growing evidence that epigenetics  the study of inherited changes in gene expression that are not encoded by the dna sequence itself  changes with aging. interestingly  emerging evidence suggests a key role for epigenetics in human pathologies  including inflammatory and neoplastic disorders. here  we will review the potential mechanisms that contribute to the increase in autoimmune responses in aging. in particular  we will discuss how epigenetic alterations  especially dna methylation and histone acetylation  are accumulated during aging and how these events contribute to autoimmunity risk.
3890,long-term inhibition of dipeptidyl peptidase-4 in alzheimer's prone mice.,we tested here the impact of a long-term inhibition of dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (dpp-4) with sitagliptin on the deposition of amyloid-beta within the brain and deficits in memory-related behavioral paradigms in a model of alzheimer's disease (ad): double transgenic mice b6*cg-tg(appswe psen1de9)85dbo/j. mice began to receive sitagliptin at 7 months of age. three different dose of sitagliptin (5  10 and 20 mg/kg)  were administered daily for 12 weeks by gastric gavage. the treatments counteracted: (i) the memory impairment in the contextual fear conditioning test; (ii) increased the brain levels of glp-1; (iii) produced significant reductions of nitrosative stress and inflammation hallmarks within the brain  as well as (iv) a significant diminution in the ultimate number and total area of betaapp and abeta deposits. all these effects much more evident for the dose of 20 mg/kg sitagliptin. the long-term inhibition of the endogenous dpp-4 enzymes with sitagliptin can significantly delay some forms of ad pathology  including amyloid deposition  when administered early in the disease course of a transgenic mouse model of ad.
3892,redox regulation of cell migration and adhesion.,reactive oxygen species (ros)  particularly hydrogen peroxide  and the proteins that regulate them play important roles in the migration and adhesion of cells. stimulation of cell surface receptors with growth factors and chemoattractants generates ros  which relay signals from the cell surface to key signaling proteins inside the cell. ros act within cells to promote migration and also in nonmigrating cells to influence the behavior of migrating cells. hydrogen peroxide has also been suggested to act as a chemoattractant in its own right  drawing immune cells to wounds. we discuss recent progress made towards understanding how organisms use ros  and to what degree they depend on them  during the related processes of cell migration and adhesion.
3894,requirement of nad and sir2 for life-span extension by calorie restriction in saccharomyces cerevisiae.,calorie restriction extends life-span in a wide variety of organisms. although it has been suggested that calorie restriction may work by reducing the levels of reactive oxygen species produced during respiration  the mechanism by which this regimen slows aging is uncertain. here  we mimicked calorie restriction in yeast by physiological or genetic means and showed a substantial extension in life-span. this extension was not observed in strains mutant for sir2 (which encodes the silencing protein sir2p) or npt1 (a gene in a pathway in the synthesis of nad  the oxidized form of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide). these findings suggest that the increased longevity induced by calorie restriction requires the activation of sir2p by nad.
3896,effect of enalapril on 12-year survival and life expectancy in patients with left ventricular systolic dysfunction: a follow-up study.,background in the studies of left ventricular dysfunction (solvd)  enalapril reduced mortality in patients with symptomatic but not asymptomatic left ventricular systolic dysfunction during the trial. we did a 12-year follow-up of solvd to establish if the mortality reduction with enalapril among patients with heart failure was sustained  and whether a subsequent reduction in mortality would emerge among those with asymptomatic ventricular dysfunction. methods of the 6797 patients previously enrolled in the solvd prevention and treatment trials  we ascertained the subsequent vital status of 5165 individuals who were alive when the trials had been completed. follow-up was done through direct contacts in belgium and linkages with national death registries and federal beneficiary or historic tax summary files in the usa and canada. findings follow-up was 99.8% (6784/6797) complete. in the prevention trial  50.9% (1074/2111) of the enalapril group had died compared with 56.4% (1195/2117) of the placebo group (generalised wilcoxon p=0.001). in the treatment trial  79.8% (1025/1285) of the enalapril group had died compared with 80.8% (1038/1284) of the placebo group (generalised wilcoxon p=0.01). the reductions in cardiac deaths were significant and similar in both trials. when data for the prevention and treatment trials were combined  the hazard ratio for death was 0.90 for the enalapril group compared with the placebo group (95% ci 0.84-0.95  generalised wilcoxon p=0.0003). enalapril extended median survival by 9.4 months in the combined trials (95% ci 2.8-16.5  p=0.004). interpretation treatment with enalapril for 3-4 years led to a sustained improvement in survival beyond the original trial period in patients with left ventricular systolic dysfunction  with an important increase in life expectancy.
3898,the structure and expression of a novel gene activated in early mouse embryogenesis.,we report the cloning and sequence determination of the mouse h19 gene. this gene is under the genetic control of two trans-acting loci in the mouse  termed raf and rif. these loci determine the adult basal and inducible levels  respectively  of h19 mrna  as well as the mrna for alpha-fetoprotein. by elucidating the sequence and structure of the h19 gene we show that it is unrelated to the alpha-fetoprotein gene  and therefore must have acquired its regulation by raf and rif independently. the sequence also indicates that the h19 gene has a very unusual structure. it is composed of five exons  1307  135  119  127 and 560 bp in size  along with four very small introns whose combined lengths are 270 bases. the largest open reading frame of the gene  sufficient to encode a protein of approximately 14 kd  is contained entirely within the first large exon  680 bases downstream of the cap site of the mrna. preceding the translation initiation codon are four atg codons  each of which is followed shortly thereafter by translation terminator codons. the rest of the gene  which encompasses all five exons  is presumed to be untranslated. that the long 5' untranslated region may be used to regulate the translation of the mrna is suggested from in vitro translation studies. experiments which utilized tissue culture cell lines of the mesodermal lineage suggest that the gene is activated very early during muscle cell differentiation.
3900,comparison of pain syndromes associated with nervous or somatic lesions and development of a new neuropathic pain diagnostic questionnaire (dn4),few studies have directly compared the clinical features of neuropathic and non-neuropathic pains. for this purpose  the french neuropathic pain group developed a clinician-administered questionnaire named dn4 consisting of both sensory descriptors and signs related to bedside sensory examination. this questionnaire was used in a prospective study of 160 patients presenting with pain associated with a definite neurological or somatic lesion. the most common aetiologies of nervous lesions (n=89) were traumatic nerve injury  post herpetic neuralgia and post stroke pain. non-neurological lesions (n=71) were represented by osteoarthritis  inflammatory arthropathies and mechanical low back pain. each patient was seen independently by two experts in order to confirm the diagnosis of neuropathic or non-neuropathic pain. the prevalence of pain descriptors and sensory dysfunctions were systematically compared in the two groups of patients. the analysis of the psychometric properties of the dn4 questionnaire included: face validity  inter-rater reliability  factor analysis and logistic regression to identify the discriminant properties of items or combinations of items for the diagnosis of neuropathic pain. we found that a relatively small number of items are sufficient to discriminate neuropathic pain. the 10-item questionnaire developed in the present study constitutes a new diagnostic instrument  which might be helpful both in clinical research and daily practice.
3902,[pharmacokinetics and biotransformation of the antimycotic drug ciclopiroxolamine in animals and man after topical and systemic administration].,1. following the dermal application of the carbon-14 labelled broad spectrum antimycotic 6-cyclohexyl-1-hydroxy-4-methyl-2(1h)-pyridone  2-aminoethanol salt (ciclopiroxolamine  hoe 296  batrafen) in the form of a 1% aqueous cream to healthy human dorsal skin (penetration time: 6 h; occlusive dressing for 5 h)  percutaneous absorption accounted on average for 1.3% of the dose applied. excretion occurred via the kidney  with biological half-lives of 1.7 h. as can be seen from penetration studies of cadaverous skin  the horny layer contained the highest concentrations  with values of 2300-4500 microgram/cm3. the levels determined in the corium were still above the minimum inhibitory concentrations. these concentrations were already obtained at the first test stage (1.5 h after application) and did not change virtually at all over the longer penetration period. according to studies using histoautoradiography  ciclopirox can penetrate the skin via the epidermis and the hair follicles. when ciclopirox-14c-olamine aqueous cream was spread on the surface of fingernails  the radioactive-labelled compound penetrated right through the nail. the percutaneous absorption in dogs was higher  at 5-15% of the dose  than it was in humans. 2. after vaginal application (1 mg/kg) of ciclopirox-14c-olamine in the form of a 1% aqueous cream to bitches  between 42 and 97% of the dose (depending on the animal) was recovered in the urine and faeces  the remainder having penetrated into the tampon used to close the vagina. 3. ciclopirox is excreted by dogs and man in the urine  primarily as a glucuronide. in humans another glucuronide with properties similar to those of the original substance was detected. two conjugated  relatively non-polar metabolites were also present in small amounts. the metabolite patterns after oral and dermal application were similar. the binding of ciclopirox to serum proteins in humans was 96 +/- 2% in a concentration range of 0.01-11.0 microgram/ml. 4. placental transfer was low in the rats studied. though there was good absorption by the mother animal  the radioactivity in the foetal tissues was always lower than that of the maternal blood.
3904,age-structured red blood cell susceptibility and the dynamics of malaria infections.,malaria parasites and immune responses in an infected human interact on a dynamic landscape  in which a population of replicating parasites depletes a population of replenishing red blood cells (rbcs). these underlying dynamics receive relatively little attention  but they offer unique insights into the processes that control most malaria infections. here  we focus on the observation that three of the four malaria-parasite species that infect humans are restricted to particular age classes of rbc. we explicitly incorporate this observation in models of infection dynamics to distinguish common from species-specific pressures on host immune responses  and we find that age structuring has profound effects on the course of infection. for all four species conditions exist under which the parasites may persist at low densities  or may clear  even in the absence of an immune response. catastrophic anemia can occur even with the two species that attack only the youngest rbcs  although only a small fraction of cells are parasitized at any point. furthermore  with these two  compensatory erythropoetic responses in the host accelerate parasite population growth. a "basic reproduction rate" characterizes these differences in outcomes.
3906,a quantitative analysis of kinase inhibitor selectivity,kinase inhibitors are a new class of therapeutics with a propensity to inhibit multiple targets. the biological consequences of multi-kinase activity are poorly defined  and an important step toward understanding the relationship between selectivity  efficacy and safety is the exploration of how inhibitors interact with the human kinome. we present interaction maps for 38 kinase inhibitors across a panel of 317 kinases representing >50% of the predicted human protein kinome. the data constitute the most comprehensive study of kinase inhibitor selectivity to date and reveal a wide diversity of interaction patterns. to enable a global analysis of the results  we introduce the concept of a selectivity score as a general tool to quantify and differentiate the observed interaction patterns. we further investigate the impact of panel size and find that small assay panels do not provide a robust measure of selectivity.
3908,vasculature-associated cells expressing nestin in developing bones encompass early cells in the osteoblast and endothelial lineage.,nestin-positive (nes(+)) cells are important hematopoiesis-supporting constituents in adult bone marrow. however  how these cells originate during endochondral bone development is unknown. studies using mice expressing gfp under the direction of nestin promoter/enhancer (nes-gfp) revealed distinct endothelial and nonendothelial nes(+) cells in the embryonic perichondrium; the latter were early cells of the osteoblast lineage immediately descended from their progenitors upon indian hedgehog action and runx2 expression. during vascular invasion and formation of ossification centers  these nes(+) cells were closely associated with each other and increased in number progressively. interestingly  cells targeted by tamoxifen-inducible cre recombinase driven by nestin enhancer (nes-creer) in developing bone marrow were predominantly endothelial cells. furthermore  nes(+) cells in postnatal bones were heterogeneous populations  including a range of cells in the osteoblast and endothelial lineage. these findings reveal an emerging complexity of stromal populations  accommodating nes(+) cells as vasculature-associated early cells in the osteoblast and endothelial lineage.
3910,ret  ros1 and alk fusions in lung cancer,through an integrated molecular- and histopathology-based screening system  we performed a screening for fusions of anaplastic lymphoma kinase (alk) and c-ros oncogene 1  receptor tyrosine kinase (ros1) in 1 529 lung cancers and identified 44 alk-fusion–positive and 13 ros1-fusion–positive adenocarcinomas  including for unidentified fusion partners for ros1. in addition  we discovered previously unidentified kinase fusions that may be promising for molecular-targeted therapy  kinesin family member 5b (kif5b)-ret proto-oncogene (ret) and coiled-coil domain containing 6 (ccdc6)-ret  in 14 adenocarcinomas. a multivariate analysis of 1 116 adenocarcinomas containing these 71 kinase-fusion–positive adenocarcinomas identified four independent factors that are indicators of poor prognosis: age ≥50 years  male sex  high pathological stage and negative kinase-fusion status.
3912,rational design of acridine-based ligands with selectivity for human telomeric quadruplexes.,structure-based modeling methods have been used to design a series of disubstituted triazole-linked acridine compounds with selectivity for human telomeric quadruplex dnas. a focused library of these compounds was prepared using click chemistry and the selectivity concept was validated against two promoter quadruplexes from the c-kit gene with known molecular structures  as well as with duplex dna using a fret-based melting method. lead compounds were found to have reduced effects on the thermal stability of the c-kit quadruplexes and duplex dna structures. these effects were further explored with a series of competition experiments  which confirmed that binding to duplex dna is very low even at high duplex:telomeric quadruplex ratios. selectivity to the c-kit quadruplexes is more complex  with some evidence of their stabilization at increasing excess over human telomeric quadruplex dna. selectivity is a result of the dimensions of the triazole-acridine compounds  and in particular the separation of the two alkyl-amino terminal groups. both lead compounds also have selective inhibitory effects on the proliferation of cancer cell lines compared to a normal cell line  and one has been shown to inhibit the activity of the telomerase enzyme  which is selectively expressed in tumor cells  where it plays a role in maintaining telomere integrity and cellular immortalization.
3914,a meta-analysis of depression during pregnancy and the risk of preterm birth  low birth weight  and intrauterine growth restriction.,context maternal depressive symptoms during pregnancy have been reported in some  but not all  studies to be associated with an increased risk of preterm birth (ptb)  low birth weight (lbw)  and intrauterine growth restriction (iugr). objective to estimate the risk of ptb  lbw  and iugr associated with antenatal depression. data sources and study selection we searched for english-language and non-english-language articles via the medline  psycinfo  cinahl  social work abstracts  social services abstracts  and dissertation abstracts international databases (january 1980 through december 2009). we aimed to include prospective studies reporting data on antenatal depression and at least 1 adverse birth outcome: ptb (<37 weeks' gestation)  lbw (<2500 g)  or iugr (<10th percentile for gestational age). of 862 reviewed studies  29 us-published and non-us-published studies met the selection criteria. data extraction information was extracted on study characteristics  antenatal depression measurement  and other biopsychosocial risk factors and was reviewed twice to minimize error. data synthesis pooled relative risks (rrs) for the effect of antenatal depression on each birth outcome were calculated using random-effects methods. in studies of ptb  lbw  and iugr that used a categorical depression measure  pooled effect sizes were significantly larger (pooled rr [95% confidence interval] = 1.39 [1.19-1.61]  1.49 [1.25-1.77]  and 1.45 [1.05-2.02]  respectively) compared with studies that used a continuous depression measure (1.03 [1.00-1.06]  1.04 [0.99-1.09]  and 1.02 [1.00-1.04]  respectively). the estimates of risk for categorically defined antenatal depression and ptb and lbw remained significant when the trim-and-fill procedure was used to correct for publication bias. the risk of lbw associated with antenatal depression was significantly larger in developing countries (rr = 2.05; 95% confidence interval  1.43-2.93) compared with the united states (rr = 1.10; 95% confidence interval  1.01-1.21) or european social democracies (rr = 1.16; 95% confidence interval  0.92-1.47). categorically defined antenatal depression tended to be associated with an increased risk of ptb among women of lower socioeconomic status in the united states. conclusions women with depression during pregnancy are at increased risk for ptb and lbw  although the magnitude of the effect varies as a function of depression measurement  country location  and us socioeconomic status. an important implication of these findings is that antenatal depression should be identified through universal screening and treated.
3916,metabolic shutdown in escherichia coli cells lacking the outer membrane channel tolc.,the outer membrane channel tolc is a key component of multidrug efflux and type i secretion transporters in escherichia coli. mutational inactivation of tolc renders cells highly susceptible to antibiotics and leads to defects in secretion of protein toxins. despite impairment of various transport functions  no growth defects were reported in cells lacking tolc. unexpectedly  we found that the loss of tolc notably impairs cell division and growth in minimal glucose medium. the tolc-dependent phenotype was further exacerbated by the loss of ygib and ygic genes expressed in the same operon as tolc and their homologues yjfm and yjfc located elsewhere on the chromosome. our results show that this growth deficiency is caused by depletion of the critical metabolite nad(+) and high nadh/nad(+) ratios. the increased amounts of pspa and decreased rates of nadh oxidation in delta tolc membranes indicated stress on the membrane and dissipation of a proton motive force. we conclude that inactivation of tolc triggers metabolic shutdown in e. coli cells grown in minimal glucose medium. the delta tolc phenotype is partially rescued by ygibc and yjfmc  which have parallel functions independent from tolc.
3918,hydrogen sulfide increases nitric oxide production with calcium-dependent activation of endothelial nitric oxide synthase in endothelial cells.,hydrogen sulfide (h(2)s) was recently discovered to be synthesized in mammalian tissues by several different enzymes. numerous studies have shown that h(2)s has vasodilator and antihypertensive effects in the cardiovascular system. however  intracellular mechanisms of the h(2)s-induced vasodilation and its interactions with other endothelium-derived relaxing factors  such as nitric oxide (no)  remain unclear. we investigated whether h(2)s directly regulates endothelial no synthase (enos) activity and no production in endothelial cells. nahs  a h(2)s donor  dose-dependently increased no production in cultured endothelial cells. this effect was abolished by a calcium chelator (bapta-am)  but not by the absence of extracellular calcium. the nahs-induced no production was partially blocked by inhibitors of ryanodine receptor (dantrolene) or inositol 1 4 5-triphosphate receptor (xestospongin c). nahs significantly increased intracellular calcium concentrations  and this effect was attenuated by dantrolene or xestospongin c. nahs induced phosphorylation of enos at the activating phosphoserine residue 1179. the nahs-induced enos phosphorylation and no production were not affected by a pi3k/akt inhibitor (wortmannin). the data of this study suggest that h(2)s directly acts on endothelial cells to induce enos activation and no production by releasing calcium from the intracellular store in endoplasmic reticulum  which may explain one of mechanisms of its vasodilator function.
3920,repeat instability: mechanisms of dynamic mutations,disease-causing repeat instability is an important and unique form of mutation that is linked to more than 40 neurological  neurodegenerative and neuromuscular disorders. dna repeat expansion mutations are dynamic and ongoing within tissues and across generations. the patterns of inherited and tissue-specific instability are determined by both gene-specific cis-elements and trans-acting dna metabolic proteins. repeat instability probably involves the formation of unusual dna structures during dna replication  repair and recombination. experimental advances towards explaining the mechanisms of repeat instability have broadened our understanding of this mutational process. they have revealed surprising ways in which metabolic pathways can drive or protect from repeat instability.
3922,schizophrenia susceptibility pathway neuregulin 1–erbb4 suppresses src upregulation of nmda receptors,hypofunction of the n-methyl d-aspartate subtype of glutamate receptor (nmdar) is hypothesized to be a mechanism underlying cognitive dysfunction in individuals with schizophrenia. for the schizophrenia-linked genes nrg1 and erbb4  nmdar hypofunction is thus considered a key detrimental consequence of the excessive nrg1-erbb4 signaling found in people with schizophrenia. however  we show here that neuregulin 1β–erbb4 (nrg1β-erbb4) signaling does not cause general hypofunction of nmdars. rather  we find that  in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex  nrg1β-erbb4 signaling suppresses the enhancement of synaptic nmdar currents by the nonreceptor tyrosine kinase src. nrg1β-erbb4 signaling prevented induction of long-term potentiation at hippocampal schaffer collateral–ca1 synapses and suppressed src-dependent enhancement of nmdar responses during theta-burst stimulation. moreover  nrg1β-erbb4 signaling prevented theta burst–induced phosphorylation of glun2b by inhibiting src kinase activity. we propose that nrg1-erbb4 signaling participates in cognitive dysfunction in schizophrenia by aberrantly suppressing src-mediated enhancement of synaptic nmdar function.
3924,sympathetic activation during early pregnancy in humans.,sympathetic activity has been reported to increase in normotensive pregnant women  and to be even greater in women with gestational hypertension and preeclampsia at term. whether sympathetic overactivity develops early during pregnancy  remaining high throughout gestation  or whether it only occurs at term providing the substrate for hypertensive disorders is unknown. we tested the hypothesis that sympathetic activation occurs early during pregnancy in humans. eleven healthy women (29 ± 3 (sd) years) without prior hypertensive pregnancies were tested during the mid-luteal phase (pre) and early pregnancy (early; 6.2 ± 1.2 weeks of gestation). muscle sympathetic nerve activity (msna) and haemodynamics were measured supine  at 30 deg and 60 deg upright tilt for 5 min each. blood samples were drawn for catecholamines  direct renin  and aldosterone. msna was significantly greater during early than pre (supine: 25 ± 8 vs. 14 ± 8 bursts min(-1)  60 deg tilt: 49 ± 14 vs. 40 ± 10 bursts min(-1); main effect  p < 0.05). resting diastolic pressure trended lower (p = 0.09)  heart rate was similar  total peripheral resistance decreased (2172 ± 364 vs. 2543 ± 352 dyne s cm(-5); p < 0.05)  sympathetic vascular transduction was blunted (0.10 ± 0.05 vs. 0.36 ± 0.47 units a.u.(-1) min(-1); p < 0.01)  and both renin (supine: 27.9 ± 6.2 vs. 14.2 ± 8.7 pg ml(-1)  p < 0.01) and aldosterone (supine: 16.7 ± 14.1 vs. 7.7 ± 6.8 ng ml(-1)  p = 0.05) were higher during early than pre. these results suggest that sympathetic activation is a common characteristic of early pregnancy in humans despite reduced diastolic pressure and total peripheral resistance. these observations challenge conventional thinking about blood pressure regulation during pregnancy  showing marked sympathetic activation occurring within the first few weeks of conception  and may provide the substrate for pregnancy induced cardiovascular complications.
3926,distinct and essential roles of transcription factors irf-3 and irf-7 in response to viruses for ifn-alpha/beta gene induction.,induction of the interferon (ifn)-alpha/beta gene transcription in virus-infected cells is an event central to innate immunity. mice lacking the transcription factor irf-3 are more vulnerable to virus infection. in embryonic fibroblasts  virus-induced ifn-alpha/beta gene expression levels are reduced and the spectrum of the ifn-alpha mrna subspecies altered. furthermore  cells additionally defective in irf-7 expression totally fail to induce these genes in response to infections by any of the virus types tested. in these cells  a normal profile of ifn-alpha/beta mrna induction can be achieved by coexpressing both irf-3 and irf-7. these results demonstrate the essential and distinct roles of thetwo factors  which together ensure the transcriptional efficiency and diversity of ifn-alpha/beta genes for the antiviral response.
3928,metabolic reprogramming of stromal fibroblasts through p62-mtorc1 signaling promotes inflammation and tumorigenesis.,the tumor microenvironment plays a critical role in cancer progression  but the precise mechanisms by which stromal cells influence the epithelium are poorly understood. here we show that p62 levels were reduced in the stroma of several tumors and that its loss in the tumor microenvironment or stromal fibroblasts resulted in increased tumorigenesis of epithelial prostate cancer cells. the mechanism involves the regulation of cellular redox through an mtorc1/c-myc pathway of stromal glucose and amino acid metabolism  resulting in increased stromal il-6 production  which is required for tumor promotion in the epithelial compartment. thus  p62 is an anti-inflammatory tumor suppressor that acts through the modulation of metabolism in the tumor stroma.
3930,knowledge  attitudes  and practice on second primary cancer screening among cancer survivors: a qualitative study.,objective the goal of this study was to examine the knowledge  attitude  and practice on second cancer screening among cancer survivors. methods three focus group interviews were conducted with thirteen disease-free stomach  colorectal  breast and thyroid cancer survivors. recurrent issues were identified and then placed into thematic categories. results none of the study participants had heard spc  and they could not differentiate spc from 'recurrence' or 'metastasis.' survivors believed that they had been cured  and they were not aware of their increased risk of spc. although they had high awareness of cancer screening  they could not make a distinction between 'cancer screening' and 'routine surveillance test' after cancer treatment. survivors said that they would have had the screening for spc if they had known about it. they preferred physicians as the most reliable source for screening information. conclusion cancer survivors had limited knowledge about spc  and lack of information was the main barrier for spc screening. practice implications an educational intervention would help cancer survivors to understand their risk of spc and the needs of screening after the first cancer.
3932,dissection of signaling cascades through gp130 in vivo: reciprocal roles for stat3- and shp2-mediated signals in immune responses.,we generated a series of knockin mouse lines  in which the cytokine receptor gp130-dependent stat3 and/or shp2 signals were disrupted  by replacing the mouse gp130 gene with human gp130 mutant cdnas. the shp2 signal-deficient mice (gp130f759/f759 were born normal but displayed splenomegaly and lymphadenopathy and an enhanced acute phase reaction. in contrast  the stat3 signal-deficient mice (gp130fxq/fxxq) died perinatally  like the gp130-deficient mice (gp130d/d). the gp130f759/f759 mice showed prolonged gp130-induced stat3 activation  indicating a negative regulatory role for shp2. th1-type cytokine production and igg2a and igg2b production were increased in the gp130f759/f759 mice  while they were decreased in the gp130fxxq/fxxq immune system. these results indicate that the balance of positive and negative signals generated through gp130 regulates the immune responses.
3934,bortezomib enhances dendritic cell (dc)-mediated induction of immunity to human myeloma via exposure of cell surface heat shock protein 90 on dying tumor cells: therapeutic implications.,most anticancer chemotherapies are immunosuppressive and induce nonimmunogenic tumor cell death. bortezomib  a specific inhibitor of 26s proteasome  has shown clinical activity in several human tumors  including myeloma. here we show that the uptake of human myeloma cells by dendritic cells (dcs) after tumor cell death by bortezomib  but not gamma irradiation or steroids  leads to the induction of antitumor immunity  including against primary tumor cells  without the need for any additional adjuvants. the delivery of activating signal from bortezomib-killed tumor cells to dcs depends on cell-cell contact between dcs and dying tumor cells and is mediated by bortezomib-induced exposure of heat shock protein 90 (hsp90) on the surface of dying cells. the combination of bortezomib and geldanamycin (an hsp90 inhibitor) leads to greater apoptosis of tumor cells but abrogates their immunogenicity. these data identify drug-induced exposure of endogenous heat shock proteins on the surface of dying cells as a mechanism of immunogenic death of human tumors. specific targeting of bortezomib to tumors may enhance their immunogenicity and the induction of antitumor immunity.
3936,small molecules enable cardiac reprogramming of mouse fibroblasts with a single factor  oct4.,it was recently shown that mouse fibroblasts could be reprogrammed into cells of a cardiac fate by forced expression of multiple transcription factors and micrornas. for ultimate application of such a reprogramming strategy for cell-based therapy or in vivo cardiac regeneration  reducing or eliminating the genetic manipulations by small molecules would be highly desirable. here  we report the identification of a defined small-molecule cocktail that enables the highly efficient conversion of mouse fibroblasts into cardiac cells with only one transcription factor  oct4  without any evidence of entrance into the pluripotent state. small-molecule-induced cardiomyocytes spontaneously contract and exhibit a ventricular phenotype. furthermore  these induced cardiomyocytes pass through a cardiac progenitor stage. this study lays the foundation for future pharmacological reprogramming approaches and provides a small-molecule condition for investigation of the mechanisms underlying the cardiac reprogramming process.
3938,potential mechanisms of action of lithium in bipolar disorder,lithium has been used for over half a century for the treatment of bipolar disorder as the archetypal mood stabilizer  and has a wealth of empirical evidence supporting its efficacy in this role. despite this  the specific mechanisms by which lithium exerts its mood-stabilizing effects are not well understood. given the inherently complex nature of the pathophysiology of bipolar disorder  this paper aims to capture what is known about the actions of lithium ranging from macroscopic changes in mood  cognition and brain structure  to its effects at the microscopic level on neurotransmission and intracellular and molecular pathways. a comprehensive literature search of databases including medline  embase and psycinfo was conducted using relevant keywords and the findings from the literature were then reviewed and synthesized. numerous studies report that lithium is effective in the treatment of acute mania and for the long-term maintenance of mood and prophylaxis; in comparison  evidence for its efficacy in depression is modest. however  lithium possesses unique anti-suicidal properties that set it apart from other agents. with respect to cognition  studies suggest that lithium may reduce cognitive decline in patients; however  these findings require further investigation using both neuropsychological and functional neuroimaging probes. interestingly  lithium appears to preserve or increase the volume of brain structures involved in emotional regulation such as the prefrontal cortex  hippocampus and amygdala  possibly reflecting its neuroprotective effects. at a neuronal level  lithium reduces excitatory (dopamine and glutamate) but increases inhibitory (gaba) neurotransmission; however  these broad effects are underpinned by complex neurotransmitter systems that strive to achieve homeostasis by way of compensatory changes. for example  at an intracellular and molecular level  lithium targets second-messenger systems that further modulate neurotransmission. for instance  the effects of lithium on the adenyl cyclase and phospho-inositide pathways  as well as protein kinase c  may serve to dampen excessive excitatory neurotransmission. in addition to these many putative mechanisms  it has also been proposed that the neuroprotective effects of lithium are key to its therapeutic actions. in this regard  lithium has been shown to reduce the oxidative stress that occurs with multiple episodes of mania and depression. further  it increases protective proteins such as brain-derived neurotrophic factor and b-cell lymphoma 2  and reduces apoptotic processes through inhibition of glycogen synthase kinase 3 and autophagy. overall  it is clear that the processes which underpin the therapeutic actions of lithium are sophisticated and most likely inter-related.
3940,the quest to overcome resistance to egfr-targeted therapies in cancer,all patients with metastatic lung  colorectal  pancreatic or head and neck cancers who initially benefit from epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr)-targeted therapies eventually develop resistance. an increasing understanding of the number and complexity of resistance mechanisms highlights the herculean challenge of killing tumors that are resistant to egfr inhibitors. our growing knowledge of resistance pathways provides an opportunity to develop new mechanism-based inhibitors and combination therapies to prevent or overcome therapeutic resistance in tumors. we present a comprehensive review of resistance pathways to egfr-targeted therapies in lung  colorectal and head and neck cancers and discuss therapeutic strategies that are designed to circumvent resistance.
3942,molecular layers underlying cytoskeletal remodelling during cortical development,during neural development  the cytoskeleton of newborn neurons undergoes extensive and dynamic remodelling to facilitate the sequential steps of neurogenesis  cell migration and terminal differentiation. it is clear from studying the mechanisms that precipitate these functions that different configurations of the cytoskeleton prefigure the correct execution of each step and define cohorts of proteins the functions of which are indispensable for the control of neuronal migration but not terminal differentiation. these combinatorial protein functions are also predetermined by regulated gene expression and the precise subcellular localisation of their protein products. here  we expand on this view in the context of recent data on how the cytoskeleton is regulated during the maturation of cortical neurons within the developing brain.
3944,chronic hypoxia induces modification of the n-methyl-d-aspartate receptor in rat brain.,this study examined [3h]mk-801 binding to the n-methyl-d-aspartate (nmda) receptor in membranes prepared from cerebral cortex  hippocampus and corpus striatum of 3 week old rats exposed to 10 weeks of intermittent hypobaric hypoxia (4300 m; 450 torr) and compared results with those of normoxic controls. the cortex  hippocampus and striatum of hypoxic animals had a 36  35 and 31% reduction in binding sites (bmax) and a 29  32 and 17% decrease (reflecting increased affinity) in the dissociation constant (kd) when compared to controls. in the cerebral cortex  both glutamate (100 microm) and glycine (10 microm) enhanced 3[h]mk-801 binding by two to 3-fold. coagonist glutamate  however  had a higher ec50 (0.44 microm) in the hypoxic cortical membranes when compared to controls (0.28 microm). no significant differences were found in the ec50 of glycine. the results show that the nmda receptor is altered in several brain regions of rats developing in a hypoxic environment.
3946,large deformation of red blood cell ghosts in a simple shear flow.,red blood cells are known to change shape in response to local flow conditions. deformability affects red blood cell physiological function and the hydrodynamic properties of blood. the immersed boundary method is used to simulate three-dimensional membrane-fluid flow interactions for cells with the same internal and external fluid viscosities. the method has been validated for small deformations of an initially spherical capsule in simple shear flow for both neo-hookean and the evans-skalak membrane models. initially oblate spheroidal capsules are simulated and it is shown that the red blood cell membrane exhibits asymptotic behavior as the ratio of the dilation modulus to the extensional modulus is increased and a good approximation of local area conservation is obtained. tank treading behavior is observed and its period calculated.
3948,transcript assembly and quantification by rna-seq reveals unannotated transcripts and isoform switching during cell differentiation.,high-throughput mrna sequencing (rna-seq) promises simultaneous transcript discovery and abundance estimation. however  this would require algorithms that are not restricted by prior gene annotations and that account for alternative transcription and splicing. here we introduce such algorithms in an open-source software program called cufflinks. to test cufflinks  we sequenced and analyzed >430 million paired 75-bp rna-seq reads from a mouse myoblast cell line over a differentiation time series. we detected 13 692 known transcripts and 3 724 previously unannotated ones  62% of which are supported by independent expression data or by homologous genes in other species. over the time series  330 genes showed complete switches in the dominant transcription start site (tss) or splice isoform  and we observed more subtle shifts in 1 304 other genes. these results suggest that cufflinks can illuminate the substantial regulatory flexibility and complexity in even this well-studied model of muscle development and that it can improve transcriptome-based genome annotation.
3950,documented head injury in early adulthood and risk of alzheimer's disease and other dementias.,background the association between antecedent head injury and ad is inconsistent. objective to examine the association between early adult head injury  as documented by military hospital records  and dementia in late life; and to evaluate the interaction between head injury and apoe epsilon4 as risk factors for dementia. methods the study had a population-based prospective historical cohort design. it included men who were world war ii navy and marine veterans  and were hospitalized during their military service with a diagnosis of either a nonpenetrating head injury or another unrelated condition. in 1996 to 1997  military medical records were abstracted to document the occurrence and details of closed head injury. the entire sample was then evaluated for dementia and ad using a multistage procedure. there were 548 veterans with head injury and 1228 without head injury who completed all assigned stages of the study. the authors estimated risk of dementia  specifically ad  using proportional hazards models. results both moderate head injury (hazard ratio [hr] = 2.32; ci = 1.04 to 5.17) and severe head injury (hr = 4.51; ci = 1.77 to 11.47) were associated with increased risk of ad. results were similar for dementia in general. the results for mild head injury were inconclusive. when the authors stratified by the number of apoe epsilon4 alleles  they observed a nonsignificant trend toward a stronger association between ad and head injury in men with more epsilon4 alleles. conclusions moderate and severe head injuries in young men may be associated with increased risk of ad and other dementias in late life. however  the authors cannot exclude the possibility that other unmeasured factors may be influencing this association.
3952,identification of genes associated with the astrocyte-specific gene gfap during astrocyte differentiation.,chromosomes and genes are non-randomly arranged within the mammalian cell nucleus  and gene clustering is of great significance in transcriptional regulation. however  the relevance of gene clustering and their expression during the differentiation of neural precursor cells (npcs) into astrocytes remains unclear. we performed a genome-wide enhanced circular chromosomal conformation capture (e4c) to screen for genes associated with the astrocyte-specific gene glial fibrillary acidic protein (gfap) during astrocyte differentiation. we identified 18 genes that were specifically associated with gfap and expressed in npc-derived astrocytes. our results provide additional evidence for the functional significance of gene clustering in transcriptional regulation during npc differentiation.
3954,association between early screening for patent ductus arteriosus and in-hospital mortality among extremely preterm infants.,importance there is currently no consensus for the screening and treatment of patent ductus arteriosus (pda) in extremely preterm infants. less pharmacological closure and more supportive management have been observed without evidence to support these changes. objective to evaluate the association between early screening echocardiography for pda and in-hospital mortality. design  setting  and participants comparison of screened and not screened preterm infants enrolled in the epipage 2 national prospective population-based cohort study that included all preterm infants born at less than 29 weeks of gestation and hospitalized in 68 neonatal intensive care units in france from april through december 2011. two main analyses were performed to adjust for potential selection bias  one using propensity score matching and one using neonatal unit preference for early screening echocardiography as an instrumental variable. exposures early screening echocardiography before day 3 of life. main outcomes and measures the primary outcome was death between day 3 and discharge. the secondary outcomes were major neonatal morbidities (pulmonary hemorrhage  severe bronchopulmonary dysplasia  severe cerebral lesions  and necrotizing enterocolitis). results among the 1513 preterm infants with data available to determine exposure  847 were screened for pda and 666 were not; 605 infants from each group could be paired. exposed infants were treated for pda more frequently during their hospitalization than nonexposed infants (55.1% vs 43.1%; odds ratio [or]  1.62 [95% ci  1.31 to 2.00]; absolute risk reduction [arr] in events per 100 infants  -12.0 [95% ci  -17.3 to -6.7). exposed infants had a lower hospital death rate (14.2% vs 18.5% ; or  0.73 [95% ci  0.54 to 0.98]; arr  4.3 [95% ci  0.3 to 8.3]) and a lower rate of pulmonary hemorrhage (5.6% vs 8.9%; or  0.60 [95% ci  0.38 to 0.95]; arr  3.3 [95% ci  0.4 to 6.3]). no differences in rates of necrotizing enterocolitis  severe bronchopulmonary dysplasia  or severe cerebral lesions were observed. in the overall cohort  instrumental variable analysis yielded an adjusted or for in-hospital mortality of 0.62 [95% ci  0.37 to 1.04]. conclusions and relevance in this national population-based cohort of extremely preterm infants  screening echocardiography before day 3 of life was associated with lower in-hospital mortality and likelihood of pulmonary hemorrhage but not with differences in necrotizing enterocolitis  severe bronchopulmonary dysplasia  or severe cerebral lesions. however  results of the instrumental variable analysis leave some ambiguity in the interpretation  and longer-term evaluation is needed to provide clarity.
3956,an activator of the camp/pka/creb pathway promotes osteogenesis from human mesenchymal stem cells.,mesenchymal stem cells (mscs) are multipotent adult stem cells capable of differentiating along the osteoblast  adipocyte  and chondrocyte lineages. regulation of mscs differentiation may be a useful tool for regenerative medicine and cell-based therapy. the discovery of small molecule that activates the osteogenic differentiation of mscs could aid in the development of a new anabolic drug for osteoporosis treatment. we identified cw008  a derivative of pyrazole-pyridine  that stimulates osteoblast differentiation of human mscs and increases bone formation in ovariectomized mice. cw008 promotes osteogenesis by activating camp/pka/creb signaling pathway and inhibiting leptin secretion. these results suggest that cw008 is an agonist of camp/pka/creb pathway in osteogenic differentiation and that application of cw008 may be useful for the treatment of bone-related diseases and for the study of bone biology.
3958,the growing landscape of lysine acetylation links metabolism and cell signalling,lysine acetylation is a conserved protein post-translational modification that links acetyl-coenzyme a metabolism and cellular signalling. recent advances in the identification and quantification of lysine acetylation by mass spectrometry have increased our understanding of lysine acetylation  implicating it in many biological processes through the regulation of protein interactions  activity and localization. in addition  proteins are frequently modified by other types of acylations  such as formylation  butyrylation  propionylation  succinylation  malonylation  myristoylation  glutarylation and crotonylation. the intricate link between lysine acylation and cellular metabolism has been clarified by the occurrence of several such metabolite-sensitive acylations and their selective removal by sirtuin deacylases. these emerging findings point to new functions for different lysine acylations and deacylating enzymes and also highlight the mechanisms by which acetylation regulates various cellular processes.
3960,free water elimination diffusion tractography: a comparison with conventional and fluid-attenuated inversion recovery  diffusion tensor imaging acquisitions.,purpose white matter tractography reconstructions using conventional diffusion tensor imaging (dti) near cerebrospinal fluid (csf) spaces are often adversely affected by csf partial volume effects (pves). this study evaluates the ability of free water elimination (fwe) dti methods to minimize the pve of csf for deterministic tractography applications. materials and methods ten healthy individuals were scanned with "traditional " flair (fluid-attenuated inversion recovery)  and fwe dti scans. the fornix  corpus callosum  and cingulum bundles were reconstructed using deterministic tractography. the fwe dti scan was performed twice to separately match total acquisition time (long fwe) and number of measurements (encoding directions  short fwe) to the flair and "traditional" dti scans. pve resolution was determined based on reconstructed tract volume. all reconstructions underwent blinded review for anatomical correctness  symmetry  and completeness. results reconstructions of the fornix demonstrated that the fwe and flair scans produce more complete  anatomically plausible reconstructions than "traditional" dti. additionally  the tract reconstructions using fwe-dti were significantly larger than when flair was used with dti (p < 0.0005). flair and the fwe methods led to signal-to-noise ratio (snr) reductions of 33% and 11%  respectively  compared with conventional dti. the long and short fwe acquisitions did not significantly (p ≥ 0.31) differ from one another for any of the reconstructed tracts. conclusion the fwe diffusion model overcomes csf pve without the time  snr  and volumetric coverage penalties inherent to flair dti.
3962,genome-wide gene-sodium interaction analyses on blood pressure: the genetic epidemiology network of salt-sensitivity study.,we performed genome-wide analyses to identify genomic loci that interact with sodium to influence blood pressure (bp) using single-marker-based (1 and 2 df joint tests) and gene-based tests among 1876 chinese participants of the genetic epidemiology network of salt-sensitivity (gensalt) study. among gensalt participants  the average of 3 urine samples was used to estimate sodium excretion. nine bp measurements were taken using a random zero sphygmomanometer. a total of 2.05 million single-nucleotide polymorphisms were imputed using affymetrix 6.0 genotype data and the chinese han of beijing and japanese of tokyo hapmap reference panel. promising findings (p<1.00×10(-4)) from gensalt were evaluated for replication among 775 chinese participants of the multi-ethnic study of atherosclerosis (mesa). single-nucleotide polymorphism and gene-based results were meta-analyzed across the gensalt and mesa studies to determine genome-wide significance. the 1 df tests identified interactions for ust rs13211840 on diastolic bp (p=3.13×10(-9)). the 2 df tests additionally identified associations for clgn rs2567241 (p=3.90×10(-12)) and loc105369882 rs11104632 (p=4.51×10(-8)) with systolic bp. the clgn variant rs2567241 was also associated with diastolic bp (p=3.11×10(-22)) and mean arterial pressure (p=2.86×10(-15)). genome-wide gene-based analysis identified mknk1 (p=6.70×10(-7))  c2orf80 (p<1.00×10(-12))  epha6 (p=2.88×10(-7))  scoc-as1 (p=4.35×10(-14))  scoc (p=6.46×10(-11))  clgn (p=3.68×10(-13))  mgat4d (p=4.73×10(-11))  arhgap42 (p≤1.00×10(-12))  casp4 (p=1.31×10(-8))  and linc01478 (p=6.75×10(-10)) that were associated with at least 1 bp phenotype. in summary  we identified 8 novel and 1 previously reported bp loci through the examination of single-nucleotide polymorphism and gene-based interactions with sodium.
3964,preservation of pancreatic beta-cell function and prevention of type 2 diabetes by pharmacological treatment of insulin resistance in high-risk hispanic women.,type 2 diabetes frequently results from progressive failure of pancreatic beta-cell function in the presence of chronic insulin resistance. we tested whether chronic amelioration of insulin resistance would preserve pancreatic beta-cell function and delay or prevent the onset of type 2 diabetes in high-risk hispanic women. women with previous gestational diabetes were randomized to placebo (n = 133) or the insulin-sensitizing drug troglitazone (400 mg/day; n = 133) administered in double-blind fashion. fasting plasma glucose was measured every 3 months  and oral glucose tolerance tests (ogtts) were performed annually to detect diabetes. intravenous glucose tolerance tests (ivgtts) were performed at baseline and 3 months later to identify early metabolic changes associated with any protection from diabetes. women who did not develop diabetes during the trial returned for ogtts and ivgtts 8 months after study medications were stopped. during a median follow-up of 30 months on blinded medication  average annual diabetes incidence rates in the 236 women who returned for at least one follow-up visit were 12.1 and 5.4% in women assigned to placebo and troglitazone  respectively (p < 0.01). protection from diabetes in the troglitazone group 1) was closely related to the degree of reduction in endogenous insulin requirements 3 months after randomization  2) persisted 8 months after study medications were stopped  and 3) was associated with preservation of beta-cell compensation for insulin resistance. treatment with troglitazone delayed or prevented the onset of type 2 diabetes in high-risk hispanic women. the protective effect was associated with the preservation of pancreatic beta-cell function and appeared to be mediated by a reduction in the secretory demands placed on beta-cells by chronic insulin resistance.
3966,relationship between drug treatment services  retention  and outcomes.,objective this longitudinal study conducted path analyses to examine the relationships between treatment processes and outcomes among patients in community-based drug treatment programs. methods a total of 1 939 patients from 36 outpatient drug-free and residential treatment programs in 13 california counties were assessed at intake  discharge  three months after admission  and nine months after admission. path analyses were conducted to relate the quantity and quality of services that were received in the first three months of treatment to treatment retention and outcomes at the nine-month follow-up. patients were determined to have a favorable outcome if for at least 30 days before the follow-up assessment they did not use drugs  were not involved in criminal activity  and lived in the community. the path analyses controlled for patients' baseline characteristics. results greater service intensity and satisfaction were positively related to either treatment completion or longer treatment retention  which in turn was related to favorable treatment outcomes. patients with greater problem severity received more services and were more likely to be satisfied with treatment. these patterns were similar for patients regardless of whether they were treated in outpatient drug-free programs or residential programs. conclusions the positive association between process measures-that is  greater levels of service intensity  satisfaction  and either treatment completion or retention-and treatment outcome strongly suggests that improvements in these key elements of the treatment process will improve treatment outcomes.
3968,an adenovirus mutant that replicates selectively in p53-deficient human tumor cells.,the human adenovirus e1b gene encodes a 55-kilodalton protein that inactivates the cellular tumor suppressor protein p53. here it is shown that a mutant adenovirus that does not express this viral protein can replicate in and lyse p53-deficient human tumor cells but not cells with functional p53. ectopic expression of the 55-kilodalton eib protein in the latter cells rendered them sensitive to infection with the mutant virus. injection of the mutant virus into p53-deficient human cervical carcinomas grown in nude mice caused a significant reduction in tumor size and caused complete regression of 60 percent of the tumors. these data raise the possibility that mutant adenoviruses can be used to treat certain human tumors.
3970,overexpression of both clock and bmal1 inhibits entry to s phase in human colon cancer cells.,many physiological  biochemical and behavioral processes operate under the circadian rhythm  which is generated by an internal time-keeping mechanism commonly referred to as the biological clock  in almost all organisms from bacteria to mammals. the core circadian oscillator is composed of an autoregulatory transcription-translation feedback loop  in which clock and bmal1 are positive regulators. a cell has two mechanisms  "cell cycle" and "cell rhythm"  the relationship between which remains controversial. therefore  the aim of this study was to explore the effect of clock and bmal1 on cell cycle  especially on the g1 phase  using vectors with the tetracycline operator-repressor system. the present study revealed that simultaneous induction of bmal1 and clock had an influential effect on the cell cycle in sw480/t-rex/clock/bmal1 cells  in which both clock and bmal1 could be induced by tetracycline. the observation that induction of both clock and bmal1 inhibited cell growth and the significant increase of the g1 phase proportion of in sw480/t-rex/clock/bmal1 cells indicated that entry from the g1 to s phase was inhibited by the induction of clock and bmal1. furthermore  overexpression of clock and bmal1 prevented the cells from entering into the g2/m phase induced by paclitaxel  and made the cells more resistant to the agent. in conclusion  we found that overexpression of both clock and bmal1 suppressed cell growth. in addition  the present study raised the possibility that clock and bmal1 may in part play a role in preventing the cells from entering g1 to s phase of cell cycle via suppression of cyclind1 expression  and thus acquiring resistance to paclitaxel.
3972,imiquimod 5% cream for the treatment of superficial basal cell carcinoma: results from a randomized vehicle-controlled phase iii study in europe.,background imiquimod is an immune response modifier that acts through toll-like receptor 7 to induce cytokine production and a subsequent innate and adaptive cell-mediated immune response. clinical studies have demonstrated clinical and histological clearance of superficial basal cell carcinoma (sbcc) after treatment with imiquimod 5% cream. objectives to evaluate the safety and clinical efficacy of imiquimod (aldaratrade mark; 3m pharmaceuticals  st paul  mn  u.s.a.) 5% cream for the treatment of sbcc in a multicentre  randomized  parallel  vehicle-controlled  double-blind  phase iii clinical study conducted at 26 centres in europe. methods subjects who had at least one histologically confirmed sbcc tumour were randomized to apply imiquimod or vehicle cream to the target tumour once daily  seven times per week (7 x/week) for 6 weeks. the target tumour location was identified with an indelible ink mark before treatment initiation. the treated tumour site was clinically assessed for treatment response at 12 weeks post-treatment and was then excised for histological evaluation. efficacy assessments included the composite response rates (proportion of subjects with clinical and histological clearance) and response rates solely based on histology (proportion of subjects with histological clearance). safety assessments  which included adverse events and scoring of local skin reactions (lsrs)  were carried out throughout the study. results in total  166 subjects were enrolled in this study. for the intent-to-treat dataset  there was a statistically significant difference between imiquimod and vehicle groups for both composite clearance rates (clinical and histological assessments) and histological clearance rates. composite clearance was demonstrated in 77% and 6% of subjects treated with imiquimod and vehicle cream  respectively. histological clearance was demonstrated in 80% and 6% of subjects treated with imiquimod and vehicle cream  respectively. the most frequently reported safety findings were investigator-assessed lsrs and spontaneous reports by subjects of application site reactions  which occurred more frequently in the imiquimod group than in the vehicle group. conclusions imiquimod 5% cream administered 7 x/week for 6 weeks is a safe and effective treatment for sbcc when compared with vehicle cream.
3974,swc2 is a widely conserved h2az-binding module essential for atp-dependent histone exchange,the histone variant h2az is incorporated preferentially at specific locations in chromatin to modulate chromosome functions. in saccharomyces cerevisiae  deposition of histone h2az is mediated by the multiprotein swr1 complex  which catalyzes atp-dependent exchange of nucleosomal histone h2a for h2az. here  we define interactions between swr1 components and h2az  revealing a link between the atpase domain of swr1 and three subunits required for the binding of h2az. we discovered that swc2 binds directly to and is essential for transfer of h2az. swc6 and arp6 are necessary for the association of swc2 and for nucleosome binding  whereas other subunits  swc5 and yaf9  are required for h2az transfer but neither h2az nor nucleosome binding. finally  the c-terminal α-helix of h2az is crucial for its recognition by swr1. these findings provide insight on the initial events of histone exchange.
3976,rearrangement of crlf2 is associated with mutation of jak kinases  alteration of ikzf1  hispanic/latino ethnicity  and a poor outcome in pediatric b-progenitor acute lymphoblastic leukemia.,gene expression profiling of 207 uniformly treated children with high-risk b-progenitor acute lymphoblastic leukemia revealed 29 of 207 cases (14%) with markedly elevated expression of crlf2 (cytokine receptor-like factor 2). each of the 29 cases harbored a genomic rearrangement of crlf2: 18 of 29 (62%) had a translocation of the immunoglobulin heavy chain gene igh@ on 14q32 to crlf2 in the pseudoautosomal region 1 of xp22.3/yp11.3  whereas 10 (34%) cases had a 320-kb interstitial deletion centromeric of crlf2  resulting in a p2ry8-crlf2 fusion. one case had both igh@-crlf2 and p2ry8-crlf2  and another had a novel crlf2 rearrangement. only 2 of 29 cases were down syndrome. crlf2 rearrangements were significantly associated with activating mutations of jak1 or jak2  deletion or mutation of ikzf1  and hispanic/latino ethnicity (fisher exact test  p < .001 for each). within this cohort  patients with crlf2 rearrangements had extremely poor treatment outcomes compared with those without crlf2 rearrangements (35.3% vs 71.3% relapse-free survival at 4 years; p < .001). together  these observations suggest that activation of crlf2 expression  mutation of jak kinases  and alterations of ikzf1 cooperate to promote b-cell leukemogenesis and identify these pathways as important therapeutic targets in this disease.
3978,validity of the world health organization adult adhd self-report scale (asrs) screener in a representative sample of health plan members.,the validity of the six-question world health organization adult adhd self-report scale (asrs) screener was assessed in a sample of subscribers to a large health plan in the us. a convenience subsample of 668 subscribers was administered the asrs screener twice to assess test-retest reliability and then a third time in conjunction with a clinical interviewer for dsm-iv adult adhd. the data were weighted to adjust for discrepancies between the sample and the population on socio-demographics and past medical claims. internal consistency reliability of the continuous asrs screener was in the range 0.63-0.72 and test-retest reliability (pearson correlations) in the range 0.58-0.77. a four-category version the asrs screener had strong concordance with clinician diagnoses  with an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (auc) of 0.90. the brevity and ability to discriminate dsm-iv cases from non-cases make the six-question asrs screener attractive for use both in community epidemiological surveys and in clinical outreach and case-finding initiatives.
3980,a study of high cell density cultivation process of recombinant helicobacter pylori multi-epitope vaccine engineering bacteria.,objective to establish high cell density cultivation process of recombinant helicobacter pylori multi-epitope vaccine engineering bacteria bib. methods based on the results of shake flask fermentation  the process was magnified into volume of a 50 l fermenter to optimize and verify the factors affecting the yield of the target protein  such as the fermentation medium  working seed inoculation amount  inducer concentration  induction starting time  induction duration  inducer adding mode and feeding strategy. results after activated in modified tb medium at 37°c for 8 h  the bib working seed was inoculated at 5% (v/v) and was induced for expression for another 11 h by the final concentration of 5 mmol/l lactose. in growth phase  glucose at rate of 80 ml/h was used as carbon source  and in induction phase  glycerol at rate of 40 ml/h was used as carbon source; ammonia water was added dropwise to control ph at about 7.0  and revolution speed is adjusted to control the dissolved oxygen at above 30%; ultimately the output of bacterial body was 70 g/l and protein expression amount was about 32%. conclusion after high cell density cultivation of the recombinant engineering bacteria  expression and yield of the target protein rbib significantly increased.
3982,tailoring nutritional advice for mexicans based on prevalence profiles of diet-related adaptive gene polymorphisms,diet-related adaptive gene (drag) polymorphisms identified in specific populations are associated with chronic disorders in carriers of the adaptive alleles due to changes in dietary and lifestyle patterns in recent times. mexico's population is comprised of amerindians (am) and mestizos who have variable am  european (eur) and african genetic ancestry and an increased risk of nutrition-related chronic diseases. nutritional advice based on the mexican genome and the traditional food culture is needed to develop preventive and therapeutic strategies. therefore  we aimed to provide a prevalence profile of several drag polymorphisms in the mexican population  including central west (cw) mexico subpopulations. geographic heat maps were built using arcgis10 (esri  redlands  ca  usa) software  based on the published data of the mthfr c677t (rs1801133)  abca1 arg230cys (rs9282541)  apoe t388c (rs429358)/c526t (rs7412)  lct c-13910t (rs4988235) polymorphisms and amy1 copy number variation (cnv). also  new data obtained by allelic discrimination-real-time polymerase chain reaction (rt-pcr) assays for the mthfr  abca1  and apoe polymorphisms as well as the amy1 cnv in the cw mexico subpopulations with different proportions of am and eur ancestry were included. in the cw region  the highest frequency of the mthfr 677t  abca1 230c and apoe ε4 adaptive alleles was observed in the am groups  followed by mestizos with intermediate am ancestry. the lct-13910t allele frequency was highest in mestizos-eur but extremely low in am  while the amy1 diploid copy number was 6.82 ± 3.3 copies. overall  the heat maps showed a heterogeneous distribution of the drag polymorphisms  in which the am groups revealed the highest frequencies of the adaptive alleles followed by mestizos. given these genetic differences  genome-based nutritional advice should be tailored in a regionalized and individualized manner according to the available foods and mexican traditional food culture that may lead to a healthier dietary pattern.
3984,randomized dose-finding clinical trial of oncolytic immunotherapeutic vaccinia jx-594 in liver cancer,oncolytic viruses and active immunotherapeutics have complementary mechanisms of action (moa) that are both self amplifying in tumors  yet the impact of dose on subject outcome is unclear. jx-594 (pexa-vec) is an oncolytic and immunotherapeutic vaccinia virus. to determine the optimal jx-594 dose in subjects with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc)  we conducted a randomized phase 2 dose-finding trial (n = 30). radiologists infused low- or high-dose jx-594 into liver tumors (days 1  15 and 29); infusions resulted in acute detectable intravascular jx-594 genomes. objective intrahepatic modified response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (mrecist) (15%) and choi (62%) response rates and intrahepatic disease control (50%) were equivalent in injected and distant noninjected tumors at both doses. jx-594 replication and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (gm-csf) expression preceded the induction of anticancer immunity. in contrast to tumor response rate and immune endpoints  subject survival duration was significantly related to dose (median survival of 14.1 months compared to 6.7 months on the high and low dose  respectively; hazard ratio 0.39; p = 0.020). jx-594 demonstrated oncolytic and immunotherapy moa  tumor responses and dose-related survival in individuals with hcc.
3986,rate of cervical cancer  severe intraepithelial neoplasia  and adenocarcinoma in situ in primary hpv dna screening with cytology triage: randomised study within organised screening programme.,objective to assess the performance and impact of primary human papillomavirus (hpv) dna screening with cytology triage compared with conventional cytology on cervical cancer and severe pre-cancerous lesions. design randomised trial. setting population based screening programme for cervical cancer in southern finland in 2003-5. participants 58 076 women  aged 30-60  invited to the routine population based screening programme for cervical cancer. interventions primary hpv dna test (hybrid capture ii) with cytology triage if the result was positive or conventional cytological screening (reference). main outcome measures rate of cervical cancer  cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin) grade iii  and adenocarcinoma in situ (as a composite outcome referred to as cin iii+) during 2003-7 through record linkage between files from the screening registry and the national cancer registry. results in the hpv and conventional arms there were 95 600 and 95 700 woman years of follow-up and 76 and 53 cases of cin iii+  respectively (of which six and eight were cervical cancers). the relative rate of cin iii+ in the hpv arm versus the conventional arm was 1.44 (95% confidence interval 1.01 to 2.05) among all women invited for screening and 1.77 (1.16 to 2.74) among those who attended. among women with a normal or negative test result  the relative rate of subsequent cin iii+ was 0.28 (0.04 to 1.17). the rate of cervical cancer between arms was 0.75 (0.25 to 2.16) among women invited for screening and 1.98 (0.52 to 9.38) among those who attended. conclusions when incorporated into a well established organised screening programme  primary hpv screening with cytology triage was more sensitive than conventional cytology in detecting cin iii+ lesions. the number of cases of cervical cancer was small  but considering the high probability of progression of cin iii the findings are of importance regarding cancer prevention. trial registration current controlled trials isrctn23885553.
3988,the fallacy of the ecological fallacy: the potential misuse of a concept and the consequences.,ecological studies have been evaluated in epidemiological contexts in terms of the "ecological fallacy. " although the empirical evidence for a lack of comparability between correlations derived from ecological- and individual-level analyses is compelling  the conceptual meaning of the ecological fallacy remains problematic. this paper argues that issues in cross-level inference can be usefully conceptualized as validity problems  problems not peculiar to ecological-level analyses. such an approach increases the recognition of both potential inference problems in individual-level studies and the unique contributions of ecological variables. this  in turn  expands the terrain for the location of causes for disease and interventions to improve the public's health.
3990,development and validation of qrisk3 risk prediction algorithms to estimate future risk of cardiovascular disease: prospective cohort study,objectives to develop and validate updated qrisk3 prediction algorithms to estimate the 10 year risk of cardiovascular disease in women and men accounting for potential new risk factors. design prospective open cohort study. setting general practices in england providing data for the qresearch database. participants 1309 qresearch general practices in england: 981 practices were used to develop the scores and a separate set of 328 practices were used to validate the scores. 7.89 million patients aged 25-84 years were in the derivation cohort and 2.67 million patients in the validation cohort. patients were free of cardiovascular disease and not prescribed statins at baseline. methods cox proportional hazards models in the derivation cohort to derive separate risk equations in men and women for evaluation at 10 years. risk factors considered included those already in qrisk2 (age  ethnicity  deprivation  systolic blood pressure  body mass index  total cholesterol: high density lipoprotein cholesterol ratio  smoking  family history of coronary heart disease in a first degree relative aged less than 60 years  type 1 diabetes  type 2 diabetes  treated hypertension  rheumatoid arthritis  atrial fibrillation  chronic kidney disease (stage 4 or 5)) and new risk factors (chronic kidney disease (stage 3  4  or 5)  a measure of systolic blood pressure variability (standard deviation of repeated measures)  migraine  corticosteroids  systemic lupus erythematosus (sle)  atypical antipsychotics  severe mental illness  and hiv/aids). we also considered erectile dysfunction diagnosis or treatment in men. measures of calibration and discrimination were determined in the validation cohort for men and women separately and for individual subgroups by age group  ethnicity  and baseline disease status. main outcome measures incident cardiovascular disease recorded on any of the following three linked data sources: general practice  mortality  or hospital admission records. results 363 565 incident cases of cardiovascular disease were identified in the derivation cohort during follow-up arising from 50.8 million person years of observation. all new risk factors considered met the model inclusion criteria except for hiv/aids  which was not statistically significant. the models had good calibration and high levels of explained variation and discrimination. in women  the algorithm explained 59.6% of the variation in time to diagnosis of cardiovascular disease (r2  with higher values indicating more variation)  and the d statistic was 2.48 and harrell's c statistic was 0.88 (both measures of discrimination  with higher values indicating better discrimination). the corresponding values for men were 54.8%  2.26  and 0.86. overall performance of the updated qrisk3 algorithms was similar to the qrisk2 algorithms. conclusion updated qrisk3 risk prediction models were developed and validated. the inclusion of additional clinical variables in qrisk3 (chronic kidney disease  a measure of systolic blood pressure variability (standard deviation of repeated measures)  migraine  corticosteroids  sle  atypical antipsychotics  severe mental illness  and erectile dysfunction) can help enable doctors to identify those at most risk of heart disease and stroke.
3992,histone acetyltransferase pcaf regulates inflammatory molecules in the development of renal injury.,kidney diseases  including chronic kidney disease (ckd) and acute kidney injury (aki)  are associated with inflammation. the mechanism that regulates inflammation in these renal injuries remains unclear. here  we demonstrated that p300/cbp-associated factor (pcaf)  a histone acetyltransferase  was overexpressed in the kidneys of db/db mice and lipopolysaccharide (lps)-injected mice. moreover  elevated histone acetylation  such as h3k18ac  and up-regulation of some inflammatory genes  such as icam-1  vcam-1  and mcp-1  were found upon these renal injuries. furthermore  increased h3k18ac was recruited to the promoters of icam-1  vcam-1  and mcp-1 in the kidneys of lps-injected mice. in vitro studies demonstrated that pcaf knockdown in human renal proximal tubule epithelial cells (hk-2) led to downregulation of inflammatory molecules  including vcam-1  icam-1  p50 subunit of nf-κb (p50)  and mcp-1 mrna and protein levels  together with significantly decreased h3k18ac level. consistent with these  overexpression of pcaf enhanced the expression of inflammatory molecules. furthermore  pcaf deficiency reduced palmitate-induced recruitment of h3k18ac on the promoters of icam-1 and mcp-1  as well as inhibited palmitate-induced upregulation of these inflammatory molecules. in summary  the present work demonstrates that pcaf plays an essential role in the regulation of inflammatory molecules through h3k18ac  which provides a potential therapeutic target for inflammation-related renal diseases.
3994,cytomegalovirus us2 destroys two components of the mhc class ii pathway  preventing recognition by cd4+ t cells,human cytomegalovirus (hcmv) is a ubiquitous herpesvirus that causes life-threatening disease in patients who are immunosuppressed for bone marrow or tissue transplantation or who have aids (ref. 1). hcmv establishes lifelong latent infections and  after periodic reactivation from latency  uses a panel of immune evasion proteins to survive and replicate in the face of robust  fully primed host immunity. monocyte/macrophages are important host cells for hcmv  serving as a latent reservoir and as a means of dissemination throughout the body. macrophages and other hcmv-permissive cells  such as endothelial and glial cells  can express mhc class ii proteins and present antigens to cd4+ t lymphocytes. here  we show that the hcmv protein us2 causes degradation of two essential proteins in the mhc class ii antigen presentation pathway: hla-dr-α and dm-α. this was unexpected  as us2 has been shown to cause degradation of mhc class i (refs. 5 6)  which has only limited homology with class ii proteins. expression of us2 in cells reduced or abolished their ability to present antigen to cd4+ t lymphocytes. thus  us2 may allow hcmv-infected macrophages to remain relatively 'invisible' to cd4+ t cells  a property that would be important after virus reactivation.
3996,emerging mechanisms in morphogen-mediated axon guidance.,early in animal development  gradients of secreted morphogenic molecules  such as sonic hedgehog (shh)  wnt and tgfbeta/bmp family members  regulate cell proliferation and determine the fate and phenotype of the target cells by activating well-characterized signalling pathways  which ultimately control gene transcription. shh  wnt and tgfbeta/bmp signalling also play an important and evolutionary conserved role in neural circuit assembly. they regulate neuronal polarization  axon and dendrite development and synaptogenesis  processes that require rapid and local changes in cytoskeletal organization and plasma membrane components. a key question then is whether morphogen signalling at the growth cone uses similar mechanisms and intracellular pathway components to those described for morphogen-mediated cell specification. this review discusses recent advances towards the understanding of this problem  showing how shh  wnt and tgfbeta/bmp have adapted their 'classical' signalling pathways or adopted alternative and novel molecular mechanisms to influence different aspects of neuronal circuit formation.
3998,autoradiography of chromosomal dna fibers from chinese hamster cells.,ignorance of the true length of the dna molecules in the chromosomes of higher organisms has always been a major obstacle to understanding chromosome structure. consequently  attempts have been made  usually with the aid of electron microscopy  to estimate the size of dna in higher organisms. solari (1) has reported the longest such dna measured before now-a dna fiber from a sea urchin sperm at least 93 μ  long.
4000,ccl2/monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 mediates enhanced transmigration of human immunodeficiency virus (hiv)-infected leukocytes across the blood-brain barrier: a potential mechanism of hiv-cns invasion and neuroaids.,encephalitis and dementia associated with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (aids) are characterized by leukocyte infiltration into the cns  microglia activation  aberrant chemokine expression  blood-brain barrier (bbb) disruption  and eventual loss of neurons. little is known about whether human immunodeficiency virus 1 (hiv-1) infection of leukocytes affects their ability to transmigrate in response to chemokines and to alter bbb integrity. we now demonstrate that hiv infection of human leukocytes results in their increased transmigration across our tissue culture model of the human bbb in response to the chemokine ccl2  as well as in disruption of the bbb  as evidenced by enhanced permeability  reduction of tight junction proteins  and expression of matrix metalloproteinases (mmp)-2 and mmp-9. hiv-infected cells added to our model did not transmigrate in the absence of ccl2  nor did this condition alter bbb integrity. the chemokines cxcl10/interferon-gamma-inducible protein of 10 kda  ccl3/macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha  or ccl5/rantes (regulated on activation normal t-cell expressed and secreted) did not enhance hiv-infected leukocyte transmigration or bbb permeability. the increased capacity of hiv-infected leukocytes to transmigrate in response to ccl2 correlated with their increased expression of ccr2  the chemokine receptor for ccl2. these data suggest that ccl2  but not other chemokines  plays a key role in infiltration of hiv-infected leukocytes into the cns and the subsequent pathology characteristic of neuroaids.
4002,association of dna polymerase mu (pol mu) with ku and ligase iv: role for pol mu in end-joining double-strand break repair.,mammalian dna polymerase mu (pol mu) is related to terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase  but its biological role is not yet clear. we show here that after exposure of cells to ionizing radiation (ir)  levels of pol mu protein increase. pol mu also forms discrete nuclear foci after ir  and these foci are largely coincident with ir-induced foci of gammah2ax  a previously characterized marker of sites of dna double-strand breaks. pol mu is thus part of the cellular response to dna double-strand breaks. pol mu also associates in cell extracts with the nonhomologous end-joining repair factor ku and requires both ku and another end-joining factor  xrcc4-ligase iv  to form a stable complex on dna in vitro. pol mu in turn facilitates both stable recruitment of xrcc4-ligase iv to ku-bound dna and ligase iv-dependent end joining. in contrast  the related mammalian dna polymerase beta does not form a complex with ku and xrcc4-ligase iv and is less effective than pol mu in facilitating joining mediated by these factors. our data thus support an important role for pol mu in the end-joining pathway for repair of double-strand breaks.
4004,oxidative stress in renal dysfunction: mechanisms  clinical sequelae and therapeutic options,oxidative stress has been increasingly linked to the high incidence of cardiovascular events in patients with chronic kidney disease (ckd)  especially as traditional cardiovascular risk factors seem to not be able to account for the huge cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in this population group. oxidative stress is increased in patients with renal impairment as a result of increased oxidant activity and reduced antioxidant capacity  and this is increased in a graded manner with increasing renal dysfunction. inflammation  which is also present in ckd  further amplifies the oxidant generation process. the two clinical sequelae of oxidative stress are endothelial dysfunction and left ventricular hypertrophy  which have adverse cardiovascular consequences. with our new understanding of oxidative stress  it is now important to assess treatment options that reduce it in the hope that they reverse endothelial dysfunction and left ventricular hypertrophy and the clinical sequelae of these abnormalities.
4006,transcriptional integration of mitochondrial biogenesis.,gene regulatory factors encoded by the nuclear genome are essential for mitochondrial biogenesis and function. some of these factors act exclusively within the mitochondria to regulate the control of mitochondrial transcription  translation  and other functions. others govern the expression of nuclear genes required for mitochondrial metabolism and organelle biogenesis. the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ coactivator-1 (pgc-1) family of transcriptional coactivators play a major role in transducing and integrating physiological signals governing metabolism  differentiation  and cell growth to the transcriptional machinery controlling mitochondrial functional capacity. thus  the pgc-1 coactivators serve as a central component of the transcriptional regulatory circuitry that coordinately controls the energy-generating functions of mitochondria in accordance with the metabolic demands imposed by changing physiological conditions  senescence  and disease.
4008,musculoskeletal pain in europe: its impact and a comparison of population and medical perceptions of treatment in eight european countries.,objectives to describe the impact of musculoskeletal pain (mp); to compare management of mp by the population and by primary care physicians; and to identify misconceptions about treatment. methods 5803 people with mp and 1483 primary care physicians  randomly selected  in eight european countries were interviewed by telephone. a structured questionnaire was used to ask about usual management of mp and perceived benefits and risks of treatment. current health status (sf-12) was also assessed. results from primary care physicians' perceptions  mp appears to be well managed. all presenting patients are offered some form of treatment  90% or more doctors are trying to improve patients' quality of life  and most are aware and concerned about the risks of treatment with nsaids. from a population perspective  up to 27% of people with pain do not seek medical help and of those who do  several wait months/years before seeing a doctor. 55% or fewer patients who have seen a doctor are currently receiving prescription treatment for their pain. communication between doctors and patients is poor; few patients are given information about their condition; and many have misconceptions about treatment. conclusions management of mp is similar across eight european countries  but there is discordance between physician and patient perspectives of care. some people with pain have never sought medical help despite being in constant/daily pain. those who do seek help receive little written information or explanation and many have misperceptions about the benefits and risks of treatment that limit their ability to actively participate in decisions about their care.
4010,a view to a kill: the bacterial type vi secretion system.,the bacterial type vi secretion system (t6ss) is an organelle that is structurally and mechanistically analogous to an intracellular membrane-attached contractile phage tail. recent studies determined that a rapid conformational change in the structure of a sheath protein complex propels t6ss spike and tube components along with antibacterial and antieukaryotic effectors out of predatory t6ss(+) cells and into prey cells. the contracted organelle is then recycled in an atp-dependent process. t6ss is regulated at transcriptional and posttranslational levels  the latter involving detection of membrane perturbation in some species. in addition to directly targeting eukaryotic cells  the t6ss can also target other bacteria coinfecting a mammalian host  highlighting the importance of the t6ss not only for bacterial survival in environmental ecosystems  but also in the context of infection and disease. this review highlights these and other advances in our understanding of the structure  mechanical function  assembly  and regulation of the t6ss.
4012,serum immunoglobulin a from patients with celiac disease inhibits human t84 intestinal crypt epithelial cell differentiation.,background & aims celiac disease is characterized by disturbed jejunal crypt-villus axis biology with immunoglobulin (ig) a deposits underlining the epithelium. the aim of this study was to test whether celiac disease serum iga (reticulin/endomysial autoantibodies) interferes with the mesenchymal-epithelial cell cross-talk. methods differentiation of t84 epithelial cells was induced with imr-90 fibroblasts or transforming growth factor beta in three-dimensional collagen gel cultures. the effects of purified celiac iga and monoclonal tissue transglutaminase antibodies (cub7402) were studied by adding the antibodies to the cocultures. results active celiac disease iga  reactive for tissue transglutaminase  significantly inhibited t84 epithelial cell differentiation (p < 0.001) and increased epithelial cell proliferation (p = 0.024). similar effects were obtained with antibodies against tissue transglutaminase. conclusions celiac disease-associated iga class antibodies disturb transforming growth factor beta-mediated fibroblast-epithelial cell cross-talk in this in vitro crypt-villus axis model. this primary finding indicates that celiac disease-specific autoantibodies may also contribute to the formation of the gluten-triggered jejunal mucosal lesion in celiac disease.
4014,the common marmoset as a novel animal model system for biomedical and neuroscience research applications.,the common marmoset (callithrix jacchus)  a small new world primate  has been attracting much attention in the research field of biomedical science and neuroscience  based on its (i) cross-reactivity with human cytokines or hormones  (ii) comparative ease in handling due to its small size  (iii) high reproductive efficiency  (iv) establishment of basic research tools  and (v) advantages of its unique behavioral and cognitive characters. various neurological disease models have been developed in the common marmoset  including parkinson's disease  huntington's disease  alzheimer's disease  stroke  multiple sclerosis and spinal cord injury. we recently developed transgenic common marmoset with germline transmission  which is expected to provide a new animal model for the study of human diseases. in this review  we summarize the recent progress of biomedical research and neuroscience using common marmoset as an excellent model system.
4016,checkpoint responses to replication fork barriers.,the fidelity of dna replication is of paramount importance to the maintenance of genome integrity. when an active replication fork is perturbed  multiple cellular pathways are recruited to stabilize the replication apparatus and to help to bypass or correct the causative problem. however  if the problem is not corrected  the fork may collapse  exposing free dna ends to potentially inappropriate processing. in prokaryotes  replication fork collapse promotes the activity of recombination proteins to restore a replication fork. recent work has demonstrated that recombination is also intimately linked to replication in eukaryotic cells  and that recombination proteins are recruited to collapsed  but not stalled  replication forks. in this review we discuss the different types of potential replication fork barriers (rfb) and how these distinct rfbs can result in different dna structures at the stalled replication fork. the dna structure checkpoints which act within s phase respond to different rfbs in different ways and we thus discuss the processes that are controlled by the dna replication checkpoints  paying particular attention to the function of the intra-s phase checkpoint that stabilises the stalled fork.
4018,global and regional risk of disabling sequelae from bacterial meningitis: a systematic review and meta-analysis.,few data sources are available to assess the global and regional risk of sequelae from bacterial meningitis. we aimed to estimate the risks of major and minor sequelae caused by bacterial meningitis  estimate the distribution of the different types of sequelae  and compare risk by region and income. we systematically reviewed published papers from 1980 to 2008. standard global burden of disease categories (cognitive deficit  bilateral hearing loss  motor deficit  seizures  visual impairment  hydrocephalus) were labelled as major sequelae. less severe  minor sequelae (behavioural problems  learning difficulties  unilateral hearing loss  hypotonia  diplopia)  and multiple impairments were also included. 132 papers were selected for inclusion. the median (iqr) risk of at least one major or minor sequela after hospital discharge was 19.9% (12.3-35.3%). the risk of at least one major sequela was 12.8% (7.2-21.1%) and of at least one minor sequela was 8.6% (4.4-15.3%). the median (iqr) risk of at least one major sequela was 24.7% (16.2-35.3%) in pneumococcal meningitis; 9.5% (7.1-15.3%) in haemophilus influenzae type b (hib)  and 7.2% (4.3-11.2%) in meningococcal meningitis. the most common major sequela was hearing loss (33.9%)  and 19.7% had multiple impairments. in the random-effects meta-analysis  all-cause risk of a major sequela was twice as high in the african (pooled risk estimate 25.1% [95% ci 18.9-32.0%]) and southeast asian regions (21.6% [95% ci 13.1-31.5%]) as in the european region (9.4% [95% ci 7.0-12.3%]; overall i(2)=89.5%  p<0.0001). risks of long-term disabling sequelae were highest in low-income countries  where the burden of bacterial meningitis is greatest. most reported sequelae could have been averted by vaccination with hib  pneumococcal  and meningococcal vaccines.
4020,microcytosis  iron deficiency and thalassaemia in a multi-ethnic community: a pilot study.,the high prevalence of microcytosis (defined here as mean cell haemoglobin<27 pg) with no other abnormality is a principal cause of confusion in screening for haemoglobin disorders. here we report the results of a small pilot study aiming to resolve this confusion by routinely proceeding to plasma ferritin and hplc assay  using the original sequestrene blood sample  when microcytosis is detected. participants comprised a random sample of 1 302 people referred for a full blood count by their general practitioner (gp) to the laboratory of a north london district general hospital serving a multi-ethnic inner-city population. ethnicity was established by questionnaire. in north europeans  microcytosis was present in 3% of males (half were iron-deficient) and 11% of females (most were iron-deficient). among ethnic minorities  microcytosis was present in 35% of males (one tenth were iron-deficient)  and 45% of females (less than half were iron-deficient): an exclusion diagnosis of "probable alpha thalassaemia" could be made in the remainder. we conclude that when microcytosis is present  routine further analysis of the original sequestrene sample by plasma ferritin assay and haemoglobinopathy screening could lead to a more efficient and cost-effective laboratory service for primary care and maternity services.
4022,characteristics of a monoclonal antibody (rm124) against acute myelocytic leukemia cells.,a monoclonal antibody was raised against cells from an experimental rat myelocytic leukemia (bnml). the major characteristics of the rat leukemia model resemble those of human acute myelocytic leukemia. the monoclonal antibody (mca) rm124 was characterized with respect to its labeling pattern of bnml leukemia cells  normal rat bone marrow cells  and the hemopoietic stem cell (hsc)  by flow cytometric methods and complement-dependent cytotoxicity assays. flow cytometry revealed a much higher labeling of the leukemic cells by the mca-rm124 compared with normal bone marrow cells  including cfu-s and cfu-c. only a subpopulation of the normal granulocytes showed cross reactivity  however  at a lower labeling density. on using the cytotoxicity assays  it was evident that there was a selective killing of leukemic cells as compared with the activity towards the normal hemopoietic stem cells (cfu-s).
4024,silver sulfadiazine for the treatment of partial-thickness burns and venous stasis ulcers.,background for decades silver-containing antibiotics such as silver sulfadiazine (ssd) have been applied as standard topical therapy for patients with partial-thickness burns and venous stasis ulcers. this evidence-based review intends to answer the following research question: in ambulatory patients with partial-thickness burns or stasis dermatitis ulcers  does the use of topical ssd compared with nonantibiotic dressings improve mortality  wound healing  re-epithelialization  or infection rates? methods medline  embase  cochrane library  and other databases were searched. we considered trials that enrolled patients of any age with partial-thickness burns or venous stasis ulcers and randomized them to either topical ssd or placebo  saline-soaked gauze  paraffin gauze  sterile dry dressing  or nonantibiotic moist dressing. outcomes included mortality  wound healing  speed of re-epithelialization  and infection rates. results for burns  our search revealed 400 potential articles. no human studies met the inclusion criteria. only 7 animal studies (1 mouse  4 rat  and 2 pig) were relevant to the proposed question. these animal studies provided conflicting results. whereas some support the use of ssd for treatment of partial-thickness burns  others question its effectiveness. for stasis dermatitis ulcer  the search identified 50 articles for review  of which 20 abstracts were reviewed  and one article met the inclusion criteria. this study did not show any significant improvement in the rate of complete healing in ssd group compared with placebo either at 4 weeks (relative risk 6.2  95% confidence interval 0.8-48) or at 1 year (relative risk 5.2  95% confidence interval 0.6-41.6) of follow-up. conclusion there is insufficient evidence to either support or refute the routine use of ssd for ambulatory patients with either partial-thickness burns or stasis dermatitis ulcers to decrease mortality  prevent infection  or augment wound healing in human beings.
4026,modeling the evolution of culture-adapted human embryonic stem cells.,the long-term culture of human embryonic stem (es) cells is inevitably subject to evolution  since any mutant that arises with a growth advantage will be selectively amplified. however  the evolutionary influences of population size  mutation rate  and selection pressure are frequently overlooked. we have constructed a monte carlo simulation model to predict how changes in these factors can influence the appearance and spread of mutant es cells  and verified its applicability by comparison with in vitro data. this simulation provides an estimate for the expected rate of generation of culture-adapted es cells under different assumptions for the key parameters. in particular  it highlights the effect of population size  suggesting that the maintenance of cells in small populations reduces the likelihood that abnormal cultures will develop.
4028,netting neutrophils are major inducers of type i ifn production in pediatric systemic lupus erythematosus.,systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) is a systemic autoimmune disease characterized by a breakdown of tolerance to nuclear antigens and the development of immune complexes. genomic approaches have shown that human sle leukocytes homogeneously express type i interferon (ifn)-induced and neutrophil-related transcripts. increased production and/or bioavailability of ifn-α and associated alterations in dendritic cell (dc) homeostasis have been linked to lupus pathogenesis. although neutrophils have long been shown to be associated with lupus  their potential role in disease pathogenesis remains elusive. here  we show that mature sle neutrophils are primed in vivo by type i ifn and die upon exposure to sle-derived anti-ribonucleoprotein antibodies  releasing neutrophil extracellular traps (nets). sle nets contain dna as well as large amounts of ll37 and hmgb1  neutrophil proteins that facilitate the uptake and recognition of mammalian dna by plasmacytoid dcs (pdcs). indeed  sle nets activate pdcs to produce high levels of ifn-α in a dna- and tlr9 (toll-like receptor 9)-dependent manner. our results reveal an unsuspected role for neutrophils in sle pathogenesis and identify a novel link between nucleic acid-recognizing antibodies and type i ifn production in this disease.
4030,the glyoxal bis(2-hydroxyanil) method modified for localizing insoluble calcium salts.,to enable staining of insoluble calcium salts with glyoxal bis(2-hydroxyanil) (gbha)  the original solution containing 2 ml of 0.4% gbha in absolute ethanol  and 0.3 ml of aqueous 5% naoh  and limited to staining only soluble calcium salts  was modified as follows: 1  2 ml of 0.4% gbha in absolute ethanol in 0.6 ml of 10% aqueous naoh; 11  0.1 gm gbha in 2 ml of 3.4% naoh in 75% ethanol. to prevent diffusion and loss of calcium  the tissues were processed by the freeze-substitution or freeze-dry method and sections stained without removing the paraffin. modification i is effective only when 1 or 2 drops placed on the section are evaporated gradually to dryness  concentrating the gbha and naoh on the insoluble calcium salts. modification ii is effective when dried or poured on the the section and allowed to stain for 5 min. the stained slides are immersed for 15 min in 90% ethanol saturated with kcn and na2co3 for specificity to calcium; rinsed and counterstained in 95% ethanol containing 0.1% each of fast...
4032,a balance between secreted inhibitors and edge sensing controls gastruloid self-organization.,the earliest aspects of human embryogenesis remain mysterious. to model patterning events in the human embryo  we used colonies of human embryonic stem cells (hescs) grown on micropatterned substrate and differentiated with bmp4. these gastruloids recapitulate the embryonic arrangement of the mammalian germ layers and provide an assay to assess the structural and signaling mechanisms patterning the human gastrula. structurally  high-density hescs localize their receptors to transforming growth factor β at their lateral side in the center of the colony while maintaining apical localization of receptors at the edge. this relocalization insulates cells at the center from apically applied ligands while maintaining response to basally presented ones. in addition  bmp4 directly induces the expression of its own inhibitor  noggin  generating a reaction-diffusion mechanism that underlies patterning. we develop a quantitative model that integrates edge sensing and inhibitors to predict human fate positioning in gastruloids and  potentially  the human embryo.
4034,schedule-dependent interaction between anticancer treatments,the oncogene mdmx is overexpressed in many cancers  leading to suppression of the tumor suppressor p53. inhibitors of the oncogene product mdmx therefore might help reactivate p53 and enhance the efficacy of dna-damaging drugs. however  we currently lack a quantitative understanding of how mdmx inhibition affects the p53 signaling pathway and cell sensitivity to dna damage. live cell imaging showed that mdmx depletion triggered two distinct phases of p53 accumulation in single cells: an initial postmitotic pulse  followed by low-amplitude oscillations. the response to dna damage was sharply different in these two phases; in the first phase  mdmx depletion was synergistic with dna damage in causing cell death  whereas in the second phase  depletion of mdmx inhibited cell death. thus a quantitative understanding of signal dynamics and cellular states is important for designing an optimal schedule of dual-drug administration.
4036,the role of neutrophils in the pathogenesis of systemic lupus erythematosus.,purpose of review recent discoveries implicate neutrophils as important regulators of innate and adaptive immunity and in the development of organ damage in systemic autoimmune diseases  including systemic lupus erythematosus (sle). recent findings various putative sle biomarkers are neutrophil-related  including neutrophil granular proteins and histones undergoing post-translational modifications during neutrophil extracellular trap (net) formation. in the bone marrow  lupus neutrophils can drive b and t cell abnormalities  at least in part  by their enhanced production of type-i interferons  tumor necrosis factor-alpha (tnfα) and the b-cell stimulating factors b-cell activating factor (baff) and a proliferation-inducing ligand (april). lupus neutrophils and  in particular  lupus low-density granulocytes (a distinct pathogenic subset) display epigenetic modifications and genomic alterations that may be relevant to their deleterious roles in sle. proteins and enzymes externalized by lupus nets can affect vascular health by inducing endothelial apoptosis and oxidizing lipoproteins. hampering net formation through peptidylarginine deiminase inhibitors abrogates lupus phenotype and atherosclerosis in murine studies. summary recent discoveries support the notion that neutrophils  low-density granulocytes and aberrant net formation and clearance play important roles in lupus pathogenesis. future studies should focus on how to selectively target these immunostimulatory pathways in this disease.
4038,a unified concept of species and its consequences for the future of taxonomy,contemporary species concepts are diverse. nonetheless  all share the fundamental idea that species are segments of lineages at the population level of biological organization. they differ in the secondary properties (e.g.  intrinsic reproductive isolation  monophyly  diagnosability) that are treated as necessary for considering lineages to be species. a unified species concept can be achieved by interpreting the common fundamental idea of being a separately evolving lineage segment as the only necessary property of species and viewing the various secondary properties either as lines of evidence relevant to assessing lineage separation or as properties that define different subcategories of the species category (e.g.  reproductively isolated species  monophyletic species  diagnosable species). this unified species concept has a number of consequences for taxonomy  including the need to acknowledge that undifferentiated and undiagnosable lineages are species  that species can fuse  that species can be nested within other species  that the species category is not a taxonomic rank  and that new taxonomic practices and conventions are needed to accommodate these conclusions. although acceptance of a unified species concept has some radical consequences for taxonomy  it also reflects a change in the general conceptualization of the species category that has been underway for more than a half-century — a shift from viewing the species category as one member of the hierarchy of taxonomic ranks to viewing it as a natural kind whose members are the units at one of the levels of biological organization. this change is related to a more general shift in the primary concern of the discipline of systematics (including taxonomy)  from the utilitarian activity of classifying organisms to the scientific activity of testing hypotheses about lineage boundaries and phylogenetic relationships. the unified species concept is a natural outcome of this conceptual shift and represents the more complete acceptance of the idea that species are one of the fundamental units of biology. as such  the unified species concept is central to the future of taxonomy.
4040,core binding factors are necessary for natural killer cell development and cooperate with notch signaling during t-cell specification.,cbfbeta is the non-dna binding subunit of the core binding factors (cbfs). mice with reduced cbfbeta levels display profound  early defects in t-cell but not b-cell development. here we show that cbfbeta is also required at very early stages of natural killer (nk)-cell development. we also demonstrate that t-cell development aborts during specification  as the expression of gata3 and tcf7  which encode key regulators of t lineage specification  is substantially reduced  as are functional thymic progenitors. constitutively active notch or il-7 signaling cannot restore t-cell expansion or differentiation of cbfbeta insufficient cells  nor can overexpression of runx1 or cbfbeta overcome a lack of notch signaling. therefore  the ability of the prethymic cell to respond appropriately to notch is dependent on cbfbeta  and both signals converge to activate the t-cell developmental program.
4042,detection and distribution patterns of telomerase activity in insects.,telomeres of most insects consist of pentanucleotide (ttagg)n repeats  although the repeats are absent in diptera and some other insect species  where the telomere regions are perhaps maintained without telomerase. to understand various and unusual telomere formation in insects  we have studied the characteristic features of a putative insect telomerase that has not been previously described. using a modified telomeric repeat amplification protocol (trap)  we first detected the telomerase activity in crickets  cockroaches and two lepidopteran insects. the telomerase from crickets and cockroaches required datp  dgtp and dttp but not dctp as a substrate and sequence analyses of the products of trap revealed that the (ttagg)n repeats are synthesized by telomerase. the cockroach telomerase was detected both in somatic (fat body  muscle and neural tissues) and germ line (testis) cells  suggesting that expression of this enzyme is not regulated in a tissue-specific manner at an adult stage. while we detected high levels of telomerase activity in crickets and cockroaches  we could not detect activity in all tissues and cell cultures of the silkworm  bombyx mori and in two drosophila and one sarcophaga cell lines. this supports the theory that dipteran insects maintain their telomeres without telomerase.
4044,antigen availability determines cd8⁺ t cell-dendritic cell interaction kinetics and memory fate decisions.,t cells are activated by antigen (ag)-bearing dendritic cells (dcs) in lymph nodes in three phases. the duration of the initial phase of transient  serial dc-t cell interactions is inversely correlated with ag dose. the second phase  characterized by stable dc-t cell contacts  is believed to be necessary for full-fledged t cell activation. here we have shown that this is not the case. cd8⁺ t cells interacting with dcs presenting low-dose  short-lived ag did not transition to phase 2  whereas higher ag dose yielded phase 2 transition. both antigenic constellations promoted t cell proliferation and effector differentiation but yielded different transcriptome signatures at 12 hr and 24 hr. t cells that experienced phase 2 developed long-lived memory  whereas conditions without stable contacts yielded immunological amnesia. thus  t cells make fate decisions within hours after ag exposure  resulting in long-term memory or abortive effector responses  correlating with t cell-dcs interaction kinetics.
4046,site of action of a ribosomal rna methylase responsible for resistance to erythromycin and other antibiotics.,the enzyme which confers resistance to erythromycin in the producing organism streptomyces erythraeus dimethylates a single adenine residue in bacillus stearothermophilus 23 s rrna. this corresponds to residue ade 2058 in escherichia coli 23 s rna. the methylase responsible for resistance to macrolides  lincomycin  and streptogramin b-related antibiotics in staphylococcus aureus also acts at this site.
4048,targeted inhibition of tumor-specific glutaminase diminishes cell-autonomous tumorigenesis.,glutaminase (gls)  which converts glutamine to glutamate  plays a key role in cancer cell metabolism  growth  and proliferation. gls is being explored as a cancer therapeutic target  but whether gls inhibitors affect cancer cell-autonomous growth or the host microenvironment or have off-target effects is unknown. here  we report that loss of one copy of gls blunted tumor progression in an immune-competent myc-mediated mouse model of hepatocellular carcinoma. compared with results in untreated animals with myc-induced hepatocellular carcinoma  administration of the gls-specific inhibitor bis-2-(5-phenylacetamido-1 3 4-thiadiazol-2-yl)ethyl sulfide (bptes) prolonged survival without any apparent toxicities. bptes also inhibited growth of a myc-dependent human b cell lymphoma cell line (p493) by blocking dna replication  leading to cell death and fragmentation. in mice harboring p493 tumor xenografts  bptes treatment inhibited tumor cell growth; however  p493 xenografts expressing a bptes-resistant gls mutant (gls-k325a) or overexpressing gls were not affected by bptes treatment. moreover  a customized vivo-morpholino that targets human gls mrna markedly inhibited p493 xenograft growth without affecting mouse gls expression. conversely  a vivo-morpholino directed at mouse gls had no antitumor activity in vivo. collectively  our studies demonstrate that gls is required for tumorigenesis and support small molecule and genetic inhibition of gls as potential approaches for targeting the tumor cell-autonomous dependence on gls for cancer therapy.
4050,dynein is required for polarized dendritic transport and uniform microtubule orientation in axons,axons and dendrites differ in both microtubule organization and in the organelles and proteins they contain. here we show that the microtubule motor dynein has a crucial role in polarized transport and in controlling the orientation of axonal microtubules in drosophila melanogaster dendritic arborization (da) neurons. changes in organelle distribution within the dendritic arbors of dynein mutant neurons correlate with a proximal shift in dendritic branch position. dynein is also necessary for the dendrite-specific localization of golgi outposts and the ion channel pickpocket. axonal microtubules are normally oriented uniformly plus-end-distal; however  without dynein  axons contain both plus- and minus-end distal microtubules. these data suggest that dynein is required for the distinguishing properties of the axon and dendrites: without dynein  dendritic organelles and proteins enter the axon and the axonal microtubules are no longer uniform in polarity.
4052,gene expression during gonadogenesis in the chicken embryo.,genes implicated in vertebrate sex determination and differentiation were studied in embryonic chicken gonads using reverse transcription and the polymerase chain reaction (rt-pcr). expression profiles were obtained during gonadal sex differentiation for amh  sox9  sox3  the wilm's tumour gene  wt1  and the orphan nuclear receptor genes  sf1 and dax1. some of these genes showed sexually dimorphic expression profiles during gonadal development  whereas others were expressed at similar levels in both sexes. the gene encoding anti-müllerian hormone (amh) was expressed in both sexes prior to and during sexual differentiation of the gonads  with levels of expression consistently higher in males than in females. sox9 expression was male-specific  and was up-regulated after the detection of amh transcripts. sox3 expression was observed prior to clear sox9 expression and was up-regulated in both sexes at the onset of gonadal sex differentiation (but declined later in development). the wt1 gene was highly expressed in both sexes  whereas sf1 expression was clearly higher in developing ovaries compared to testes. dax1 transcripts were observed in both sexes at all stages examined  but expression appeared somewhat higher in developing ovaries. these expression profiles are analysed in terms of current theories of vertebrate sex determination.
4054,drug induced refractory headache--clinical features and management.,two hundred patients who were taking daily symptomatic or immediate relief medications  often in excessive quantities  yet suffering from daily or near daily severe headaches were studied. one hundred and sixteen (58%) of them were also taking concomitant prophylactic medications and they were ineffective. low tyramine  low caffeine dietary instructions and biofeedback training were given to all patients. the effect of continuing symptomatic medications  discontinuing symptomatic medications  and adding or changing prophylactic medications were studied in the various treatment groups. it is concluded that; 1.) daily use of symptomatic or immediate relief medications result in chronic daily headache. 2.) discontinuing daily symptomatic medications itself result in improvement of headache. 3.) concomitant use of symptomatic medications nullifies the effect of prophylactic medications. 4.) discontinuing daily symptomatic medications enhances the beneficial effect of prophylactic medications.
4056,mutation frequency and specificity with age in liver  bladder and brain of laci transgenic mice.,mutation frequency and specificity were determined as a function of age in nuclear dna from liver  bladder  and brain of big blue laci transgenic mice aged 1.5-25 months. mutations accumulated with age in liver and accumulated more rapidly in bladder. in the brain a small initial increase in mutation frequency was observed in young animals; however  no further increase was observed in adult mice. to investigate the origin of mutations  the mutational spectra for each tissue and age were determined. dna sequence analysis of mutant laci transgenes revealed no significant changes in mutational specificity in any tissue at any age. the spectra of mutations found in aging animals were identical to those in younger animals  suggesting that they originated from a common set of dna lesions manifested during dna replication. the data also indicated that there were no significant age-related mutational changes due to oxidative damage  or errors resulting from either changes in the fidelity of dna polymerase or the efficiency of dna repair. hence  no evidence was found to support hypotheses that predict that oxidative damage or accumulation of errors in nuclear dna contributes significantly to the aging process  at least in these three somatic tissues.
4058,soluble md-2 is an acute-phase protein and an opsonin for gram-negative bacteria.,myeloid differentiation factor-2 (md-2) is a lipopolysaccharide (lps)-binding protein usually coexpressed with and binding to toll-like receptor 4 (tlr4)  conferring lps responsiveness of immune cells. md-2 is also found as a soluble protein. soluble md-2 (smd-2) levels are markedly elevated in plasma from patients with severe infections  and in other fluids from inflamed tissues. we show that smd-2 is a type ii acute-phase protein. soluble md-2 mrna and protein levels are up-regulated in mouse liver after the induction of an acute-phase response. it is secreted by human hepatocytic cells and up-regulated by interleukin-6. soluble md-2 binds to gram-negative but not gram-positive bacteria  and smd-2 secreted by hepatocytic cells is an essential cofactor for the activation of tlr4-expressing cells by gram-negative bacteria. soluble md-2 opsonization of gram-negative bacteria accelerates and enhances phagocytosis  principally by polymorphonuclear neutrophils. in summary  our results demonstrate that smd-2 is a newly recognized type ii acute-phase reactant  an opsonin for gram-negative bacteria  and a cofactor essential for the activation of tlr4-expressing cells. this suggests that smd-2 plays a key role in the host innate immune response to gram-negative infections.
4060,p19 embryonal carcinoma cells.,p19 cells are a line of pluripotent embryonal carcinoma able to grow continuously in serum-supplemented media. the differentiation of these cells can be controlled by nontoxic drugs. retinoic acid effectively induces the development of neurons  astroglia and microglia--cell types normally derived from the neuroectoderm. aggregates of p19 cells exposed to dimethyl sulfoxide differentiate into endodermal and mesodermal derivatives including cardiac and skeletal muscle. p19 cells can be effectively transfected with dna encoding recombinant genes and stable lines expressing these genes can be readily isolated. these manipulations make p19 cells suitable material for investigating the molecular mechanisms governing developmental decision made by differentiating pluripotent cells.
4062,siblings with opposite chromosome constitutions  dup(2q)/del(7q) and del(2q)/dup(7q).,chromosome 7q36 microdeletion syndrome is a rare genomic disorder characterized by underdevelopment of the brain  microcephaly  anomalies of the sex organs  and language problems. developmental delay  intellectual disability  autistic spectrum disorders  bdmr syndrome  and unusual facial morphology are the key features of the chromosome 2q37 microdeletion syndrome. a genetic screening for two brothers with global developmental delay using high-resolution chromosomal analysis and subtelomeric multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification revealed subtelomeric rearrangements on the same sites of 2q37.2 and 7q35  with reversed deletion and duplication. both of them showed dysmorphic facial features  severe disability of physical and intellectual development  and abnormal genitalia with differential abnormalities in their phenotypes. the family did not have abnormal genetic phenotypes. according to the genetic analysis of their parents  adjacent-1 segregation from their mother's was suggested as a mechanism of their gene mutation. by comparing the phenotypes of our patients with previous reports on similar patients  we tried to obtain the information of related genes and their chromosomal locations.
4064,identification of functional cooperative mutations of setd2 in human acute leukemia,acute leukemia characterized by chromosomal rearrangements requires additional molecular disruptions to develop into full-blown malignancy  yet the cooperative mechanisms remain elusive. using whole-genome sequencing of a pair of monozygotic twins discordant for mll (also called kmt2a) gene–rearranged leukemia  we identified a transforming mll-nrip3 fusion gene and biallelic mutations in setd2 (encoding a histone h3k36 methyltransferase). moreover  loss-of-function point mutations in setd2 were recurrent (6.2%) in 241 patients with acute leukemia and were associated with multiple major chromosomal aberrations. we observed a global loss of h3k36 trimethylation (h3k36me3) in leukemic blasts with mutations in setd2. in the presence of a genetic lesion  downregulation of setd2 contributed to both initiation and progression during leukemia development by promoting the self-renewal potential of leukemia stem cells. therefore  our study provides compelling evidence for setd2 as a new tumor suppressor. disruption of the setd2-h3k36me3 pathway is a distinct epigenetic mechanism for leukemia development.
4066,international standards for fetal growth based on serial ultrasound measurements: the fetal growth longitudinal study of the intergrowth-21st project.,background in 2006  who produced international growth standards for infants and children up to age 5 years on the basis of recommendations from a who expert committee. using the same methods and conceptual approach  the fetal growth longitudinal study (fgls)  part of the intergrowth-21(st) project  aimed to develop international growth and size standards for fetuses. methods the multicentre  population-based fgls assessed fetal growth in geographically defined urban populations in eight countries  in which most of the health and nutritional needs of mothers were met and adequate antenatal care was provided. we used ultrasound to take fetal anthropometric measurements prospectively from 14 weeks and 0 days of gestation until birth in a cohort of women with adequate health and nutritional status who were at low risk of intrauterine growth restriction. all women had a reliable estimate of gestational age confirmed by ultrasound measurement of fetal crown-rump length in the first trimester. the five primary ultrasound measures of fetal growth--head circumference  biparietal diameter  occipitofrontal diameter  abdominal circumference  and femur length--were obtained every 5 weeks (within 1 week either side) from 14 weeks to 42 weeks of gestation. the best fitting curves for the five measures were selected using second-degree fractional polynomials and further modelled in a multilevel framework to account for the longitudinal design of the study. findings we screened 13 108 women commencing antenatal care at less than 14 weeks and 0 days of gestation  of whom 4607 (35%) were eligible. 4321 (94%) eligible women had pregnancies without major complications and delivered live singletons without congenital malformations (the analysis population). we documented very low maternal and perinatal mortality and morbidity  confirming that the participants were at low risk of adverse outcomes. for each of the five fetal growth measures  the mean differences between the observed and smoothed centiles for the 3rd  50th  and 97th centiles  respectively  were small: 2·25 mm (sd 3·0)  0·02 mm (3·0)  and -2·69 mm (3·2) for head circumference; 0·83 mm (0·9)  -0·05 mm (0·8)  and -0·84 mm (1·0) for biparietal diameter; 0·63 mm (1·2)  0·04 mm (1·1)  and -1·05 mm (1·3) for occipitofrontal diameter; 2·99 mm (3·1)  0·25 mm (3·2)  and -4·22 mm (3·7) for abdominal circumference; and 0·62 mm (0·8)  0·03 mm (0·8)  and -0·65 mm (0·8) for femur length. we calculated the 3rd  5th 10th  50th  90th  95th and 97th centile curves according to gestational age for these ultrasound measures  representing the international standards for fetal growth. interpretation we recommend these international fetal growth standards for the clinical interpretation of routinely taken ultrasound measurements and for comparisons across populations. funding bill & melinda gates foundation.
4068,endotoxin tolerance: new mechanisms  molecules and clinical significance.,prior exposure of innate immune cells like monocytes/macrophages to minute amounts of endotoxin cause them to become refractory to subsequent endotoxin challenge  a phenomenon called "endotoxin tolerance". clinically  this state is associated with monocytes/macrophages in sepsis patients where they contribute to "immunosuppression" and mortality. the molecular mechanisms underlying endotoxin tolerance remain elusive. the recent appreciation of inflammation as a self-regulating process  the relative contribution of myd88 versus trif signaling pathways in inducing activation or tolerance  plasticity of nf-kappab function and the role of chromatin modification and micrornas in lps-induced gene reprogramming urges a re-evaluation of endotoxin tolerance. this review integrates these new findings into an up-to-date account of endotoxin tolerance  its molecular basis and clinical implications in different pathologies.
4070,e2f3 is a mediator of dna damage-induced apoptosis.,the e2f transcription factors have emerged as critical apoptotic effectors. herein we report that the e2f family member e2f3a can be induced by dna damage through transcriptional and posttranslational mechanisms. we demonstrate that the posttranslational induction of human e2f3a is dependent on the checkpoint kinases. moreover  we show that human e2f3a is a substrate for the checkpoint kinases (chk kinases) and that mutation of the chk phosphorylation site eliminates the dna damage inducibility of the protein. furthermore  we demonstrate that e2f1 and e2f2 are transcriptionally induced by dna damage in an e2f3-dependent manner. finally  using both in vitro and in vivo approaches  we establish that e2f3 is required for dna damage-induced apoptosis. thus  our data reveal the novel ability of e2f3 to function as a master regulator of the dna damage response.
4072,bacteriophage latent-period evolution as a response to resource availability.,bacteriophages (phages) modify microbial communities by lysing hosts  transferring genetic material  and effecting lysogenic conversion. to understand how natural communities are affected it is important to develop predictive models. here we consider how variation between models--in eclipse period  latent period  adsorption constant  burst size  the handling of differences in host quantity and host quality  and in modeling strategy--can affect predictions. first we compare two published models of phage growth  which differ primarily in terms of how they model the kinetics of phage adsorption; one is a computer simulation and the other is an explicit calculation. at higher host quantities (approximately 10(8) cells/ml)  both models closely predict experimentally determined phage population growth rates. at lower host quantities (10(7) cells/ml)  the computer simulation continues to closely predict phage growth rates  but the explicit model does not. next we concentrate on predictions of latent-period optima. a latent-period optimum is the latent period that maximizes the population growth of a specific phage growing in the presence of a specific quantity and quality of host cells. both models predict similar latent-period optima at higher host densities (e.g.  17 min at 10(8) cells/ml). at lower host densities  however  the computer simulation predicts latent-period optima that are much shorter than those suggested by explicit calculations (e.g.  90 versus 1 250 min at 10(5) cells/ml). finally  we consider the impact of host quality on phage latent-period evolution. by taking care to differentiate latent-period phenotypic plasticity from latent-period evolution  we argue that the impact of host quality on phage latent-period evolution may be relatively small.
4074,role of trpml and two-pore channels in endolysosomal cation homeostasis.,the transient receptor potential (trp) channels trpml1  trpml2  and trpml3 (also called mucolipins 1-3 or mcoln1-3) are nonselective cation channels. mutations in the trpml1 gene cause mucolipidosis type iv in humans with clinical features including psychomotor retardation  corneal clouding  and retinal degeneration  whereas mutations in the trpml3 gene cause deafness  circling behavior  and coat color dilution in mice. no disease-causing mutations are reported for the trpml2 gene. like trpml channels  which are expressed in the endolysosomal pathway  two-pore channels (tpcs)  namely tpc1  tpc2  and tpc3  are found in intracellular organelles  in particular in endosomes and lysosomes. both trpml channels and tpcs may function as calcium/cation release channels in endosomes  lysosomes  and lysosome-related organelles with trpmls being activated by phosphatidylinositol 3 5-bisphosphate and regulated by ph and tpcs being activated by nicotinic acid adenine dinucleotide phosphate in a calcium- and ph-dependent manner. they may also be involved in endolysosomal transport and fusion processes  e.g.  as intracellular calcium sources. currently  however  the exact physiological roles of trpml channels and tpcs remain quite elusive  and whether trpml channels are purely endolysosomal ion channels or whether they may also be functionally active at the plasma membrane in vivo remains to be determined.
4076,regeneration  tissue injury and the immune response.,the involvement of the immune system in the response to tissue injury has raised the possibility that it might influence tissue  organ or appendage regeneration following injury. one hypothesis that has been discussed is that inflammatory aspects may preclude the occurrence of regeneration  but there is also evidence for more positive roles of immune components. the vertebrate eye is an immunoprivileged site where inflammatory aspects are inhibited by several immunomodulatory mechanisms. in various newt species the ocular tissues such as the lens are regenerative and it has recently been shown that the response to local injury of the lens involves activation of antigen-presenting cells which traffic to the spleen and return to displace and engulf the lens  thereby inducing regeneration from the dorsal iris. the activation of thrombin from prothrombin in the dorsal iris is one aspect of the injury response that is important in the initiation of regeneration. the possible relationships between the immune response and the regenerative response are considered with respect to phylogenetic variation of regeneration in general  and lens regeneration in particular.
4078,the ino80 atp-dependent chromatin remodeling complex is a nucleosome spacing factor.,the mobilization of nucleosomes by the atp-dependent remodeler ino80 is quite different from another remodeler (swi/snf) that is also involved in gene activation. unlike that recently shown for swi/snf  ino80 is unable to disassemble nucleosomes when remodeling short nucleosomal arrays. instead  ino80 more closely resembles  although with notable exceptions  the nucleosome spacing activity of isw2 and isw1a  which are generally involved in transcription repression. ino80 required a minimum of 33 to 43 bp of extranucleosomal dna for mobilizing nucleosomes  with 70 bp being optimal. ino80 prefers to move mononucleosomes to the center of dna  like isw2 and isw1a  but does so with higher precision. unlike isw2/1a  ino80 does not require the h4 tail for nucleosome mobilization; instead  the h2a histone tail negatively regulates nucleosome movement by ino80. ino80 moved arrays of two or three nucleosomes with 50 or 79 bp of linker dna closer together  with a final length of ∼30 bp of linker dna or a repeat length of ∼177 bp. a minimum length of >30 bp of linker dna was required for nucleosome movement and spacing by ino80 in arrays.
4080,increased lean body mass as an early indicator of olanzapine-induced weight gain in healthy men.,one of the primary limitations of many psychiatric medications is weight gain  the mechanism of which remains to be fully elucidated. we conducted a 2-week double-blind placebo-controlled study on weight gain with olanzapine  which is frequently but unpredictably associated with this side effect  to address the possible mechanisms of weight gain independent of changes in the psychiatric condition for which it is prescribed. healthy male volunteers were randomly assigned to olanzapine (5 mg/day for 7 days  then 10 mg/day for 7 days) or a matching placebo. of the 24 participants  19 completed the study (olanzapine  n=13; placebo  n=6). body weight  glucose  triglyceride  total cholesterol  lipid  leptin  insulin  and aldosterone levels  resting metabolic rate  body composition  physical activity  and 24-h dietary intake were assessed. a significant increase in weight as well as triglyceride  insulin  and leptin levels were found in the olanzapine group as a whole. in participants receiving olanzapine who actually gained weight (n=8)  lean but not fat mass increased  as did insulin  fasting glucose  total cholesterol  low-density lipoprotein  and non-high-density lipoprotein levels  whereas aldosterone levels decreased. there were no significant metabolic or endocrine changes in participants receiving placebo or in those receiving olanzapine who did not gain weight. early metabolic changes appear to be independent of accumulation of fat.
4082,repriming of dna synthesis at stalled replication forks by human primpol,dna replication forks that collapse during the process of genomic duplication lead to double-strand breaks and constitute a threat to genomic stability. the risk of fork collapse is higher in the presence of replication inhibitors or after uv irradiation  which introduces specific modifications in the structure of dna. in these cases  fork progression may be facilitated by error-prone translesion synthesis (tls) dna polymerases. alternatively  the replisome may skip the damaged dna  leaving an unreplicated gap to be repaired after replication. this mechanism strictly requires a priming event downstream of the lesion. here we show that primpol  a new human primase and tls polymerase  uses its primase activity to mediate uninterrupted fork progression after uv irradiation and to reinitiate dna synthesis after dntp depletion. as an enzyme involved in tolerance to dna damage  primpol might become a target for cancer therapy.
4084,tissue-specific expression and regulation of sexually dimorphic genes in mice.,we report a comprehensive analysis of gene expression differences between sexes in multiple somatic tissues of 334 mice derived from an intercross between inbred mouse strains c57bl/6j and c3h/hej. the analysis of a large number of individuals provided the power to detect relatively small differences in expression between sexes  and the use of an intercross allowed analysis of the genetic control of sexually dimorphic gene expression. microarray analysis of 23 574 transcripts revealed that the extent of sexual dimorphism in gene expression was much greater than previously recognized. thus  thousands of genes showed sexual dimorphism in liver  adipose  and muscle  and hundreds of genes were sexually dimorphic in brain. these genes exhibited highly tissue-specific patterns of expression and were enriched for distinct pathways represented in the gene ontology database. they also showed evidence of chromosomal enrichment  not only on the sex chromosomes  but also on several autosomes. genetic analyses provided evidence of the global regulation of subsets of the sexually dimorphic genes  as the transcript levels of a large number of these genes were controlled by several expression quantitative trait loci (eqtl) hotspots that exhibited tissue-specific control. moreover  many tissue-specific transcription factor binding sites were found to be enriched in the sexually dimorphic genes.
4086,stress-dependent regulation of foxo transcription factors by the sirt1 deacetylase.,the sir2 deacetylase modulates organismal life-span in various species. however  the molecular mechanisms by which sir2 increases longevity are largely unknown. we show that in mammalian cells  the sir2 homolog sirt1 appears to control the cellular response to stress by regulating the foxo family of forkhead transcription factors  a family of proteins that function as sensors of the insulin signaling pathway and as regulators of organismal longevity. sirt1 and the foxo transcription factor foxo3 formed a complex in cells in response to oxidative stress  and sirt1 deacetylated foxo3 in vitro and within cells. sirt1 had a dual effect on foxo3 function: sirt1 increased foxo3's ability to induce cell cycle arrest and resistance to oxidative stress but inhibited foxo3's ability to induce cell death. thus  one way in which members of the sir2 family of proteins may increase organismal longevity is by tipping foxo-dependent responses away from apoptosis and toward stress resistance.
4088,recommendations for the presurgical psychosocial evaluation of bariatric surgery patients.,psychosocial factors have significant potential to affect long-term outcomes of bariatric surgery  including emotional adjustment  adherence to the recommended postoperative lifestyle regimen  weight loss outcomes  and co-morbidity improvement and or resolution. thus  it is recommended that bariatric behavioral health clinicians with specialized knowledge and experience be involved in the evaluation and care of patients both before and after surgery. the evaluating clinician plays a number of important roles in the multidisciplinary treatment of the bariatric patient. central among these is the role of identifying factors that may pose challenges to optimal surgical outcome and providing recommendations to the patient and bariatric team on how to address these issues. this document outlines recommendations for the psychosocial evaluation of bariatric surgery patients  appropriate qualifications of those conducting these evaluations  communication of evaluation results and suggested treatment plan  and the extension of behavioral healthcare of the bariatric patient to the entire span of the surgical and postsurgical process.
4090,an adoption study of human obesity.,we examined the contributions of genetic factors and the family environment to human fatness in a sample of 540 adult danish adoptees who were selected from a population of 3580 and divided into four weight classes: thin  median weight  overweight  and obese. there was a strong relation between the weight class of the adoptees and the body-mass index of their biologic parents - for the mothers  p less than 0.0001; for the fathers  p less than 0.02. there was no relation between the weight class of the adoptees and the body-mass index of their adoptive parents. cumulative distributions of the body-mass index of parents showed similar results; there was a strong relation between the body-mass index of biologic parents and adoptee weight class and no relation between the index of adoptive parents and adoptee weight class. furthermore  the relation between biologic parents and adoptees was not confined to the obesity weight class  but was present across the whole range of body fatness - from very thin to very fat. we conclude that genetic influences have an important role in determining human fatness in adults  whereas the family environment alone has no apparent effect.
4092,the epidemiology of trachoma in eastern equatoria and upper nile states  southern sudan.,objective limited surveys and anecdotal data indicate that trachoma is endemic in the states of eastern equatoria and upper nile in southern sudan. however  its magnitude and geographical distribution are largely unknown. we conducted surveys to ascertain the prevalence and geographical distribution of trachoma  and to identify targets for control interventions. methods population-based cross-sectional surveys were conducted in nine sites in southern sudan between september 2001 and june 2004. two-stage random cluster sampling with probability proportional to size was used to select the sample. trachoma grading was done using the who simplified grading system. findings a total of 17 016 persons were examined  a response rate of 86.1% of the enumerated population. prevalence of signs of active trachoma in children aged 1-9 years was: tf=53.7% (95% confidence interval (ci)=52.1-55.3); ti=42.7% (95% ci=41.2-44.2); tf and/or ti=64.1% (95% ci=62.5-65.5). prevalence of trichiasis (tt) in children aged less than 15 years was 1.2% (95% ci=0.9-1.4)  while tt prevalence in persons aged 15 years and above was 9.2% (95% ci=8.6-9.9). women were more likely to have trichiasis compared to men (odds ratio (or)=1.57; 95% ci=1.34-1.84). tentative extrapolation to the states of eastern equatoria and upper nile estimates that there is a backlog of 178 250 (lower and upper bounds=156 027-205 995) persons requiring surgery and the entire population  estimated to be over 3.9 million  is in need of the safe strategy to control blinding trachoma. conclusion trachoma is a public health problem in all nine of the study sites surveyed. the unusually high prevalence of active trachoma and tt in children points to the severity of the problem. there is urgent need to implement trachoma control interventions in trachoma endemic regions of southern sudan.
4094,genomic organization and chromosomal location of the human dsrna adenosine deaminase gene: the enzyme for glutamate-activated ion channel rna editing.,the structure of the human gene encoding the double-stranded rna (dsrna) adenosine deaminase (drada) was characterized. this nuclear localized enzyme is involved in the rna editing required for the expression of certain subtypes of glutamate-gated ion channel subunits. the drada gene span 30 kb pairs and harbors 15 exons. the transcription of the drada gene driven by the putative promoter region  which contains no typical tata or ccaat box-like sequences  is initiated at multiple sites  164 to 216 nucleotides upstream of the translation initiation codon. the three dsrna binding motifs (drbm)  70 amino acid residues long  are each encoded by two exons plus an intervening sequence that interrupts the motif at the identical amino acid position. this finding is consistent with the notion that the dsrna binding domains may be composed of two separate functional subdomains. fluorescent in situ hybridization localized the drada gene on the long arm chromosome 1  region q21. the gene structure and sequence information reported in this study will facilitate the investigation of involvement of drada in hereditary diseases that may be the result of malfunction of glutamate-gated ion channels.
4096,eml4-alk translocation predicts better outcome in lung adenocarcinoma patients with wild-type egfr.,introduction the echinoderm microtubule-associated protein like 4-anaplastic lymphoma kinase (eml4-alk) fusion represents a novel target in a subset of non-small cell lung cancer  especially adenocarcinoma. eml4-alk fusion is mutually exclusive with epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) mutations. to understand the impact of eml4-alk on the prognosis of non-small cell lung cancer  we examined eml4-alk fusion in lung adenocarcinoma from patients with wild-type egfr and analyzed their clinical treatment outcomes. methods lung adenocarcinoma patients with malignant pleural effusions having wild-type egfr and measurable target lesions were enrolled for eml4-alk analysis by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and direct sequencing. demographic data  eml4-alk status  and survival data were analyzed. we also performed fluorescence in situ hybridization on some available tumor samples to validate the pcr result. in addition  k-ras mutation was analyzed for patients without eml4-alk fusion genes. results a total of 116 patients with wild-type egfr sequencing results had complete clinical data for analysis. no patients received alk inhibitor therapy. there were 39 patients (34%) with the eml4-alk fusion gene. the concordance rate between reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and fluorescence in situ hybridization was 85%. the k-ras mutation rate for patients without eml4-alk fusion gene was 6.5%. by multivariate analysis  patients who had better performance status (p < 0.001) and eml4-alk translocation (p = 0.017) had longer overall survival. comparing patients with tumors harboring variant 1 with those harboring nonvariant 1 eml4-alk fusion genes  there were no significant differences in clinical factors and survival outcome. conclusion for lung adenocarcinoma patients with wild-type egfr  eml4-alk translocation is associated with longer overall survival.
4098,isolation and partial characterization of an unusual human immunodeficiency retrovirus from two persons of west-central african origin.,an unusual human retrovirus was isolated from two patients with persistent generalized lymphadenopathy who originate from west-central africa and are currently residing in belgium. although the virus shared a number of the same biological and morphological properties as human immunodeficiency retrovirus type 1 (hiv-1) and hiv-2  significant antigenic differences could be demonstrated. several of the viral proteins also differed in molecular weight from the corresponding hiv-1 and hiv-2 proteins. partial chemical cleavage of the most highly conserved viral proteins resulted in patterns which differed from those of hiv-1 and hiv-2. furthermore  nucleic acid hybridization experiments were capable of discriminating between the virus types. sequence analysis of the viral u3 region revealed a unique enhancer organization not found in other immunodeficiency viruses. the data indicated that the new isolate is more closely related to hiv-1 than to hiv-2 but clearly differs in a number of important respects.
4100,extra centrosomes and/or chromosomes prolong mitosis in human cells,using laser microsurgery and cell fusion we have explored how additional centrosomes and/or chromosomes influence the duration of mitosis in human cells. we found that doubling the chromosome number added approximately 10 min to a 20 min division  whereas doubling the number of centrosomes added approximately 30 min more. extra centrosomes and/or chromosomes prolong mitosis by delaying satisfaction of the spindle assembly checkpoint. thus mitosis can be prolonged by non-genetic means and extra chromosomes and centrosomes probably contribute to the elevated mitotic index seen in many tumours.
4102,gene methylation in gastric cancer.,gastric cancer is one of the most common malignancies and remains the second leading cause of cancer-related death worldwide. over 70% of new cases and deaths occur in developing countries. in the early years of the molecular biology revolution  cancer research mainly focuses on genetic alterations  including gastric cancer. epigenetic mechanisms are essential for normal development and maintenance of tissue-specific gene expression patterns in mammals. disruption of epigenetic processes can lead to altered gene function and malignant cellular transformation. recent advancements in the rapidly evolving field of cancer epigenetics have shown extensive reprogramming of every component of the epigenetic machinery in cancer  including dna methylation  histone modifications  nucleosome positioning  noncoding rnas  and micrornas. aberrant dna methylation in the promoter regions of gene  which leads to inactivation of tumor suppressor and other cancer-related genes in cancer cells  is the most well-defined epigenetic hallmark in gastric cancer. the advantages of gene methylation as a target for detection and diagnosis of cancer in biopsy specimens and non-invasive body fluids such as serum and gastric washes have led to many studies of application in gastric cancer. this review focuses on the most common and important phenomenon of epigenetics  dna methylation  in gastric cancer and illustrates the impact epigenetics has had on this field.
4104,hepatic polyploidy and liver growth control.,the onset of cellular polyploidy is recognized in all differentiated mammalian tissues. polyploidy has been noted frequently in the normal liver  as well as in pathophysiological states of the liver. as insights into the significance of polyploidy accumulate gradually  it is becoming clear that cells belonging to high ploidy classes exhibit advancement toward terminal differentiation and cellular senescence with greater probabilities of apoptosis. involvement of specific genetic abnormalities  such as impaired dna repair  may lead to hepatocellular polyploidy. working models indicate that extensive polyploidy could lead to organ failure  as well as to oncogenesis with activation of precancerous cell clones.
4106,sex-related differences in the presentation  treatment and outcomes among patients with acute coronary syndromes: the global registry of acute coronary events.,objective to assess whether sex differences exist in the angiographic severity  management and outcomes of acute coronary syndromes (acs). methods the study comprised 7638 women and 19 117 men with acs who underwent coronary angiography and were included in grace (global registry of acute coronary events) from 1999-2006. normal vessels/mild disease was defined as <50% stenosis in all epicardial vessels; advanced disease was defined as >or=one vessel with >or=50% stenosis. results women were older than men and had higher rates of cardiovascular risk factors. men and women presented equally with chest pain; however  jaw pain and nausea were more frequent among women. women were more likely to have normal/mild disease (12% vs 6%  p<0.001) and less likely to have left-main and three-vessel disease (27% vs 32%  p<0.001) or undergo percutaneous coronary intervention (65% vs 68%  p<0.001). women and men with normal and mild disease were treated less aggressively than those with advanced disease. women with advanced disease had a higher risk of death (4% vs 3%  p<0.01). after adjustment for age and extent of disease  women were more likely to have adverse outcomes (death  myocardial infarction  stroke and rehospitalisation) at six months compared to men (odds ratio 1.24  95% confidence interval 1.14 to 1.34); however  sex differences in mortality were no longer statistically significant. conclusions women with acs were more likely to have cardiovascular disease risk factors and atypical symptoms such as nausea compared with men  but were more likely to have normal/mild angiographic coronary artery disease. further study regarding sex differences related to disease severity is warranted.
4108,pi3k and cancer: lessons  challenges and opportunities,the central role of phosphoinositide 3-kinase (pi3k) activation in tumour cell biology has prompted a sizeable effort to target pi3k and/or downstream kinases such as akt and mammalian target of rapamycin (mtor) in cancer. however  emerging clinical data show limited single-agent activity of inhibitors targeting pi3k  akt or mtor at tolerated doses. one exception is the response to pi3kδ inhibitors in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia  where a combination of cell-intrinsic and -extrinsic activities drive efficacy. here  we review key challenges and opportunities for the clinical development of inhibitors targeting the pi3k–akt–mtor pathway. through a greater focus on patient selection  increased understanding of immune modulation and strategic application of rational combinations  it should be possible to realize the potential of this promising class of targeted anticancer agents.
4110,ccr6 regulates the migration of inflammatory and regulatory t cells.,th17 and regulatory t (treg) cells play opposite roles in autoimmune diseases. however  the mechanisms underlying their proper migration to inflammatory tissues are unclear. in this study  we report that these two t cell subsets both express ccr6. ccr6 expression in th17 cells is regulated by tgf-beta and requires two nuclear receptors  roralpha and rorgamma. th17 cells also express the ccr6 ligand ccl20  which is induced synergistically by tgf-beta and il-6  which requires stat3  rorgamma and il-21. th17 cells  by producing ccl20  promote migration of th17 and treg cells in vitro in a ccr6-dependent manner. lack of ccr6 in th17 cells reduces the severity of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis and th17 and treg recruitment into inflammatory tissues. similarly  ccr6 on treg cells is also important for their recruitment into inflammatory tissues. our data indicate an important role of ccr6 in treg and th17 cell migration.
4112,deleted in liver cancer-1 (dlc-1): a tumor suppressor not just for liver.,deleted in liver cancer 1 (dlc-1)  as its name implied  was originally isolated as a potential tumor suppressor gene often deleted in hepatocellular carcinoma. further studies have indicated that down-expression of dlc-1 either by genomic deletion or dna methylation is associated with a variety of cancer types including lung  breast  prostate  kidney  colon  uterus  ovary  and stomach. re-expression of dlc-1 in cancer cells regulates the structure of actin cytoskeleton and focal adhesions and significantly inhibits cell growth  supporting its role as a tumor suppressor. this tumor suppressive function relies on dlc-1's rhogtpase activating protein (rhogap) activity and steroidogenic acute regulatory (star)-related lipid transfer (start) domain  as well as its focal adhesion localization  which is recruited by the src homology 2 (sh2) domains of tensins in a phosphotyrosine-independent fashion. therefore  the expression and subcellular localization of dlc-1 could be a useful molecular marker for cancer prognosis  whereas dlc-1 and its downstream signaling molecules might be therapeutic targets for the treatment of cancer.
4114,brown and white adipose tissues: intrinsic differences in gene expression and response to cold exposure in mice,brown adipocytes dissipate energy  whereas white adipocytes are an energy storage site. we explored the plasticity of different white adipose tissue depots in acquiring a brown phenotype by cold exposure. by comparing cold-induced genes in white fat to those enriched in brown compared with white fat  at thermoneutrality we defined a "brite" transcription signature. we identified the genes  pathways  and promoter regulatory motifs associated with "browning " as these represent novel targets for understanding this process. for example  neuregulin 4 was more highly expressed in brown adipose tissue and upregulated in white fat upon cold exposure  and cell studies showed that it is a neurite outgrowth-promoting adipokine  indicative of a role in increasing adipose tissue innervation in response to cold. a cell culture system that allows us to reproduce the differential properties of the discrete adipose depots was developed to study depot-specific differences at an in vitro level. the key transcriptional events underpinning white adipose tissue to brown transition are important  as they represent an attractive proposition to overcome the detrimental effects associated with metabolic disorders  including obesity and type 2 diabetes.
4116,neutrophil extracellular traps: is immunity the second function of chromatin?,neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) are made of processed chromatin bound to granular and selected cytoplasmic proteins. nets are released by white blood cells called neutrophils  maybe as a last resort  to control microbial infections. this release of chromatin is the result of a unique form of cell death  dubbed "netosis. " here we review our understanding of how nets are made  their function in infections and as danger signals  and their emerging importance in autoimmunity and coagulation.
4118,interleukin-12 and -23 control plasticity of cd127(+) group 1 and group 3 innate lymphoid cells in the intestinal lamina propria.,human group 1 ilcs consist of at least three phenotypically distinct subsets  including nk cells  cd127(+) ilc1  and intraepithelial cd103(+) ilc1. in inflamed intestinal tissues from crohn's disease patients  numbers of cd127(+) ilc1 increased at the cost of ilc3. here we found that differentiation of ilc3 to cd127(+) ilc1 is reversible in vitro and in vivo. cd127(+) ilc1 differentiated to ilc3 in the presence of interleukin-2 (il-2)  il-23  and il-1β dependent on the transcription factor rorγt  and this process was enhanced in the presence of retinoic acid. furthermore  we observed in resection specimen from crohn's disease patients a higher proportion of cd14(+) dendritic cells (dc)  which in vitro promoted polarization from ilc3 to cd127(+) ilc1. in contrast  cd14(-) dcs promoted differentiation from cd127(+) ilc1 toward ilc3. these observations suggest that environmental cues determine the composition  function  and phenotype of cd127(+) ilc1 and ilc3 in the gut.
4120,eraap synergizes with mhc class i molecules to make the final cut in the antigenic peptide precursors in the endoplasmic reticulum.,the major histocompatibility complex class i molecules display peptides (pmhc i) on the cell surface for immune surveillance by cd8(+) t cells. these peptides are generated by proteolysis of intracellular polypeptides by the proteasome in the cytoplasm and then in the endoplasmic reticulum (er) by the er aminopeptidase associated with antigen processing (eraap). to define the unknown mechanism of eraap function in vivo  we analyzed naturally processed peptides in cells with or without appropriate mhc i and eraap. in the absence of mhc i  eraap degraded the antigenic precursors in the er. however  mhc i molecules could bind proteolytic intermediates and were essential for generation of the final peptide by eraap. thus  eraap synergizes with mhc i to generate the final pmhc i repertoire.
4122,cyp18a1  a key enzyme of drosophila steroid hormone inactivation  is essential for metamorphosis.,ecdysteroids are steroid hormones  which coordinate major developmental transitions in insects. both the rises and falls in circulating levels of active hormones are important for coordinating molting and metamorphosis  making both ecdysteroid biosynthesis and inactivation of physiological relevance. we demonstrate that drosophila melanogaster cyp18a1 encodes a cytochrome p450 enzyme (cyp) with 26-hydroxylase activity  a prominent step in ecdysteroid catabolism. a clear ortholog of cyp18a1 exists in most insects and crustaceans. when cyp18a1 is transfected in drosophila s2 cells  extensive conversion of 20-hydroxyecdysone (20e) into 20-hydroxyecdysonoic acid is observed. this is a multi-step process  which involves the formation of 20 26-dihydroxyecdysone as an intermediate. in drosophila larvae  cyp18a1 is expressed in many target tissues of 20e. we examined the consequences of cyp18a1 inactivation on drosophila development. null alleles generated by excision of a p element and rnai knockdown of cyp18a1 both result in pupal lethality  possibly as a consequence of impaired ecdysteroid degradation. our data suggest that the inactivation of 20e is essential for proper development and that cyp18a1 is a key enzyme in this process.
4124,new developments in the epidemiology of cancer prognosis: traditional and molecular predictors of treatment response and survival.,there have been numerous epidemiologic investigations to determine factors that may affect cancer risk. there is also a rich tradition of evaluating potential somatic changes in the cancer itself to predict recurrence and/or mortality after diagnosis. however  there has been relatively little
4126,high-density lipoproteins exert pro-inflammatory effects on macrophages via passive cholesterol depletion and pkc-nf-κb/stat1-irf1 signaling.,membrane cholesterol modulates a variety of cell signaling pathways and functions. while cholesterol depletion by high-density lipoproteins (hdls) has potent anti-inflammatory effects in various cell types  its effects on inflammatory responses in macrophages remain elusive. here we show overt pro-inflammatory effects of hdl-mediated passive cholesterol depletion and lipid raft disruption in murine and human primary macrophages in vitro. these pro-inflammatory effects were confirmed in vivo in peritoneal macrophages from apoa-i transgenic mice  which have elevated hdl levels. in line with these findings  the innate immune responses required for clearance of p. aeruginosa bacterial infection in lung were compromised in mice with low hdl levels. expression analysis  chip-pcr  and combinatorial pharmacological and genetic intervention studies unveiled that both native and reconstituted hdl enhance toll-like-receptor-induced signaling by activating a pkc-nf-κb/stat1-irf1 axis  leading to increased inflammatory cytokine expression. hdl's pro-inflammatory activity supports proper functioning of macrophage immune responses.
4128,troponin concentrations for stratification of patients with acute coronary syndromes in relation to therapeutic efficacy of tirofiban. prism study investigators. platelet receptor inhibition in ischemic syndrome management.,background a major challenge for physicians is to identify patients with acute coronary syndromes who may benefit from treatment with glycoprotein-iib/iiia-receptor antagonists. we investigated whether troponin concentrations can be used to stratify patients for benefit from treatment with tirofiban. methods we enrolled 2222 patients of the platelet receptor inhibition in ischemic syndrome management study with coronary artery disease and who had had chest pain in the previous 24 h. all patients received aspirin and were randomly assigned treatment with tirofiban or heparin. we took baseline measurements of troponin i and troponin t. we recorded death  myocardial infarction  or recurrent ischaemia after 48 h infusion treatment and at 7 days and 30 days. findings 629 (28.3%) patients had troponin i concentrations higher than the diagnostic threshold of 1.0 microg/l and 644 (29.0%) troponin t concentrations higher than 0.1 microg/l. 30-day event rates (death  myocardial infarction) were 13.0% for troponin-i-positive patients compared with 4.9% for troponin-i-negative patients (p<0.0001)  and 13.7% compared wth 3.5% for troponin t (p<0.001). at 30 days  in troponin-i-positive patients  tirofiban had lowered the risk of death (adjusted hazard ratio 0.25 [95% ci 0.09-0.68]  p=0.004) and myocardial infarction (0.37 [0.16-0.84]  p=0.01). this benefit was seen in medically managed patients (0.30 [0.10-0.84]  p=0.004) and those undergoing revascularisation (0.37 [0.15-0.93] p=0.02) after 48 h infusion treatment. by contrast  no treatment effect was seen for troponin-i-negative patients. similar benefits were seen for troponin-t-positive patients. interpretation troponin i and troponin t reliably identified high-risk patients with acute coronary syndromes  managed medically and by revascularisation  who would benefit from tirofiban.
4130,inflammatory biomarkers and exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.,importance exacerbations of respiratory symptoms in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd) have profound and long-lasting adverse effects on patients. objective to test the hypothesis that elevated levels of inflammatory biomarkers in individuals with stable copd are associated with an increased risk of having exacerbations. design  setting  and participants prospective cohort study examining 61 650 participants with spirometry measurements from the copenhagen city heart study (2001-2003) and the copenhagen general population study (2003-2008). of these  6574 had copd  defined as a ratio between forced expiratory volume in 1 second (fev1) and forced vital capacity below 0.7. main outcomes and measures baseline levels of c-reactive protein (crp) and fibrinogen and leukocyte count were measured in participants at a time when they were not experiencing symptoms of exacerbations. exacerbations were recorded and defined as short-course treatment with oral corticosteroids alone or in combination with an antibiotic or as a hospital admission due to copd. levels of crp and fibrinogen and leukocyte count were defined as high or low according to cut points of 3 mg/l  14 μmol/l  and 9 ×10(9)/l  respectively. results during follow-up  3083 exacerbations were recorded (mean  0.5/participant). in the first year of follow-up  multivariable-adjusted odds ratios for having frequent exacerbations were 1.2 (95% ci  0.7-2.2; 17 events/1000 person-years) for individuals with 1 high biomarker  1.7 (95% ci  0.9-3.2; 32 events/1000 person-years) for individuals with 2 high biomarkers  and 3.7 (95% ci  1.9-7.4; 81 events/1000 person-years) for individuals with 3 high biomarkers compared with individuals who had no elevated biomarkers (9 events/1000 person-years; trend: p = 2 × 10(-5)). corresponding hazard ratios using maximum follow-up time were 1.4 (95% ci  1.1-1.8)  1.6 (95% ci  1.3-2.2)  and 2.5 (95% ci  1.8-3.4)  respectively (trend: p = 1 × 10(-8)). the addition of inflammatory biomarkers to a basic model including age  sex  fev1 percent predicted  smoking  use of any inhaled medication  body mass index  history of previous exacerbations  and time since most recent prior exacerbation improved the c statistics from 0.71 to 0.73 (comparison: p = 9 × 10(-5)). relative risks were consistent in those with milder copd  in those with no history of frequent exacerbations  and in the 2 studies separately. the highest 5-year absolute risks of having frequent exacerbations in those with 3 high biomarkers (vs no high biomarkers) were 62% (vs 24%) for those with global initiative for chronic obstructive lung disease (gold) grades c-d (n = 558)  98% (vs 64%) in those with a history of frequent exacerbations (n = 127)  and 52% (vs 15%) for those with gold grades 3-4 (n = 465). conclusions and relevance simultaneously elevated levels of crp and fibrinogen and leukocyte count in individuals with copd were associated with increased risk of having exacerbations  even in those with milder copd and in those without previous exacerbations. further investigation is needed to determine the clinical value of these biomarkers for risk stratification.
4132,complex tissue and disease modeling using hipscs.,defined genetic models based on human pluripotent stem cells have opened new avenues for understanding disease mechanisms and drug screening. many of these models assume cell-autonomous mechanisms of disease but it is possible that disease phenotypes or drug responses will only be evident if all cellular and extracellular components of a tissue are present and functionally mature. to derive optimal benefit from such models  complex multicellular structures with vascular components that mimic tissue niches will thus likely be necessary. here we consider emerging research creating human tissue mimics and provide some recommendations for moving the field forward.
4134,anorectic drugs and pulmonary hypertension from the bedside to the bench.,anorectic drugs have been used for more than 30 years as an aid in weight reduction for obese persons. the use of aminorex  an amphetamine analog that increases norepinephrine levels in the central nervous system  led to an epidemic of primary pulmonary hypertension (pph) in europe in the late 1960s and early 1970s. the use of fenfluramine and later dexfenfluramine [drugs that inhibit 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-ht) release and reuptake and increases 5-ht and thus 5-ht secretion in the brain] was associated with a second epidemic of pph. all of these drugs have been voluntarily withdrawn from the market. the pathogenesis of pph in patients treated with these agents is uncertain  but recent evidence suggests that potassium channel abnormalities and vasoactive and proliferative properties of 5-ht may play a role. there is increasing experimental evidence suggesting that aminorex  fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine inhibit 4-aminopyridine-sensitive currents in potassium channels resulting in vasoconstriction in pulmonary resistance vessels and perhaps smooth muscle cell proliferation. 5-ht causes pulmonary artery vasoconstriction and smooth muscle cell proliferation. its levels are known to be high in those with fenfluramine-induced pph. however  a firm cause-and-effect relationship has not yet been established. one potentially beneficial effect of the epidemics of anorectic-related pph is that it may have provided important insights into the causes of pph unrelated to anorectic agents.
4136,uncoupling mitochondrial respiration for diabesity.,until recently  the mechanism of adaptive thermogenesis was ascribed to the expression of uncoupling protein 1 (ucp1) in brown and beige adipocytes. ucp1 is known to catalyze a proton leak of the inner mitochondrial membrane  resulting in uncoupled oxidative metabolism with no production of adenosine triphosphate and increased energy expenditure. thus increasing brown and beige adipose tissue with augmented ucp1 expression is a viable target for obesity-related disorders. recent work demonstrates an ucp1-independent pathway to uncouple mitochondrial respiration. a secreted enzyme  pm20d1  enriched in ucp1+ adipocytes  exhibits catalytic and hydrolytic activity to reversibly form n-acyl amino acids. n-acyl amino acids act as endogenous uncouplers of mitochondrial respiration at physiological concentrations. administration of pm20d1 or its products  n-acyl amino acids  to diet-induced obese mice improves glucose tolerance by increasing energy expenditure. in short-term studies  treated animals exhibit no toxicity while experiencing 10% weight loss primarily of adipose tissue. further study of this metabolic pathway may identify novel therapies for diabesity  the disease state associated with diabetes and obesity.
4138,cardiovascular and renal benefits of dry bean and soybean intake.,dry beans and soybeans are nutrient-dense  fiber-rich  and are high-quality sources of protein. protective and therapeutic effects of both dry bean and soybean intake have been documented. studies show that dry bean intake has the potential to decrease serum cholesterol concentrations  improve many aspects of the diabetic state  and provide metabolic benefits that aid in weight control. soybeans are a unique source of the isoflavones genistein and diadzein  which have numerous biological functions. soybeans and soyfoods potentially have multifaceted health-promoting effects  including cholesterol reduction  improved vascular health  preserved bone mineral density  and reduction of menopausal symptoms. soy appears to have salutary effects on renal function  although these effects are not well understood. whereas populations consuming high intakes of soy have lower prevalences of certain cancers  definitive experimental data are insufficient to clarify a protective role of soy. the availability of legume products and resources is increasing  incorporating dry beans and soyfoods into the diet can be practical and enjoyable. with the shift toward a more plant-based diet  dry beans and soy will be potent tools in the treatment and prevention of chronic disease.
4140,an autoimmune disease  apeced  caused by mutations in a novel gene featuring two phd-type zinc-finger domains,autoimmune polyendocrinopathy-candidiasis-ectodermal dystrophy (apeced) is the only described systemic autoimmune disease with established monogenic background  and the first autoimmune disorder localized outside the major histocompatibility complex (mhc) region. the primary biochemical defect in apeced is unknown. we have isolated a novel gene  aire  encoding for a putative nuclear protein featuring two phd-type zinc-finger motifs  suggesting its involvement in transcriptional regulation. five mutations in aire are reported in individuals with this disorder. this is the first report of a single-gene defect causing a systemic human autoimmune disease  providing a tool for exploring the molecular basis of autoimmunity.
4142,targeting mitotic exit leads to tumor regression in vivo: modulation by cdk1  mastl  and the pp2a/b55α δ phosphatase.,targeting mitotic exit has been recently proposed as a relevant therapeutic approach against cancer. by using genetically engineered mice  we show that the apc/c cofactor cdc20 is essential for anaphase onset in vivo in embryonic or adult cells  including progenitor/stem cells. ablation of cdc20 results in efficient regression of aggressive tumors  whereas current mitotic drugs display limited effects. yet  cdc20 null cells can exit from mitosis upon inactivation of cdk1 and the kinase mastl (greatwall). this mitotic exit depends on the activity of pp2a phosphatase complexes containing b55α or b55δ regulatory subunits. these data illustrate the relevance of critical players of mitotic exit in mammals and their implications in the balance between cell death and mitotic exit in tumor cells.
4144,analyzing mechanisms of alternative pre-mrna splicing using in vitro splicing assays.,the development of in vitro assays to analyze pre-mrna splicing resulted in the discovery of many fundamental features characterizing splicing signals and the machinery that completes this process. because in vitro assays can be manipulated by various biochemical approaches  the versatility of investigating alternative pre-mrna splicing in the test tube appears endless. importantly  modifications in reaction conditions can lead to the accumulation  isolation  and characterization of reaction intermediates  a prerequisite for gaining mechanistic insights into how the spliceosome carries out intron removal  and how regulatory elements assist the general splicing machinery in defining splice sites and alternative exons. these considerable experimental advantages have made the in vitro splicing system a standard assay  even though this approach is independent from rna transcription and other rna processing events  and in some respects deviates from the natural process of mrna biogenesis. here  we describe the tools and techniques necessary to carry out in vitro splicing assays. analyses of various experimental designs are presented to highlight the approaches taken to gain insights into the mechanisms by which splice site recognition and activation are communicated with the general splicing machinery. methods to measure the kinetics of splicing  to observe the formation of the pre-spliceosomal complexes  and to manipulate and modify the in vitro system to resolve the regulatory influences in alternative splicing are presented.
4146,uv light-induced dna synthesis arrest in hela cells is associated with changes in phosphorylation of human single-stranded dna-binding protein.,we show that dna replication activity in extracts of human hela cells decreases following uv irradiation. alterations in replication activity in vitro parallel the uv-induced block in cell cycle progression of these cells in culture. uv irradiation also induces specific changes in the pattern of phosphorylation of the 34 kda subunit of a dna replication protein  human single-stranded dna-binding protein (hssb). the appearance of a hyperphosphorylated form of hssb correlates with reduced in vitro dna replication activity in extracts of uv-irradiated cells. replication activity can be restored to these extracts in vitro by addition of purified hssb. these results suggest that uv-induced dna synthesis arrest may be mediated in part through phosphorylation-related alterations in the activity of hssb  an essential component of the dna replication apparatus.
4148,histone chaperones and nucleosome assembly.,recent structures of the nucleosome core particle reveal details of histone-histone and histone-dna interactions. these structures have now set the stage for understanding chromatin assembly and dynamics during replication and transcription. histone chaperones and chromatin remodeling complexes are important in both of these processes. the nucleosome and its protein core  the histone octamer  have twofold symmetry  which histone chaperones may use to bind core histones. recent studies suggest that the nucleoplasmin pentamer may mediate histone storage  sperm chromatin decondensation and nucleosome assembly  by dimerizing to form a decamer. in this model  histone binding on the lateral surface of the chaperone involves stereospecific interactions and a shared twofold axis.
4150,study of infectious intestinal disease in england: rates in the community  presenting to general practice  and reported to national surveillance. the infectious intestinal disease study executive.,objective to establish the incidence and aetiology of infectious intestinal disease in the community and presenting to general practitioners. comparison with incidence and aetiology of cases reaching national laboratory based surveillance. design population based community cohort incidence study  general practice based incidence studies  and case linkage to national laboratory surveillance. setting 70 general practices throughout england. participants 459 975 patients served by the practices. community surveillance of 9776 randomly selected patients. main outcome measures incidence of infectious intestinal disease in community and reported to general practice. results 781 cases were identified in the community cohort  giving an incidence of 19.4/100 person years (95% confidence interval 18.1 to 20.8). 8770 cases presented to general practice (3.3/100 person years (2.94 to 3.75)). one case was reported to national surveillance for every 1.4 laboratory identifications  6.2 stools sent for laboratory investigation  23 cases presenting to general practice  and 136 community cases. the ratio of cases in the community to cases reaching national surveillance was lower for bacterial pathogens (salmonella 3.2:1  campylobacter 7.6:1) than for viruses (rotavirus 35:1  small round structured viruses 1562:1). there were many cases for which no organism was identified. conclusions infectious intestinal disease occurs in 1 in 5 people each year  of whom 1 in 6 presents to a general practitioner. the proportion of cases not recorded by national laboratory surveillance is large and varies widely by microorganism. ways of supplementing the national laboratory surveillance system for infectious intestinal diseases should be considered.
4152,a dual function of the crispr-cas system in bacterial antivirus immunity and dna repair.,clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (crisprs) and the associated proteins (cas) comprise a system of adaptive immunity against viruses and plasmids in prokaryotes. cas1 is a crispr-associated protein that is common to all crispr-containing prokaryotes but its function remains obscure. here we show that the purified cas1 protein of escherichia coli (ygbt) exhibits nuclease activity against single-stranded and branched dnas including holliday junctions  replication forks and 5'-flaps. the crystal structure of ygbt and site-directed mutagenesis have revealed the potential active site. genome-wide screens show that ygbt physically and genetically interacts with key components of dna repair systems  including recb  recc and ruvb. consistent with these findings  the ygbt deletion strain showed increased sensitivity to dna damage and impaired chromosomal segregation. similar phenotypes were observed in strains with deletion of crispr clusters  suggesting that the function of ygbt in repair involves interaction with the crisprs. these results show that ygbt belongs to a novel  structurally distinct family of nucleases acting on branched dnas and suggest that  in addition to antiviral immunity  at least some components of the crispr-cas system have a function in dna repair.
4154,mechanosensitive ion channel piezo2 is important for enterochromaffin cell response to mechanical forces,key points the gastrointestinal epithelial enterochromaffin (ec) cell synthesizes the vast majority of the body's serotonin. as a specialized mechanosensor  the ec cell releases this serotonin in response to mechanical forces. however  the molecular mechanism of ec cell mechanotransduction is unknown. in the present study  we show  for the first time  that the mechanosensitive ion channel piezo2 is specifically expressed by the human and mouse ec cells. activation of piezo2 by mechanical forces results in a characteristic ionic current  the release of serotonin and stimulation of gastrointestinal secretion. piezo2 inhibition by drugs or molecular knockdown decreases mechanosensitive currents  serotonin release and downstream physiological effects. the results of the present study suggest that the mechanosensitive ion channel piezo2 is specifically expressed by the ec cells of the human and mouse small bowel and that it is important for ec cell mechanotransduction. abstract the enterochromaffin (ec) cell in the gastrointestinal (gi) epithelium is the source of nearly all systemic serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-ht)  which is an important neurotransmitter and endocrine  autocrine and paracrine hormone. the ec cell is a specialized mechanosensor  and it is well known that it releases 5-ht in response to mechanical forces. however  the ec cell mechanotransduction mechanism is unknown. the present study aimed to determine whether piezo2 is involved in ec cell mechanosensation. piezo2 mrna was expressed in human jejunum and mouse mucosa from all segments of the small bowel. piezo2 immunoreactivity localized specifically within ec cells of human and mouse small bowel epithelium. the ec cell model released 5-ht in response to stretch  and had piezo2 mrna and protein  as well as a mechanically-sensitive inward non-selective cation current characteristic of piezo2. both inward currents and 5-ht release were inhibited by piezo2 small interfering rna and antagonists (gd3+ and d-gsmtx4). jejunum mucosal pressure increased 5-ht release and short-circuit current via submucosal 5-ht3 and 5-ht4 receptors. pressure-induced secretion was inhibited by the mechanosensitive ion channel antagonists gadolinium  ruthenium red and d-gsmtx4. we conclude that the ec cells in the human and mouse small bowel gi epithelium selectively express the mechanosensitive ion channel piezo2  and also that activation of piezo2 by force leads to inward currents  5-ht release and an increase in mucosal secretion. therefore  piezo2 is critical to ec cell mechanosensitivity and downstream physiological effects.
4156,intravenous valproate is well tolerated in unstable patients with status epilepticus.,the authors reviewed hospital records of 13 patients with status epilepticus and hypotension who received iv valproate therapy. most patients were elderly (74.4 +/- 12.5 [sd] years) and received a loading dose of valproate of 25.1 +/- 5.0 mg/kg (range 14.7 to 32.7)  at a rate of 36.6 +/- 25.1 mg/min (range 6.3 to 100). there were no significant changes in blood pressure  pulse  or use of vasopressors. the data suggest that valproate loading is well tolerated  even in patients with cardiovascular instability.
4158,the ‘definitive’ (and ‘primitive’) guide to zebrafish hematopoiesis,progressive advances using zebrafish as a model organism have provided hematologists with an additional genetic system to study blood cell formation and hematological malignancies. despite extensive evolutionary divergence between bony fish (teleosts) and mammals  the molecular pathways governing hematopoiesis have been highly conserved. as a result  most (if not all) of the critical hematopoietic transcription factor genes identified in mammals have orthologues in zebrafish. as in other vertebrates  all of the teleost blood lineages are believed to originate from a pool of pluripotent  self-renewing hematopoietic stem cells. here  we provide a detailed review of the timing  anatomical location  and transcriptional regulation of zebrafish ‘primitive’ and ‘definitive’ hematopoiesis as well as discuss a model of t-cell leukemia and recent advances in blood cell transplantation. given that many of the regulatory genes that control embryonic hematopoiesis have been implicated in oncogenic pathways in adults  an understanding of blood cell ontogeny is likely to provide insights into the pathophysiology of human leukemias.
4160,molecular characterization of oxysterol binding to the epstein-barr virus-induced gene 2 (gpr183)* ,oxysterols are oxygenated cholesterol derivates that are emerging as a physiologically important group of molecules. although they regulate a range of cellular processes  only few oxysterol-binding effector proteins have been identified  and the knowledge of their binding mode is limited. recently  the family of g protein-coupled seven transmembrane-spanning receptors (7tm receptors) was added to this group. specifically  the epstein-barr virus-induced gene 2 (ebi2 or gpr183) was shown to be activated by several oxysterols  most potently by 7α 25-dihydroxycholesterol (7α 25-ohc). nothing is known about the binding mode  however. using mutational analysis  we identify here four key residues for 7α 25-ohc binding: arg-87 in tm-ii (position ii:20/2.60)  tyr-112 and tyr-116 (positions iii:09/3.33 and iii:13/3.37) in tm-iii  and tyr-260 in tm-vi (position vi:16/6.51). substituting these residues with ala and/or phe results in a severe decrease in agonist binding and receptor activation. docking simulations suggest that tyr-116 interacts with the 3β-oh group in the agonist  tyr-260 with the 7α-oh group  and arg-87  either directly or indirectly  with the 25-oh group  although nearby residues likely also contribute. in addition  tyr-112 is involved in 7α 25-ohc binding but via hydrophobic interactions. finally  we show that ii:20/2.60 constitutes an important residue for ligand binding in receptors carrying a positively charged residue at this position. this group is dominated by lipid- and nucleotide-activated receptors  here exemplified by the cyslts  p2y12  and p2y14. in conclusion  we present the first molecular characterization of oxysterol binding to a 7tm receptor and identify position ii:20/2.60 as a generally important residue for ligand binding in certain 7tm receptors.
4162,c-abl: activation and nuclear targets,the c-abl tyrosine kinase and its transforming variants have been implicated in tumorigenesis and in many important cellular processes. c-abl is localized in the nucleus and the cytoplasm  where it plays distinct roles. the effects of c-abl are mediated by multiple protein-protein and protein-dna interactions and its tyrosine kinase domain. at the biochemical level  the mechanism of c-abl kinase activation and the identification of its target proteins and cellular machineries have in part been solved. however  the phenotypic outcomes of these molecular events remained in large elusive. c-abl has been shown to regulate the cell cycle and to induce under certain conditions cell growth arrest and apoptosis. in this respect the interaction of c-abl with p53 and p73 has attracted particular attention. recent findings have implicated c-abl in an ionizing irradiation signaling pathway that elicits apoptosis. in this pathway p73 is an important immediate downstream effector. here i review the current knowledge about these nuclear processes in which c-abl is engaged and discuss some of their possible implications on cell physiology.
4164,a nuclear translation-like factor eif4aiii is recruited to the mrna during splicing and functions in nonsense-mediated decay.,in eukaryotes  a surveillance mechanism known as nonsense-mediated decay (nmd) degrades the mrna when a premature-termination codon (ptc) is present. nmd requires translation to read the frame of the mrna and detect the ptc. during pre-mrna splicing  the exon-exon junction complex (ejc) is recruited to a region 20-24 nt upstream of the exon junction on the mature mrna. the presence of a ptc upstream from the ejc elicits nmd. eukaryotic initiation factor 4a (eif4a) iii is a nuclear protein that interacts physically or functionally with translation initiation factors eif4g and eif4b  respectively  and shares strikingly high identity with the initiation factors eif4ai/ii. here we show that sirna against eif4aiii  but not against eif4ai/ii  inhibits nmd. moreover  eif4aiii  but not eif4ai  is specifically recruited to the ejc during splicing. the observations that eif4aiii is loaded onto the mrna during splicing in the nucleus  has properties related to a translation initiation factor  and functions in nmd raises the possibility that eif4aiii substitutes for eif4ai/ii during nmd.
4166,expression of the norrie disease gene (ndp) in developing and adult mouse eye  ear  and brain.,the norrie disease gene (ndp) codes for a secreted protein  norrin  that activates canonical wnt signaling by binding to its receptor  frizzled-4. this signaling system is required for normal vascular development in the retina and for vascular survival in the cochlea. in mammals  the pattern of ndp expression beyond the retina is poorly defined due to the low abundance of norrin mrna and protein. here  we characterize ndp expression during mouse development by studying a knock-in mouse that carries the coding sequence of human placental alkaline phosphatase (ap) inserted at the ndp locus (ndp(ap)). in the cns  ndp(ap) expression is apparent by e10.5 and is dynamic and complex. the anatomically delimited regions of ndp(ap) expression observed prenatally in the cns are replaced postnatally by widespread expression in astrocytes in the forebrain and midbrain  bergman glia in the cerebellum  and müller glia in the retina. in the developing and adult cochlea  ndp(ap) expression is closely associated with two densely vascularized regions  the stria vascularis and a capillary plexus between the organ of corti and the spiral ganglion. these observations suggest the possibility that norrin may have developmental and/or homeostatic functions beyond the retina and cochlea.
4168,brain region-specific up-regulation of mouse apolipoprotein e by pharmacological estrogen treatments.,cerebral apolipoprotein e (apoe) has been implicated in neuronal protection and repair. due to the variable levels and types of estrogen receptors within different brain regions  the effect of estrogen on apoe and the mechanism of this effect may vary within different regions. ovariectomized female c57bl/6 mice were treated with pharmacological levels of 17 beta-estradiol or placebo for 5 days  resulting in supraphysiological plasma levels of estradiol in the treated mice. apoe and glial fibrillary acidic protein (gfap) levels were measured in the cortex  hippocampus and diencephalon. 17 beta-estradiol up-regulated apoe but not gfap in the cortex and diencephalon  whereas in the hippocampus  gfap and apoe were equally up-regulated. treatment of estrogen receptor (er) alpha knockout mice with 17 beta-estradiol or treatment of c57bl/6 mice with 17 alpha-estradiol  a poor estrogen receptor agonist  specifically induced apoe in the cortex  but not in the diencephalon. these results indicate that 17 beta-estradiol effects on apoe are either directly or indirectly mediated by er alpha in the diencephalon  while the effects in the cortex may be mediated by a non-classical mechanism or by er beta. measurement of mrna levels in estrogen versus placebo-treated wild-type mice indicated that the effect of 17 beta-estradiol on apoe was not associated with changes in apoe mrna levels.
4170,a novel immortalized human endometrial stromal cell line with normal progestational response.,obtaining primary human endometrial stromal cells (hescs) for in vitro studies is limited by the scarcity of adequate human material and the inability to passage these cells in culture for long periods. immortalization of these cells would greatly facilitate studies; however  the process of immortalization often results in abnormal karyotypes and aberrant functional characteristics. to meet this need  we have introduced telomerase into cultured hescs to prevent the normal shortening of telomeres observed in adult somatic cells during mitosis. we have now developed and analyzed a newly immortalized hesc line that contains no clonal chromosomal structural or numerical abnormalities. in addition  when compared with the primary unpassaged parent cells  the new cell line displayed similar biochemical endpoints after treatment with ovarian steroids. classical decidualization response to estradiol plus medroxyprogesterone acetate were seen in both morphologically  and progestin was seen to induce or regulate the expression of igf binding protein-1  fibronectin  prolactin  tissue factor  plasminogen activator inhibitor-1  and fas/fas ligand. in summary  an immortalized hesc line has been developed that is karyotypically  morphologically  and phenotypically similar to the primary parent cells  and it is a powerful and consistent resource for in vitro work.
4172,strong association between respiratory viral infection early after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation and the development of life-threatening acute and chronic alloimmune lung syndromes.,alloimmune lung syndromes (allo-ls)  including idiopathic pneumonia syndrome  bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome  and bronchiolitis obliterans organizing pneumonia  are severe complications after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (hsct). in our cohort of 110 pediatric patients  30 had allo-ls (27.3%)  18 with idiopathic pneumonia syndrome and 12 with bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome. multivariate analysis showed that respiratory viral infection early after hsct is an important predictor for the development of allo-ls (p <.0001). this was true for all viruses tested. in multivariate analysis  allo-ls was the only predictor for higher mortality (p = .04). paradoxically  prolonged administration of immunosuppressive agents because of acute graft-versus-host disease had a protective effect on the development of allo-ls (p = .004). we hypothesize that early infection of the respiratory tract with a common cold virus makes the lungs a target for alloimmunity.
4174,the influence of denervation on grafted hindlimb regeneration of larval xenopus laevis.,the aim of the present research is to ascertain whether in larval xenopus laevis nerve-independence for the regeneration of early stage limbs and nerve-dependence of late stage limbs observed in a previous work (filoni and paglialunga  '90) is related to extrinsic (systemic) factors or to intrinsic changes taking place in the limb cells themselves during development. in this paper the regenerative capacity of early and late stage hindlimbs under the same extrinsic conditions  insofar as both are grafted onto the denervated hindlimbs of host larvae at the same developmental stage  is studied. all the grafted limbs are amputated after the host larvae have reached stage 57-58 (according to nieuwkoop and faber  '56). in experiment i  the grafted limb is amputated at stage 52  at the thigh level; in experiment ii  the grafted limb is amputated at stage 54-55  at the tarsalia level; in experiment iii the grafted limb is amputated at stage 57  at the tarsalia level. in all three experiments  together with the grafted limb  also the host limb is amputated at the tarsalia level. the results show that while grafted limbs amputated at stages 52 and 54-55 regenerate in the absence of nerves  grafted limbs amputated at stage 57 cannot. the failure of late stage grafted limbs to regenerate cannot be explained in terms of an immune-type inhibiting reaction since it has been observed also in denervated autografted limbs and in the host limbs. since all the grafted limbs are in the same environmental conditions  the results show that in larval xenopus laevis nerve-independence for regeneration of early stage limbs and nerve-dependence of late stage limbs are not related to factors extrinsic to the limb but to intrinsic changes taking place in the limb cells themselves during development.
4176,neurogenin3: a master regulator of pancreatic islet differentiation and regeneration.,the basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor neurogenin-3 (ngn3  neurog3) is critical for the development of the endocrine cells of the islets. either disrupted or forced expression of ngn3 early in mouse pancreas development abrogates the formation of islets. the successive waves of ngn3 expression that occur during the primary and secondary transitions of endocrine cell development temporally determine the four distinct endocrine cell lineages  α  β  pp  and δ cells that express glucagon  insulin  pancreatic polypeptide  and somatostatin  respectively. during islet regeneration after injury of the adult mouse pancreas  such as by duct ligation or streptozotocin  ngn3 is activated in duct-associated stem/progenitor cells that transform into alpha and/or beta cells (xu et al  collombat et al). the important role of ngn3 as a master regulator of endocrine pancreas development directs attention to finding therapeutic approaches to enhance ngn3 expression in diabetes as a means to increase beta cell mass and functions.
4178,correlation and variable importance in random forests,this paper is about variable selection with the random forests algorithm in presence of correlated predictors. in high-dimensional regression or classification frameworks  variable selection is a difficult task  that becomes even more challenging in the presence of highly correlated predictors. firstly we provide a theoretical study of the permutation importance measure for an additive regression model. this allows us to describe how the correlation between predictors impacts the permutation importance. our results motivate the use of the recursive feature elimination (rfe) algorithm for variable selection in this context. this algorithm recursively eliminates the variables using permutation importance measure as a ranking criterion. next various simulation experiments illustrate the efficiency of the rfe algorithm for selecting a small number of variables together with a good prediction error. finally  this selection algorithm is tested on the landsat satellite data from the uci machine learning repository.
4180,gaba(b) receptor 1 polymorphism (g1465a) is associated with temporal lobe epilepsy.,background dysfunction of gamma-aminobutyric acid (gaba) (b) receptors has been implicated in the pathogenesis of temporal lobe epilepsy (tle). objective to evaluate the genetic contribution of cloned human gaba(b) receptors to tle. methods the authors genotyped 141 patients (78 women and 63 men; mean age = 49.1 +/- 18.0 years) with nonlesional tle and 372 age- and sex-matched normal individuals for the known polymorphism g1465a in the human gaba(b) receptor 1 [gaba(b[1])] gene. results there was a highly significant overrepresentation of the g1465a heterozygote in patients with tle compared with controls. the a/g genotype was found in 17% of the 141 patients with tle and in only 0.5% of the 372 controls (p < 0.0001). the authors also found that patients carrying the a allele had a significantly higher risk (p = 0.003  or = 6.47  95% ci = 2.02 to 20.76) of developing drug-resistant tle. furthermore  the age at onset of seizures tended to be lower in patients with a/g genotype  but the difference was not significant. conclusions the results of this study indicate that the gaba(b[1]) polymorphism (g1465a) confers a highly increased susceptibility to tle. moreover  it seems to influence the severity of this common epileptic disorder.
4182,de novo expression of trpm4 initiates secondary hemorrhage in spinal cord injury,the role of transient receptor potential m4 (trpm4)  an unusual member of the trp family of ion channels  is poorly understood. using rodent models of spinal cord injury  we studied involvement of trpm4 in the progressive expansion of secondary hemorrhage associated with capillary fragmentation  the most destructive mechanism of secondary injury in the central nervous system. trpm4 mrna and protein were abundantly upregulated in capillaries preceding their fragmentation and formation of petechial hemorrhages. trpm4 expression in vitro rendered cos-7 cells highly susceptible to oncotic swelling and oncotic death following atp depletion. after spinal cord injury  in vivo gene suppression in rats treated with trpm4 antisense or in trpm4−/− mice preserved capillary structural integrity  eliminated secondary hemorrhage  yielded a threefold to fivefold reduction in lesion volume and produced a substantial improvement in neurological function. to our knowledge  this is the first example of a trp channel that must undergo de novo expression for manifestation of central nervous system pathology.
4184,aortic stiffness  blood pressure progression  and incident hypertension.,context vascular stiffness increases with advancing age and is a major risk factor for age-related morbidity and mortality. vascular stiffness and blood pressure pulsatility are related; however  temporal relationships between vascular stiffening and blood pressure elevation have not been fully delineated. objective to examine temporal relationships among vascular stiffness  central hemodynamics  microvascular function  and blood pressure progression. design  setting  and participants longitudinal community-based cohort study conducted in framingham  massachusetts. the present investigation is based on the 2 latest examination cycles (cycle 7: 1998-2001; cycle 8: 2005-2008 [last visit: january 25  2008]) of the framingham offspring study (recruited: 1971-1975). temporal relationships among blood pressure and 3 measures of vascular stiffness and pressure pulsatility derived from arterial tonometry (carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity [cfpwv]  forward wave amplitude [fwa]  and augmentation index) were examined over a 7-year period in 1759 participants (mean [sd] age: 60 [9] years; 974 women). main outcome measures the primary outcomes were blood pressure and incident hypertension during examination cycle 8. the secondary outcomes were cfpwv  fwa  and augmentation index during examination cycle 8. results in a multivariable-adjusted regression model  higher fwa (β  1.3 [95% ci  0.5-2.1] mm hg per 1 sd; p = .002) and higher cfpwv (β  1.5 [95% ci  0.5-2.6] mm hg per 1 sd; p = .006) during examination cycle 7 were jointly associated with systolic blood pressure during examination cycle 8. similarly  in a model that included systolic and diastolic blood pressure and additional risk factors during examination cycle 7  higher fwa (odds ratio [or]  1.6 [95% ci  1.3-2.0] per 1 sd; p < .001)  augmentation index (or  1.7 [95% ci  1.4-2.0] per 1 sd; p < .001)  and cfpwv (or  1.3 [95% ci  1.0-1.6] per 1 sd; p = .04) were associated with incident hypertension during examination cycle 8 (338 cases [32%] in 1048 participants without hypertension during examination cycle 7). conversely  blood pressure during examination cycle 7 was not associated with cfpwv during examination cycle 8. higher resting brachial artery flow (or  1.23 [95% ci  1.04-1.46]) and lower flow-mediated dilation (or  0.80 [95% ci  0.67-0.96]) during examination cycle 7 were associated with incident hypertension (in models that included blood pressure and tonometry measures collected during examination cycle 7). conclusion in this cohort  higher aortic stiffness  fwa  and augmentation index were associated with higher risk of incident hypertension; however  initial blood pressure was not independently associated with risk of progressive aortic stiffening.
4186,anaphase catastrophe is a target for cancer therapy.,neoplastic cells are genetically unstable. strategies that target pathways affecting genome instability can be exploited to disrupt tumor cell growth  potentially with limited consequences to normal cells. chromosomal instability (cin) is one type of genome instability characterized by mitotic defects that increase the rate of chromosome mis-segregation. cin is frequently caused by extra centrosomes that transiently disrupt normal bipolar spindle geometry needed for accurate chromosome segregation. tumor cells survive with extra centrosomes because of biochemical pathways that cluster centrosomes and promote chromosome segregation on bipolar spindles. recent work shows that targeted inhibition of these pathways prevents centrosome clustering and forces chromosomes to segregate to multiple daughter cells  an event triggering apoptosis that we refer to as anaphase catastrophe. anaphase catastrophe specifically kills tumor cells with more than 2 centrosomes. this death program can occur after genetic or pharmacologic inhibition of cyclin dependent kinase 2 (cdk2) and is augmented by combined treatment with a microtubule inhibitor. this proapoptotic effect occurs despite the presence of ras mutations in cancer cells. anaphase catastrophe is a previously unrecognized mechanism that can be pharmacologically induced for apoptotic death of cancer cells and is  therefore  appealing to engage for cancer therapy and prevention.
4188,genome-wide lineage-specific transcriptional networks underscore ikaros-dependent lymphoid priming in hematopoietic stem cells.,the mechanisms regulating lineage potential during early hematopoiesis were investigated. first  a cascade of lineage-affiliated gene expression signatures  primed in hematopoietic stem cells (hscs) and differentially propagated in lineage-restricted progenitors  was identified. lymphoid transcripts were primed as early as the hsc  together with myeloid and erythroid transcripts. although this multilineage priming was resolved upon subsequent lineage restrictions  an unexpected cosegregation of lymphoid and myeloid gene expression and potential past a nominal myeloid restriction point was identified. finally  we demonstrated that whereas the zinc finger dna-binding factor ikaros was required for induction of lymphoid lineage priming in the hsc  it was also necessary for repression of genetic programs compatible with self-renewal and multipotency downstream of the hsc. taken together  our studies provide new insight into the priming and restriction of lineage potentials during early hematopoiesis and identify ikaros as a key bivalent regulator of this process.
4190,lessons from the past: managing insecticide resistance in malaria control and eradication programmes.,the distribution of insecticide-treated bednets to help combat the burden of malaria in sub-saharan africa has accelerated in the past 5 years. additionally  many countries are also considering  or have already begun  indoor residual spraying campaigns. these are positive developments  since vector control has repeatedly proven to be an effective means of reducing malaria transmission. however  the sustainability of these insecticide-based interventions relies on the continuing susceptibility of the anopheles vectors to the limited number of available insecticides. continual monitoring for early signs of insecticide resistance and the adoption of carefully considered resistance management strategies are therefore required. regrettably  this essential monitoring component is frequently given a low priority in the push to meet ambitious coverage targets. we outline the key requirements for establishing an insecticide resistance surveillance system and urge all those involved in malaria vector control  either directly or as facilitators  to ensure that these measures are incorporated into control programmes. failure to act now will inevitably lead to a future breakdown in disease control and jeopardise hopes of eradicating this major public-health problem.
4192,lipid-based nutrient supplement increases the birth size of infants of primiparous women in ghana.,background the international lipid-based nutrient supplements project developed a small-quantity (20 g/d) lipid-based nutrient supplement (lns) for pregnant and lactating women. objective we evaluated the effects of prenatal lns supplementation on fetal growth. design in a community-based  partially double-blind  individually randomized controlled trial  1320 women ≤20 wk pregnant received 60 mg fe/400 μg folic acid (ifa)  or 1-2 recommended dietary allowances of 18 micronutrients  including 20 mg fe (mmn)  or lns with the same micronutrients as the mmn group  plus 4 minerals and macronutrients contributing 118 kcal (lns) daily until delivery. fetal growth was compared across groups by using intention-to-treat analysis. the primary outcome was birth length. results this analysis included 1057 women (ifa = 349  mmn = 354  lns = 354). groups did not differ significantly in mean birth length  length-for-age z score (laz)  head circumference  or percentage low birth length but differed in mean birth weight (p = 0.044)  weight-for-age z score (waz; p = 0.046)  and bmi-for-age z score (bmiz; p = 0.040)  with a trend toward differences in low birth weight (p = 0.069). in pairwise comparisons  the lns group had greater mean birth weight (+85 g; p = 0.040)  waz (+0.19; p = 0.045)  and bmiz (+0.21; p = 0.035) and a lower risk of low birth weight (rr: 0.61  95% ci: 0.39  0.96; p = 0.032) than did the ifa group. the other group differences were not significant. the effect of intervention was modified by mother's parity  age  height  baseline hemoglobin  household food insecurity  and child sex  with parity being the most consistent modifier. among primiparous women (ifa = 131; mmn = 110; lns = 128)  the lns group had greater mean birth length (+0.91 cm; p = 0.001)  laz (+0.47; p = 0.001)  weight (+237 g; p < 0.001)  waz (+0.56; p < 0.001)  bmiz (+0.52; p < 0.001)  head circumference (0.50 cm; p = 0.017)  and head circumference-for-age z score (+0.40; p = 0.022) than did the ifa group; similar differences were found when comparing the lns and mmn groups among primiparous women  and no group differences were found among multiparous women. conclusion prenatal lns supplementation can improve fetal growth among vulnerable women in ghana  particularly primiparous women. this trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as nct00970866.
4194,familial occurrence of chronic tension-type headache.,chronic tension-type headache (ctth) assessed by proband report was evaluated in a family study of ctth. a clinical interview of first-degree relatives by a physician was used as index of validity. familial occurrence of ctth in first-degree relatives was also investigated. patterns of familial aggregation of ctth were assessed by calculating the population relative risk. a neurological resident carried out all the interviews of probands and their first-degree relatives. the operational diagnostic criteria of the international headache society were used. the 122 probands had 377 first-degree relatives. sensitivity  specificity  predictive values  and chance-corrected agreement rate for the diagnosis ctth were 68%  86%  53% (pvpos)  92% (pvneg)  and 0.48  respectively. the low sensitivity of ctth assessed by proband report indicates that a clinical interview by a physician is necessary in family studies of ctth. clinically interviewed parents  siblings  and children had a 2.1 to 3.9-fold significantly increased risk of ctth compared with the general population. the gender of the probands did not influence the risk of ctth among first-degree relatives. the significantly increased familial risk of ctth and no increased risk of ctth in spouses suggest that a genetic factor is involved in ctth.
4196,surveillance for foodborne-disease outbreaks--united states  1993-1997.,problem/condition since 1973  cdc has maintained a collaborative surveillance program for collection and periodic reporting of data on the occurrence and causes of foodborne-disease outbreaks (fbdos) in the united states. reporting period covered this summary reviews data from january 1993 through december 1997. description of system the foodborne-disease outbreak surveillance system reviews data concerning fbdos  defined as the occurrence of two or more cases of a similar illness resulting from the ingestion of a common food. state and local public health departments have primary responsibility for identifying and investigating fbdos. state  local  and territorial health departments use a standard form to report these outbreaks to cdc. results during 1993-1997  a total of 2 751 outbreaks of foodborne disease were reported (489 in 1993  653 in 1994  628 in 1995  477 in 1996  and 504 in 1997). these outbreaks caused a reported 86 058 persons to become ill. among outbreaks for which the etiology was determined  bacterial pathogens caused the largest percentage of outbreaks (75%) and the largest percentage of cases (86%). salmonella serotype enteritidis accounted for the largest number of outbreaks  cases  and deaths; most of these outbreaks were attributed to eating eggs. chemical agents caused 17% of outbreaks and 1% of cases; viruses  6% of outbreaks and 8% of cases; and parasites  2% of outbreaks and 5% of cases. interpretation the annual number of fbdos reported to cdc did not change substantially during this period or from previous years. during this reporting period  s. enteritidis continued to be a major cause of illness and death. in addition  multistate outbreaks caused by contaminated produce and outbreaks caused by escherichia coli o157:h7 remained prominent. actions taken current methods to detect fbdos are improving  and several changes to improve the ease and timeliness of reporting fbdo data are occurring (e.g.  a revised form to simplify fbdo reporting by state health departments and electronic reporting methods). state and local health departments continue to investigate and report fbdos as part of efforts to better understand and define the epidemiology of foodborne disease in the united states. at the regional and national levels  surveillance data provide an indication of the etiologic agents  vehicles of transmission  and contributing factors associated with fbdos and help direct public health actions to reduce illness and death caused by fbdos.
4198,regulation of embryonic stem cell pluripotency by heat shock protein 90.,deciphering the molecular basis of stem cell pluripotency is fundamental to the understanding of stem cell biology  early embryonic development  and to the clinical application of regenerative medicine. we report here that the molecular chaperone heat shock protein 90 (hsp90) is essential for mouse embryonic stem cell (esc) pluripotency through regulating multiple pluripotency factors  including oct4  nanog  and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3. inhibition of hsp90 by either 17-n-allylamino-17-demethoxygeldanamycin or mirna led to esc differentiation. overexpression of hsp90β partially rescued the phenotype; in particular  the levels of oct4 and nanog were restored. notably  hsp90 associated with oct4 and nanog in the same cellular complex and protected them from degradation by the ubiquitin proteasome pathway  suggesting that oct4 and nanog are potential novel hsp90 client proteins. in addition  hsp90 inhibition reduced the mrna level of oct4  but not that of nanog  indicating that hsp90 participates in oct4 mrna processing or maturation. hsp90 inhibition also increased expression of some protein markers for mesodermal lineages  implying that hsp90 suppresses mesodermal differentiation from escs. these findings support a new role for hsp90 in maintaining esc pluripotency by sustaining the level of multiple pluripotency factors  particularly oct4 and nanog.
4200,metformin normalizes type 2 diabetes-induced decrease in cell proliferation and neuroblast differentiation in the rat dentate gyrus,in this study  we observed the effects of metformin  one of the most widely prescribed drugs for the treatment of type 2 diabetes  on cell proliferation and neuroblast differentiation in the subgranular zone of the hippocampal dentate gyrus (szdg) in zucker diabetic fatty (zdf) rats  which are a model for type 2 diabetes. for this  metformin was administered orally once a day to 14-week-old zdf rats for 2 weeks and the animals were sacrificed at 16 weeks of age. during this period  blood glucose levels were higher in the vehicle-treated zdf rats than in the zucker lean control (zlc) rats. metformin treatment significantly decreased the blood glucose levels from 15.5 weeks of age. in the szdg  ki67 (a marker for cell proliferation)- and doublecortin (dcx  a marker for differentiated neuroblasts)-immunoreactive cells were much lower in the vehicle-treated zdf rats than in the zlc rats. in the metformin-treated zdf group  ki67- and dcx-immunoreactive cells were significantly increased in the szdg compared to those in the vehicle-treated zdf group. these results suggest that diabetes significantly reduces cell proliferation and neuroblast differentiation in the szdg and that metformin treatment normalizes the reduction of cell proliferation and neuroblast differentiation in the szdg in diabetic rats.
4202,the myeloid transcription factor gata-2 regulates the viral ul144 gene during human cytomegalovirus latency in an isolate-specific manner.,it is generally accepted that  following primary infection  human cytomegalovirus (hcmv) establishes lifelong latency in cd34(+) progenitor cells and other derivative cells of the myeloid lineage. in this study  we show that the viral ul144 gene is expressed during latent infection in two cell types of the myeloid lineage  cd34(+) and cd14(+) monocytes  and that the ul144 protein is functional in latently infected monocytes. however  this latency-associated expression of ul144 occurs only in certain isolates of hcmv and depends on the presence of functional gata-2 transcription factor binding sites in the ul144 promoter  in contrast to the viral latency-associated gene luna  which we also show is regulated by gata-2 but expressed uniformly during latent infection independent of the virus isolate. taken together  these data suggest that the hcmv latency-associated transcriptome may be virus isolate specific and dependent on the repertoire of transcription factor binding sites in the promoters of latency-associated genes.
4204,the prevalence of congenital malformations is still higher in pregnant women with pregestational diabetes despite near-normal hba1c: a literature review.,aims/hypothesis we assessed the association between congenital malformations and maternal hyperglycemia in pregnant women with pregestational (type 1 or type 2) diabetes and investigated if the rate of congenital malformations was similar in women with near-normal glycemic control compared to the background population. we also assessed the association between congenital malformations and maternal hyperglycemia in pregnant women with pregestational diabetes with special focus on women with near-normal hba1c in early pregnancy. materials and methods this is a literature review based on an electronic literature search of the databases pubmed  cochrane  embase and web of science conducted in july 2017 using the search terms diabetes  pregnancy  hba1c or glycemic control and congenital anomaly or congenital anomaly. we included original papers in english published after 1997 with data on congenital malformations and hba1c in at least 250 women with pregestational diabetes. results nine papers with in total 6225 women with type 1 diabetes and 2334 women with type 2 diabetes were included. the prevalence of congenital malformations was 6.4% in women with type 1 diabetes and 4.3% in women with type 2 diabetes and for the combined group of women with pregestational diabetes  the relative risk compared to the background population was 3.2. in women with hba1c < 53 mmol/mol (7.0%) in early pregnancy or hba1c 53-64 mmol/mol (7.0-8.0%) the prevalence of congenital malformations was 4.3 and 3.7%  respectively  with a relative risk of 2.2 and 1.9  respectively. conclusions in pregnant women with pregestational diabetes the prevalence of congenital abnormalities was threefold higher in women with pregestational diabetes compared to the background population. however  hba1c below 53 mmol/mol (7.0%) in early pregnancy was also associated with a two times increased risk of congenital malformations compared to the background population.
4206,homelessness and health.,homelessness affects tens of thousands of canadians and has important health implications. homeless people are at increased risk of dying prematurely and suffer from a wide range of health problems  including seizures  chronic obstructive pulmonary disease  musculoskeletal disorders  tuberculosis  and skin and foot problems. homeless people also face significant barriers that impair their access to health care. more research is needed to identify better ways to deliver care to this population.
4208,differential requirement of the extracellular domain in activation of class b g protein-coupled receptors.,g protein-coupled receptors (gpcrs) from the secretin-like (class b) family are key players in hormonal homeostasis and are important drug targets for the treatment of metabolic disorders and neuronal diseases. they consist of a large n-terminal extracellular domain (ecd) and a transmembrane domain (tmd) with the gpcr signature of seven transmembrane helices. class b gpcrs are activated by peptide hormones with their c termini bound to the receptor ecd and their n termini bound to the tmd. it is thought that the ecd functions as an affinity trap to bind and localize the hormone to the receptor. this in turn would allow the hormone n terminus to insert into the tmd and induce conformational changes of the tmd to activate downstream signaling. in contrast to this prevailing model  we demonstrate that human class b gpcrs vary widely in their requirement of the ecd for activation. in one group  represented by corticotrophin-releasing factor receptor 1 (crf1r)  parathyroid hormone receptor (pth1r)  and pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide type 1 receptor (pac1r)  the ecd requirement for high affinity hormone binding can be bypassed by induced proximity and mass action effects  whereas in the other group  represented by glucagon receptor (gcgr) and glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (glp-1r)  the ecd is required for signaling even when the hormone is covalently linked to the tmd. furthermore  the activation of glp-1r by small molecules that interact with the intracellular side of the receptor is dependent on the presence of its ecd  suggesting a direct role of the ecd in glp-1r activation.
4210,two classes of endogenous small rnas in tetrahymena thermophila.,endogenous small rnas function in rna interference (rnai) pathways to guide rna cleavage  translational repression  or methylation of dna or chromatin. in tetrahymena thermophila  developmentally regulated dna elimination is governed by an rnai mechanism involving approximately 27-30-nucleotide (nt) rnas. here we characterize the sequence features of the approximately 27-30-nt rnas and a approximately 23-24-nt rna class representing a second rnai pathway. the approximately 23-24-nt rnas accumulate strain-specifically manner and map to the genome in clusters that are antisense to predicted genes. these findings reveal the existence of distinct endogenous rnai pathways in the unicellular t. thermophila  a complexity previously demonstrated only in multicellular organisms.
4212,requirement of heterochromatin for cohesion at centromeres.,centromeres are heterochromatic in many organisms  but the mitotic function of this silent chromatin remains unknown. during cell division  newly replicated sister chromatids must cohere until anaphase when scc1/rad21-mediated cohesion is destroyed. in metazoans  chromosome arm cohesins dissociate during prophase  leaving centromeres as the only linkage before anaphase. it is not known what distinguishes centromere cohesion from arm cohesion. fission yeast swi6 (a heterochromatin protein 1 counterpart) is a component of silent heterochromatin. here we show that this heterochromatin is specifically required for cohesion between sister centromeres. swi6 is required for association of rad21-cohesin with centromeres but not along chromosome arms and  thus  acts to distinguish centromere from arm cohesion. therefore  one function of centromeric heterochromatin is to attract cohesin  thereby ensuring sister centromere cohesion and proper chromosome segregation.
4214,the impact of location of progressive visual field loss on longitudinal changes in quality of life of patients with glaucoma.,purpose to evaluate the association between rates of progressive loss in different regions of the visual field and longitudinal changes in quality of life (qol). design prospective  observational cohort study. participants the study included 236 patients with glaucomatous visual field loss followed for an average of 4.3±1.5 years. methods all subjects had the 25-item national eye institute visual functioning questionnaire (nei vfq-25) performed annually and standard automated perimetry (sap) at 6-month intervals. subjects were included if they had a minimum of 2 nei vfq-25 and 5 sap tests during follow-up. evaluation of rates of visual field change was performed using 4 different regions (central inferior  central superior  peripheral inferior  and peripheral superior) of the integrated binocular visual field. the association between change in nei vfq-25 rasch-calibrated scores and change in different regions of the visual field was investigated with a joint multivariable longitudinal linear mixed model. main outcome measures the relationship between change in qol scores and change of mean sensitivity in different regions of the visual field. results there was a significant correlation between change in the nei vfq-25 rasch scores during follow-up and change in different regions of the visual field. each 1 decibel (db)/year change in binocular mean sensitivity of the central inferior area was associated with a decline of 2.6 units/year in the nei vfq-25 scores (r(2) = 35%; p < 0.001). corresponding associations with change in qol scores for the peripheral inferior  central superior  and peripheral superior areas of the visual field had r(2) values of 30%  24%  and 19%  respectively. the association for the central inferior visual field area was statistically significantly stronger than those of the central superior area (p = 0.011) and peripheral superior area (p = 0.001)  but not the peripheral inferior area (p = 0.171). greater declines in nei vfq-25 scores were also seen in patients who had worse visual field sensitivity at baseline. conclusions progressive decline in sensitivity in the central inferior area of the visual field had the strongest association with longitudinal decline in qol of patients with glaucoma.
4216,immune signaling by rig-i-like receptors.,the rig-i-like receptors (rlrs) rig-i  mda5  and lgp2 play a major role in pathogen sensing of rna virus infection to initiate and modulate antiviral immunity. the rlrs detect viral rna ligands or processed self rna in the cytoplasm to trigger innate immunity and inflammation and to impart gene expression that serves to control infection. importantly  rlrs cooperate in signaling crosstalk networks with toll-like receptors and other factors to impart innate immunity and to modulate the adaptive immune response. rlr regulation occurs at a variety of levels ranging from autoregulation to ligand and cofactor interactions and posttranslational modifications. abberant rlr signaling or dysregulation of rlr expression is now implicated in the development of autoimmune diseases. understanding the processes of rlr signaling and response will provide insights to guide rlr-targeted therapeutics for antiviral and immune-modifying applications.
4218,cranial neural crest and the building of the vertebrate head,head development in vertebrates involves a complex series of molecular and morphogenetic events that generate a coordinated pattern of cartilages  bones and nerves  and result in species-specific craniofacial morphologies. a specialized cell type of neural origin  the neural crest  is central to this process  as it provides the main source of craniofacial mesenchyme. the degree of patterning information that is intrinsic to the neural crest has been recently debated  and new advances have underscored the influence of environmental signalling on the transcriptional readout that coordinates craniofacial morphogenesis in space and time.
4220,expression profiles of toll-like receptors in non-small cell lung cancer and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.,patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (ipf) have a higher incidence             of lung cancer. the role of toll-like receptors (tlrs)  a key component of the             innate immunity  in interstitial lung diseases (ilds) and lung cancer pathogenesis             is not clarified. tlr2  tlr3  tlr4  tlr7  tlr8 and tlr9 mrna expression was quantitatively             measured by real-time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (rt-pcr)             in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (balf) of 16 ipf patients  16 non-small cell lung             cancer (nsclc) patients and 9 control subjects. tlr2  tlr3  tlr4 and tlr9 protein             expression was assessed on balf t-lymphocytes using flow cytometry. tlr3 mrna             expression was significantly higher in nsclc compared to ipf (p=0.023) and controls             (p=0.001). tlr7 mrna expression levels were significantly higher in both nsclc             and ipf groups compared to controls (p=0.029  p=0.009). tlr9 expression at the             mrna level was significantly higher in both nsclc and ipf groups compared to controls             (p=0.01  p=0.001). finally  tlr2 mrna expression was significantly higher in ipf             patients compared to controls (p=0.042). flow cytometry revealed decreased tlr3             and tlr9 expression in ipf patients compared to the nsclc group (p=0.02  p=0.014)             and decreased tlr9 expression in ipf compared with the controls (p=0.04). tlr2             protein expression was significantly higher in ipf patients compared to nsclc             (p=0.04). increased expression of endosomal tlrs in nsclc patients and elevated             expression of tlr2 in pulmonary fibrosis are the main results of this study. these             results do not provide support for a common tlr pathway hypothesis between nsclc             and ipf.
4222,a rare mutation in unc5c predisposes to late-onset alzheimer's disease and increases neuronal cell death,we have identified a rare coding mutation  t835m (rs137875858)  in the unc5c netrin receptor gene that segregated with disease in an autosomal dominant pattern in two families enriched for late-onset alzheimer's disease and that was associated with disease across four large case-control cohorts (odds ratio = 2.15  pmeta = 0.0095). t835m alters a conserved residue in the hinge region of unc5c  and in vitro studies demonstrate that this mutation leads to increased cell death in human hek293t cells and in rodent neurons. furthermore  neurons expressing t835m unc5c are more susceptible to cell death from multiple neurotoxic stimuli  including β-amyloid (aβ)  glutamate and staurosporine. on the basis of these data and the enriched hippocampal expression of unc5c in the adult nervous system  we propose that one possible mechanism in which t835m unc5c contributes to the risk of alzheimer's disease is by increasing susceptibility to neuronal cell death  particularly in vulnerable regions of the alzheimer's disease brain.
4224,crystal structure and association behaviour of the glur2 amino-terminal domain.,fast excitatory neurotransmission is mediated largely by ionotropic glutamate receptors (iglurs)  tetrameric  ligand-gated ion channel proteins comprised of three subfamilies  ampa  kainate and nmda receptors  with each subfamily sharing a common  modular-domain architecture. for all receptor subfamilies  active channels are exclusively formed by assemblages of subunits within the same subfamily  a molecular process principally encoded by the amino-terminal domain (atd). however  the molecular basis by which the atd guides subfamily-specific receptor assembly is not known. here we show that ampa receptor glur1- and glur2-atds form tightly associated dimers and  by the analysis of crystal structures of the glur2-atd  propose mechanisms by which the atd guides subfamily-specific receptor assembly.
4226,stem cell characteristics in prostate cancer cell lines.,background recent studies indicate the presence of a small  stem-like cell population in several human cancers that is crucial for the tumour (re)population. objective six established prostate cancer (pca) cell lines-du145  ducap  lapc-4  22rv1  lncap  and pc-3-were examined for their stem cell properties in vitro. design  settings  and participants the colony-forming efficiency and self-renewal ability of morphologically distinguishable holoclones and paraclones were tested with low-density plating and serial passaging. expression of the putative stem cell marker cd133 and breast cancer resistance protein (bcrp) was examined with flow cytometry  and immunohistochemical stainings were made for cd133  alpha2-integrin  nestin  bcrp  cytokeratin 5 (ck5)  and cytokeratin 18 (ck18). results and limitations five out of six cell lines formed clear holo-  mero-  and paraclones. unlike paraclones  we can maintain du145 holoclones in culture for several passages  which is indicative of self-renewal ability. using fluorescence-activated cell sorting (facs) analysis only in du145 cells  a small fraction (0.01%) of cd133(+) cells was detected. cd133(+) cells; however  like du145 bcrp(+) (0.15%) cells  they were not more clonogenic  and they did not show more holoclone formation than the marker-negative cells or unselected cells. immunohistochemistry revealed alpha2-integrin and bcrp as potential stem cell markers and ck5 with the combination of ck18 to distinguish transient amplifying cells. conclusions these results indicate the possible presence of stem-like cells in several established pca cell lines. cd133 selection does not enrich for stem-like cells in pca cell lines.
4228,unmet needs and depressive symptoms among low--income older adults.,previous studies have found that declining health  decreased social interaction  and inadequate financial resources were significant risk factors for late-life depression  and social support from families and friends and religiosity were significant protective factors. in this study  we examined if low-income older adults' perceived unmet need for home- and community-based services for many aging-associated problems would be independently associated with their depressive symptoms  controlling for these known risk and protective factors. we interviewed a total of 213 community-residing older adults to assess their depressive symptoms  using the geriatric depression scale (gds)  and unmet needs in the areas of personal assistance  instrumental and environmental support  emotional support  and other facilitative/enabling services. we found that the number of unmet needs was significantly positively associated with these older adults' depressive symptoms  although it explained only a small proportion of the variance of the gds scores. future research and practice implications are discussed.
4230,data analysis methods for detection of differential protein expression in two-dimensional gel electrophoresis.,the recent development of microarray technology has led statisticians and bioinformaticians to develop new statistical methodologies for comparing different biological samples. the objective is to identify a small number of differentially expressed genes from among thousands. in quantitative proteomics  analysis of protein expression using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis shows some similarities with transcriptomic studies. thus  the goal of this study was to evaluate different data analysis methodologies widely used in array analysis using different proteomic data sets of hundreds of proteins. even with few replications  the significance analysis of microarrays method appeared to be more powerful than the student's t test in truly declaring differentially expressed proteins. this procedure will avoid wasting time due to false positives and losing information with false negatives.
4232,sivrcm infection of macaques.,in a prior report  we described the isolation and characterization of sivrcm  a distinct primate lentivirus found in a household pet red-capped mangabey (rcm) in gabon. sivrcm is divergent from hiv-1 and hiv-2/siv families of primate lentiviruses. in this report  additional in vitro replication studies and the results of sivrcm infection in macaques are presented. sivrcm causes little cytopathic effedct in molt 4 clone 8 cells and in rhesus and human pbmcs. in vivo  sivrcm is non-pathogenic after 200 days in rhesus macaques and after one year in cynomolgous macaques  but does cause a chronic infection in both macaques.
4234,acylated and desacyl ghrelin stimulate lipid accumulation in human visceral adipocytes,objectives:the orexigenic hormone ghrelin circulates mainly in two forms  acylated and desacyl ghrelin. we evaluated the impact of obesity and obesity-associated type 2 diabetes (t2d) on ghrelin forms and the potential role of acylated and desacyl ghrelin in the control of adipogenesis in humans. methods:plasma concentrations of the different ghrelin forms were measured in 80 subjects. the expression of the ghrelin receptor (growth hormone secretagogue receptor  ghs-r) was analyzed in omental adipose tissue using western blot and immunohistochemistry  and the effect of acylated ghrelin and desacyl ghrelin (0.1–1000 pmol l−1) on adipogenesis was determined in vitro in omental adipocytes. results:circulating concentrations of acylated ghrelin were increased  whereas desacyl ghrelin levels were decreased  in obesity and obesity-associated t2d. body mass index  waist circumference  insulin and homa (homeostasis model assessment) index were positively correlated with acylated ghrelin levels. obese individuals showed a lower protein expression of ghs-r in omental adipose tissue. in differentiating omental adipocytes  incubation with both acylated and desacyl ghrelin significantly increased pparγ (peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ) and srebp1 (sterol-regulatory element binding protein-1) mrna levels  as well as several fat storage-related proteins  including acetyl-coa carboxylase  fatty acid synthase  lipoprotein lipase and perilipin. consequently  both the ghrelin forms stimulated intracytoplasmatic lipid accumulation. conclusions:both acylated and desacyl ghrelin stimulate lipid accumulation in human visceral adipocytes. given the lipogenic effect of acylated ghrelin on visceral adipocytes  the herein-reported elevation of its circulating concentrations in obese individuals may play a role in excessive fat accumulation in obesity.
4236,evaluating the impact of pharmacists in mental health: a systematic review.,efforts to improve the outcomes of patients with mental illness often have involved incorporating the skills of a variety of health care professionals into collaborative care models. for over 30 years  clinical pharmacists have contributed to these care models in capacities ranging from educator to consultant to provider. this systematic review evaluates the quantity and quality of medical literature examining the impact of pharmacists in mental health from 1972-2003. although we identified approximately 35 publications describing the roles of clinical pharmacists in this regard  only 16 were of sufficient scientific rigor to permit evaluation and comparison. the 16 studies were divided equally between inpatient and outpatient settings and were conducted in a variety of health care organizations (e.g.  veterans administration  health maintenance organizations  community mental health clinics  and nursing homes). nine of the studies examined the role of pharmacists in providing treatment recommendations and patient education  five featured pharmacists as providers (with prescriptive authority)  and the remaining two described the impact pharmacists have in delivering education to the psychiatric staff. six of the 16 studies were prospective  but only three of these incorporated a randomization procedure for patients or facilities. collectively  the results of the 16 studies were positive  demonstrating improvements in outcomes  prescribing practices  patient satisfaction  and resource use. unfortunately  most of the investigations were small  and significant limitations in study design limited further comparison. given the long history and anecdotal success of pharmacists in mental health care settings  additional multicenter cost-effectiveness trials are warranted to further support the role of the psychiatric pharmacist.
4238,control of signaling-mediated clearance of apoptotic cells by the tumor suppressor p53,the inefficient clearance of dying cells can lead to abnormal immune responses  such as unresolved inflammation and autoimmune conditions. we show that tumor suppressor p53 controls signaling-mediated phagocytosis of apoptotic cells through its target  death domain1α (dd1α)  which suggests that p53 promotes both the proapoptotic pathway and postapoptotic events. dd1α appears to function as an engulfment ligand or receptor that engages in homophilic intermolecular interaction at intercellular junctions of apoptotic cells and macrophages  unlike other typical scavenger receptors that recognize phosphatidylserine on the surface of dead cells. dd1α-deficient mice showed in vivo defects in clearing dying cells  which led to multiple organ damage indicative of immune dysfunction. p53-induced expression of dd1α thus prevents persistence of cell corpses and ensures efficient generation of precise immune responses.
4240,tgf-beta suppresses tumor progression in colon cancer by inhibition of il-6 trans-signaling.,alterations of tgf-beta signaling have been described in colorectal cancer  although the molecular consequences are largely unknown. by using transgenic mice overexpressing tgf-beta or a dominant-negative tgf-betarii  we demonstrate that tgf-beta signaling in tumor infiltrating t lymphocytes controls the growth of dysplastic epithelial cells in experimental colorectal cancer  as determined by histology and a novel system for high-resolution chromoendoscopy. at the molecular level  tgf-beta signaling in t cells regulated stat-3 activation in tumor cells via il-6. il-6 signaling required tumor cell-derived soluble il-6r rather than membrane bound il-6r and suppression of such tgf-beta-dependent il-6 trans-signaling prevented tumor progression in vivo. taken together  our data provide novel insights into tgf-beta signaling in colorectal cancer and suggest novel therapeutic approaches for colorectal cancer based on inhibition of tgf-beta-dependent il-6 trans-signaling.
4242,the emergence of order in the drosophila pupal retina.,during pupation  long-range order is imposed on the autonomously developing ommatidia which compose the drosophila eye. to accomplish this  eight additional cell types arise: the primary  secondary  and tertiary pigment cells  and the four cells that form the bristle. these cells form an interweaving lattice between ommatidia. the lattice is refined when excess cells are removed to bring neighboring ommatidia into register. recent evidence suggests that in larval development  local contacts direct cell fate. the same appears to be true during pupal development: the contacts a cell makes predict the cell type it will become. cells which contact the anterior or posterior cone cells in an ommatidium invariably become primary pigment cells. cells which contact primary pigment cells from different ommatidia become secondary and tertiary pigment cells. bristle development is in several ways distinct from ommatidial development. the four cells of each bristle group appear to be immediate descendents of a single founder cell. during their early differentiation  they do not make stereotyped contacts with surrounding ommatidial cells  but do make particular contacts within the bristle group. and unlike the surrounding ommatidia  differentiation of the bristles radiates from the center of the eye to the edges. as cells are removed during two stages of programmed cell death  the bristles are brought into their final position. when all cells in the lattice have achieved their final position  a second stage of retinal development begins as structures specific to each cell type are produced. this paper follows these various stages of pupal development  and suggests how local cell-cell contacts may produce the cells needed for a functional retina.
4244,risk factors associated with symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux.,background although patients with gastroesophageal reflux are often instructed to change their lifestyle  population-based data on the risk factors for reflux in the united states are lacking. methods we performed a cross-sectional study in an age- and gender-stratified random sample of the population of olmsted county  minnesota. residents aged 25 to 74 years were mailed a valid self-report questionnaire that measured reflux symptoms and potential risk factors. logistic regression was used to estimate the odds ratios (or) with 95% confidence intervals (ci) for reflux symptoms (heartburn or acid regurgitation) associated with potential risk factors. results overall  1 524 (72%) of 2 118 eligible subjects responded. a body mass index >30 kg/m2 (or = 2.8; ci  1.7 to 4.5)  reporting an immediate family member with heartburn or disease of the esophagus or stomach (or = 2.6; ci  1.8 to 3.7)  a past history of smoking (or = 1.6; ci  1.1 to 2.3)  consuming more than seven drinks per week (or = 1.9; cl  1.1 to 3.3)  and a higher psychosomatic symptom checklist score (or per 5 units = 1.4; ci  1.3 to 1.6) were independently associated with frequent (at least weekly) reflux symptoms. conclusion obesity is a strong risk factor for gastroesophageal reflux  although the value of weight reduction remains to be proven. that family history was also a risk factor suggests that there may be a genetic component to the disorder.
4246,coregulators in nuclear estrogen receptor action: from concept to therapeutic targeting.,estrogens are key regulators of growth  differentiation  and the physiological functions of a wide range of target tissues  including the male and female reproductive tracts  breast  and skeletal  nervous  cardiovascular  digestive and immune systems. the majority of these biological activities of estrogens are mediated through two genetically distinct receptors  eralpha and erbeta  which function as hormone-inducible transcription factors. over the past decade  it has become increasingly clear that the recruitment of coregulatory proteins to ers is required for er-mediated transcriptional and biological activities. these "coactivator" complexes enable the ers to respond appropriately: 1) to hormones or pharmacological ligands  2) interpret extra- and intra-cellular signals  3) catalyze the process of chromatin condensation and 4) to communicate with the general transcription apparatus at target gene promoters. in addition to activating proteins  the existence of corepressors  proteins that function as negative regulators of er activity in either physiological or pharmacological contexts  provides an additional level of complexity in er action. this review also describes current efforts aimed at developing pharmaceutical agents that target er-cofactor interactions as therapeutics for estrogen-associated pathologies.
4248,lithium therapy improves neurological function and hippocampal dendritic arborization in a spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 mouse model,background  spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 (sca1) is a dominantly inherited neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive motor and cognitive dysfunction. caused by an expanded polyglutamine tract in ataxin 1 (atxn1)  sca1 pathogenesis involves a multifactorial process that likely begins with misfolding of atxn1  which has functional consequences on its interactions  leading to transcriptional dysregulation. because lithium has been shown to exert neuroprotective effects in a variety of conditions  possibly by affecting gene expression  we tested the efficacy of lithium treatment in a knock-in mouse model of sca1 (sca1154q/2q mice) that replicates many features of the human disease. methods and findings  sca1154q/2q mice and their wild-type littermates were fed either regular chow or chow that contained 0.2% lithium carbonate. dietary lithium carbonate supplementation resulted in improvement of motor coordination  learning  and memory in sca1154q/2q mice. importantly  motor improvement was seen when treatment was initiated both presymptomatically and after symptom onset. neuropathologically  lithium treatment attenuated the reduction of dendritic branching in mutant hippocampal pyramidal neurons. we also report that lithium treatment restored the levels of isoprenylcysteine carboxyl methyltransferase (icmt; alternatively  pccmt)  down-regulation of which is an early marker of mutant atxn1 toxicity. conclusions  the effect of lithium on a marker altered early in the course of sca1 pathogenesis  coupled with its positive effect on multiple behavioral measures and hippocampal neuropathology in an authentic disease model  make it an excellent candidate treatment for human sca1 patients.
4250,association of plasma resistin with glomerular filtration rate and albuminuria in hypertensive adults.,resistin  a recently discovered proinflammatory cytokine  has been variably associated with insulin resistance  inflammation  and renal dysfunction. we investigated the association of plasma resistin with estimated glomerular filtration rate and albuminuria in 1575 hypertensive adults without known coronary heart disease or stroke (857 blacks and 718 non-hispanic whites). resistin was measured by a solid phase sandwich immunoassay  estimated glomerular filtration rate was estimated from serum creatinine  and albuminuria was expressed as urine albumin:creatinine ratio. after adjustment for coronary heart disease risk factors (age  sex  body mass index  smoking history  systolic blood pressure  diabetes  and total and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol) and use of renin-angiotensin blockers and statins  higher plasma resistin levels were associated with lower estimated glomerular filtration rate in both ethnic groups (each p<0.0001); the association remained significant after further adjustment for a marker of insulin resistance (homeostasis model assessment for insulin resistance) and a marker of inflammation (plasma c-reactive protein) and was seen in subjects with and without diabetes (each p<0.0001) in both ethnic groups. higher plasma resistin levels were associated with a higher urine albumin:creatinine ratio in black subjects with diabetes (p<0.0001) and non-hispanic white subjects with diabetes (p=0.032)  independent of coronary heart disease risk factors  hypertension medication use  and statin use; the association remained significant after additional adjustment for homeostasis model assessment for insulin resistance and c-reactive protein. in adults with hypertension  higher circulating resistin levels were associated with a lower estimated glomerular filtration rate and with increased urine albumin:creatinine ratio in the presence of concomitant diabetes. this association was independent of coronary heart disease risk factors and markers of insulin resistance and inflammation.
4252,the cancer stem cell hypothesis: a guide to potential molecular targets.,common cancer theories hold that tumor is an uncontrolled somatic cell proliferation caused by the progressive addition of random mutations in critical genes that control cell growth. nevertheless  various contradictions related to the mutation theory have been reported previously. these events may be elucidated by the persistence of residual tumor cells  called cancer stem cells (cscs) responsible for tumorigenesis  tumor maintenance  tumor spread  and tumor relapse. herein  we summarize the current understanding of cscs  with a focus on the possibility to identify specific markers of cscs  and discuss the clinical application of targeting cscs for cancer treatment.
4254,body size and outcomes on peritoneal dialysis in the united states.,background being overweight is often cited as a relative contraindication to peritoneal dialysis. our primary objective was to determine whether actual mortality rates support this opinion. methods retrospective cohort study of united states medicare patients initiating dialysis between 1995 and 2000 (n = 418 021; 11% peritoneal dialysis). results seven percent were underweight [body mass index (bmi) < 18.5 kg/m2]  27% were overweight (bmi 25.0 to 29.9 kg/m2)  and 23% were obese (bmi> 29.9 kg/m2) at dialysis initiation. compared to those with normal bmi  the adjusted odds of initiating peritoneal dialysis were 0.70 (p < 0.05) in underweight  1.12 (p < 0.05) in overweight  and 0.87 (p < 0.05) in obese subjects. among peritoneal dialysis patients  adjusted mortality hazard ratios in the first  second  and third year were 1.45 (p < 0.05)  1.28 (p < 0.05)  and 1.17 for the underweight  respectively; 0.84 (p < 0.05)  0.89 (p < 0.05)  and 0.98 for the overweight  respectively; and 0.89 (p < 0.05)  0.99  and 1.00 for the obese  respectively. apart from higher third-year mortality in the obese  associations were similar after censoring at a switch to hemodialysis. for transplantation  the corresponding results were 0.76 (p < 0.05)  0.90 (p < 0.05)  and 0.88 for the underweight  respectively; 0.95  1.06  and 0.93 for the overweight  respectively; and 0.62 (p < 0.05)  0.68  and 0.71 for the obese  respectively. for switching to hemodialysis  hazards ratios were 0.92  0.97  and 0.80 for the underweight  respectively; 1.07  1.11 (p < 0.05)  and 1.03 for the overweight  respectively; and 1.28 (p < 0.05)  1.29 (p < 0.05)  and 1.36 (p < 0.05) for the obese  respectively. conclusion although less likely to initiate peritoneal dialysis  overweight and obese peritoneal dialysis patients have longer survival than those with lower bmi  not adequately explained by lower transplantation and technique survival rates.
4256,regulation of the expression of alkaline phosphatase in a human breast-cancer cell line.,treatment of the cultured human breast-cancer cells bc-m1 with dexamethasone induced a placental-type alkaline phosphatase (alp). both the alp activity and the mrna level in the cells were increased. the induction of alp activity by dexamethasone was time- and dose-dependent. the accumulation of alp mrna was inhibited by both actinomycin d and cycloheximide  indicating that its induction is a complex event and may involve other regulatory proteins. retinoic acid showed opposing effects with dexamethasone on the expression of alkaline phosphatase. retinoic acid (ra) and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate also substantially reduced the dexamethasone-induced expression of alp. studies on thermostability and sensitivity to various amino acid inhibitors indicated that the bc-m1 alp is most similar to the placental form. northern hybridization analysis also revealed that alp mrna transcripts in bc-m1 and term placenta are similar in size and are distinct from that of the placental-like mrna transcript in choriocarcinoma cells. analysis of the degradation of bc-m1 alp mrna showed a similar half-life of 27 h in the untreated and in dexamethasone- or ra-treated cells. these findings demonstrated that the induction of alp in bc-m1 cells by dexamethasone is mainly due to the increase in the transcription of the alp gene.
4258,advances in techniques of testing mycobacterial drug sensitivity  and the use of sensitivity tests in tuberculosis control programmes.,in a paper arising out of an informal international consultation of specialists in the bacteriology of tuberculosis held in 1961  an attempt was made to formulate criteria  and specify technical procedures  for reliable tests of sensitivity (the absolute-concentration method  the resistance-ratio method and the proportion method) to the 3 main antituberculosis drugs (isoniazid  streptomycin and p-aminosalicylic acid). seven years later  a further consultation was held to review the latest developments in the field and to suggest how sensitivity tests might be put to practical use in tuberculosis control programmes. the participants reached agreement on how to define drug sensitivity and resistance  and stressed the importance of using a discrimination approach to the calibration of sensitivity tests. their views are contained in the present paper  which also includes descriptions of the sensitivity tests used by the medical research council of great britain for first- and second-line drugs (minimal inhibitory concentration and resistance-ratio methods)  the two main variants of the proportion method developed by the institut pasteur  paris  and a method for calibrating sensitivity tests.
4260,krüppel-like factor 2 (klf2) regulates b-cell reactivity  subset differentiation  and trafficking molecule expression.,the transcription factor krüppel-like factor 2 (klf2) is critical for normal trafficking of t lymphocytes  but its role in b cells is unclear. we report that b cell-specific klf2 deficiency leads to decreased expression of the trafficking molecules cd62l and β7-integrin  yet expression of sphingosine-1 phosphate receptor 1 (which is a critical target of klf2 in t cells) was  unexpectedly  minimally altered. unexpectedly  klf2 deletion led to a drastic reduction in the b1 b-cell pool and a substantial increase in transitional and marginal zone b-cell numbers. in addition  we observed that klf2-deficient b cells showed increased apoptosis and impaired proliferation after b-cell receptor cross-linking. gene expression analysis indicated that klf2-deficient follicular b cells display numerous characteristics shared by normal marginal zone b cells  including reduced expression of several signaling molecules that may contribute to defective activation of these cells. hence  our data indicate that klf2 plays a critical role in dictating normal subset differentiation and functional reactivity of mature b cells.
4262,thrombopoietin/mpl signaling regulates hematopoietic stem cell quiescence and interaction with the osteoblastic niche.,maintenance of hematopoietic stem cells (hscs) depends on interaction with their niche. here we show that the long-term (lt)-hscs expressing the thrombopoietin (thpo) receptor  mpl  are a quiescent population in adult bone marrow (bm) and are closely associated with thpo-producing osteoblastic cells. thpo/mpl signaling upregulated beta1-integrin and cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors in hscs. furthermore  inhibition and stimulation of thpo/mpl pathway by treatments with anti-mpl neutralizing antibody  amm2  and with thpo showed reciprocal regulation of quiescence of lt-hsc. amm2 treatment reduced the number of quiescent lt-hscs and allowed exogenous hsc engraftment without irradiation. by contrast  exogenous thpo transiently increased quiescent hsc population and subsequently induced hsc proliferation in vivo. altogether  these observations suggest that thpo/mpl signaling plays a critical role of lt-hsc regulation in the osteoblastic niche.
4264,the role of regulatory variation in complex traits and disease,we are in a phase of unprecedented progress in identifying genetic loci that cause variation in traits ranging from growth and fitness in simple organisms to disease in humans. however  a mechanistic understanding of how these loci influence traits is lacking for the majority of loci. studies of the genetics of gene expression have emerged as a key tool for linking dna sequence variation to phenotypes. here  we review recent insights into the molecular nature of regulatory variants and describe their influence on the transcriptome and the proteome. we discuss conceptual advances from studies in model organisms and present examples of complete chains of causality that link individual polymorphisms to changes in gene expression  which in turn result in physiological changes and  ultimately  disease risk.
4266,the epithelial inward rectifier channel kir7.1 displays unusual k+ permeation properties.,rat and human cdnas were isolated that both encoded a 360 amino acid polypeptide with a tertiary structure typical of inwardly rectifying k+ channel (kir) subunits. the new proteins  termed kir7.1  were <37% identical to other kir subunits and showed various unique residues at conserved sites  particularly near the pore region. high levels of kir7.1 transcripts were detected in rat brain  lung  kidney  and testis. in situ hybridization of rat brain sections demonstrated that kir7.1 mrna was absent from neurons and glia but strongly expressed in the secretory epithelial cells of the choroid plexus (as confirmed by in situ patch-clamp measurements). in crna-injected xenopus oocytes kir7.1 generated macroscopic kir currents that showed a very shallow dependence on external k+ ([k+]e)  which is in marked contrast to all other kir channels. at a holding potential of -100 mv  the inward current through kir7.1 averaged -3.8 +/- 1.04 microa with 2 mm [k+]e and -4.82 +/- 1.87 microa with 96 mm [k+]e. kir7.1 has a methionine at position 125 in the pore region where other kir channels have an arginine. when this residue was replaced by the conserved arginine in mutant kir7.1 channels  the pronounced dependence of k+ permeability on [k+]e  characteristic for other kir channels  was restored and the ba2+ sensitivity was increased by a factor of approximately 25 (ki = 27 microm). these findings support the important role of this site in the regulation of k+ permeability in kir channels by extracellular cations.
4268,nonoverlapping functions of dna polymerases mu  lambda  and terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase during immunoglobulin v(d)j recombination in vivo.,dna polymerases mu (pol mu)  lambda (pol lambda)  and terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase (tdt) are enzymes of the pol x family that share homology in sequence and functional domain organization. we showed previously that pol mu participates in light chain but surprisingly not heavy chain gene rearrangement. we show here that immunoglobulin heavy chain junctions from pol lambda-deficient animals have shorter length with normal n-additions  thus indicating that pol lambda is recruited during heavy chain rearrangement at a step that precedes the action of tdt. in contrast to previous in vitro studies  analysis of animals with combined inactivation of these enzymes revealed no overlapping or compensatory activities for v(d)j recombination between pol mu  pol lambda  and tdt. this complex usage of polymerases with distinct catalytic specificities may correspond to the specific function that the third hypervariable region assumes for each immunoglobulin chain  with pol lambda maintaining a large heavy chain junctional heterogeneity and pol mu ensuring a restricted light chain junctional variability.
4270,competition between target sites of regulators shapes post-transcriptional gene regulation,post-transcriptional gene regulation (ptgr) of mrna turnover  localization and translation is mediated by micrornas (mirnas) and rna-binding proteins (rbps). these regulators exert their effects by binding to specific sequences within their target mrnas. increasing evidence suggests that competition for binding is a fundamental principle of ptgr. not only can mirnas be sequestered and neutralized by the targets with which they interact through a process termed 'sponging'  but competition between binding sites on different rnas may also lead to regulatory crosstalk between transcripts. here  we quantitatively model competition effects under physiological conditions and review the role of endogenous sponges for ptgr in light of the key features that emerge.
4272,chimeric live  attenuated vaccine against japanese encephalitis (chimerivax-je): phase 2 clinical trials for safety and immunogenicity  effect of vaccine dose and schedule  and memory response to challenge with inactivated japanese encephalitis antigen.,chimerivax-je is a live  attenuated vaccine against japanese encephalitis  using yellow fever (yf) 17d vaccine as a vector. in a double-blind phase 2 trial  99 adults received vaccine  placebo  or yf 17d vaccine (yf-vax). chimerivax-je was well tolerated  with no differences in adverse events between treatment groups. viremias resulting from administration of chimerivax-je and yf-vax were of short duration and low titer; 82 (94%) of 87 subjects administered graded doses (1.8-5.8 log(10)) of chimerivax-je developed neutralizing antibodies. a second dose  administered 30 days later  had no booster effect. previous inoculation with yf did not interfere with chimerivax-je  but there was a suggestion (not statistically significant) that chimerivax-je interfered with yf-vax administered 30 days later. a separate study explored immunological memory both in subjects who had received chimerivax-je 9 months before and in chimerivax-je-naive subjects challenged with inactivated mouse-brain vaccine (je-vax). anamnestic responses were observed in preimmune individuals. chimerivax-je appears to be a safe vaccine that provides protective levels of neutralizing antibody after a single dose.
4274,expression of optineurin  a glaucoma-linked gene  is influenced by elevated intraocular pressure.,optineurin (optic neuropathy inducing protein; optn) was recently linked to 16.7% of families with primary open-angle glaucoma. the function of optn in the eye is not known  but is present in the trabecular meshwork  which is responsible for maintenance of intraocular pressure (iop). to gain insight into the role of optn in the development of glaucoma we studied its expression in response to factors known to be associated with the disease: elevated iop  tumor necrosis factor-alpha (tnfalpha)  and dexamethasone (dex). we performed the treatments in human organ cultures under conditions mimicking physiological pressure. we find optn significantly upregulated after 2  4  and 7 days of sustained elevated iop. optn expression is also induced 2.3-fold by tnfalpha and 2.6-fold by prolonged dex treatment. these results demonstrate that optn is part of the transcriptome responding to glaucomatous insults and support the protective role of this protein in the trabecular meshwork.
4276,activation of ampkα2 in adipocytes is essential for nicotine-induced insulin resistance in vivo,cigarette smoking promotes body weight reduction in humans while paradoxically also promoting insulin resistance (ir) and hyperinsulinemia. however  the mechanisms behind these effects are unclear. here we show that nicotine  a major constituent of cigarette smoke  selectively activates amp-activated protein kinase α2 (ampkα2) in adipocytes  which in turn phosphorylates map kinase phosphatase-1 (mkp1) at serine 334  initiating its proteasome-dependent degradation. the nicotine-dependent reduction of mkp1 induces the aberrant activation of both p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase and c-jun n-terminal kinase  leading to increased phosphorylation of insulin receptor substrate 1 (irs1) at serine 307. phosphorylation of irs1 leads to its degradation  protein kinase b inhibition  and the loss of insulin-mediated inhibition of lipolysis. consequently  nicotine increases lipolysis  which results in body weight reduction  but this increase also elevates the levels of circulating free fatty acids and thus causes ir in insulin-sensitive tissues. these results establish ampkα2 as an essential mediator of nicotine-induced whole-body ir in spite of reductions in adiposity.
4278,a cluster randomized  controlled trial of breast and cervix cancer screening in mumbai  india: methodology and interim results after three rounds of screening.,cervix and breast cancers are the most common cancers among women worldwide and extract a large toll in developing countries. in may 1998  supported by a grant from the nci (us)  the tata memorial hospital  mumbai  india  started a cluster-randomized  controlled  screening-trial for cervix and breast cancer using trained primary health workers to provide health-education  visual-inspection of cervix (with 4% acetic acid-via) and clinical breast examination (cbe) in the screening arm  and only health education in the control arm. four rounds of screening at 2-year intervals will be followed by 8 years of monitoring for incidence and mortality from cervix and breast cancers. the methodology and interim results after three rounds of screening are presented here. good randomization was achieved between the screening (n = 75360) and control arms (n = 76178). in the screening arm we see: high screening participation rates; low attrition; good compliance to diagnostic confirmation; significant downstaging; excellent treatment completion rate; improving case fatality ratios. the ever-screened and never-screened participants in the screening arm show significant differences with reference to the variables religion  language  age  education  occupation  income and health-seeking behavior for gynecological and breast-related complaints. during the same period  in the control arm we see excellent participation rate for health education; low attrition and a good number of symptomatic referrals for both cervix and breast.
4280,role of gut commensal microflora in the development of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis.,mucosal tolerance has been considered a potentially important pathway for the treatment of autoimmune disease  including human multiple sclerosis and experimental conditions such as experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (eae). there is limited information on the capacity of commensal gut bacteria to induce and maintain peripheral immune tolerance. inbred sjl and c57bl/6 mice were treated orally with a broad spectrum of antibiotics to reduce gut microflora. reduction of gut commensal bacteria impaired the development of eae. intraperitoneal antibiotic-treated mice showed no significant decline in the gut microflora and developed eae similar to untreated mice  suggesting that reduction in disease activity was related to alterations in the gut bacterial population. protection was associated with a reduction of proinflammatory cytokines and increases in il-10 and il-13. adoptive transfer of low numbers of il-10-producing cd25(+)cd4(+) t cells (>75% foxp3(+)) purified from cervical lymph nodes of commensal bacteria reduced mice and in vivo neutralization of cd25(+) cells suggested the role of regulatory t cells maintaining peripheral immune homeostasis. our data demonstrate that antibiotic modification of gut commensal bacteria can modulate peripheral immune tolerance that can protect against eae. this approach may offer a new therapeutic paradigm in the treatment of multiple sclerosis and perhaps other autoimmune conditions.
4282,antihypertensive classes  cognitive decline and incidence of dementia: a network meta-analysis.,objectives prevention of cognitive decline and dementia with blood pressure lowering treatments has shown inconsistent results. we compared the effects of different classes of antihypertensive drugs on the incidence of dementia  and on cognitive function. methods we conducted a systematic review and included 19 randomized trials (18 515 individuals) and 11 studies (831 674 individuals) analysing the effects of antihypertensive treatment on cognition and on the incidence of dementia  respectively  in hypertensive patients without prior cerebrovascular disorders. network meta-analysis was used for the comparison of antihypertensive classes. results antihypertensive treatment  regardless of the drug class  had benefits on overall cognition [effect size 0.05  95% confidence interval (ci) 0.02-0.07] and all cognitive functions except language. antihypertensive treatment reduced the risk of all-cause dementia by 9%  with reference to the control group (hazard ratio 0.91  95% ci 0.89-0.94)  when randomized trials and observationnal studies were combined (n = 15). result was not significant with randomized trials alone (n = 4). angiotensin ii receptor blockers (arbs) had larger benefits than placebo on overall cognition (adjusted effect size 0.60 ± 0.18  p = 0.02). arbs were more effective than β-blockers (0.67 ± 0.18  p = 0.01)  diuretics (0.54 ± 0.19  p = 0.04) and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (0.47 ± 0.17  p = 0.04) in rank. the mean change in blood pressure did not differ significantly between the different antihypertensive drug classes. conclusion our results support the notion that antihypertensive treatment has beneficial effects on cognitive decline and prevention of dementia  and indicate that these effects may differ between drug classes with arbs possibly being the most effective.
4284,cellular adaptation to mechanical stress: role of integrins  rho  cytoskeletal tension and mechanosensitive ion channels.,to understand how cells sense and adapt to mechanical stress  we applied tensional forces to magnetic microbeads bound to cell-surface integrin receptors and measured changes in bead displacement with sub-micrometer resolution using optical microscopy. cells exhibited four types of mechanical responses: (1) an immediate viscoelastic response; (2) early adaptive behavior characterized by pulse-to-pulse attenuation in response to oscillatory forces; (3) later adaptive cell stiffening with sustained (>15 second) static stresses; and (4) a large-scale repositioning response with prolonged (>1 minute) stress. importantly  these adaptation responses differed biochemically. the immediate and early responses were affected by chemically dissipating cytoskeletal prestress (isometric tension)  whereas the later adaptive response was not. the repositioning response was prevented by inhibiting tension through interference with rho signaling  similar to the case of the immediate and early responses  but it was also prevented by blocking mechanosensitive ion channels or by inhibiting src tyrosine kinases. all adaptive responses were suppressed by cooling cells to 4 degrees c to slow biochemical remodeling. thus  cells use multiple mechanisms to sense and respond to static and dynamic changes in the level of mechanical stress applied to integrins.
4286,type 2 diabetes and subsequent incidence of breast cancer in the nurses' health study.,objective hyperinsulinemia may promote mammary carcinogenesis. insulin resistance has been linked to an increased risk of breast cancer and is also characteristic of type 2 diabetes. we prospectively evaluated the association between type 2 diabetes and invasive breast cancer incidence in the nurses' health study. research design and methods a total of 116 488 female nurses who were 30-55 years old and free of cancer in 1976 were followed through 1996 for the occurrence of type 2 diabetes and through 1998 for incident invasive breast cancer  verified by medical records and pathology reports. results during 2.3 million person-years of follow-up  we identified 6 220 women with type 2 diabetes and 5 189 incident cases of invasive breast cancer. women with type 2 diabetes had a modestly elevated incidence of breast cancer (hazard ratio [hr] = 1.17; 95% ci 1.01-1.35) compared with women without diabetes  independent of age  obesity  family history of breast cancer  history of benign breast disease  reproductive factors  physical activity  and alcohol consumption. this association was apparent among postmenopausal women (1.16; 0.98-1.62) but not premenopausal women (0.83; 0.48-1.42). the association was predominant among women with estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer (1.22; 1.01-1.47). conclusions women with type 2 diabetes may have a slightly increased risk of breast cancer.
4288,wolfram syndrome 1 and adenylyl cyclase 8 interact at the plasma membrane to regulate insulin production and secretion,endoplasmic reticulum (er) stress causes pancreatic β-cell dysfunction and contributes to β-cell loss and the progression of type 2 diabetes. wolfram syndrome 1 (wfs1) has been shown to be an important regulator of the er stress signalling pathway; however  its role in β-cell function remains unclear. here we provide evidence that wfs1 is essential for glucose- and glucagon-like peptide 1 (glp-1)-stimulated cyclic amp production and regulation of insulin biosynthesis and secretion. stimulation with glucose causes wfs1 translocation from the er to the plasma membrane  where it forms a complex with adenylyl cyclase 8 (ac8)  an essential camp-generating enzyme in the β-cell that integrates glucose and glp-1 signalling. er stress and mutant wfs1 inhibit complex formation and activation of ac8  reducing camp synthesis and insulin secretion. these findings reveal that an er-stress-related protein has a distinct role outside the er regulating both insulin biosynthesis and secretion. the reduction of wfs1 protein on the plasma membrane during er stress is a contributing factor for β-cell dysfunction and progression of type 2 diabetes.
4290,ghrelin's second life: from appetite stimulator to glucose regulator.,ghrelin  a 28 amino acid peptide hormone produced by the stomach  was the first orexigenic hormone to be discovered from the periphery. the octanoyl modification at ser³  mediated by ghrelin o-acyltransferase (goat)  is essential for ghrelin's biological activity. ghrelin stimulates food intake through binding to its receptor (grln-r) on neurons in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus. ghrelin is widely expressed throughout the body; accordingly  it is implicated in several other physiological functions  which include growth hormone release  gastric emptying  and body weight regulation. ghrelin and grln-r expression are also found in the pancreas  suggesting a local physiological role. accordingly  several recent studies now point towards an important role for ghrelin and its receptor in the regulation of blood glucose homeostasis  which is the main focus of this review. several mechanisms of this regulation by ghrelin have been proposed  and one possibility is through the regulation of insulin secretion. despite some controversy  most studies suggest that ghrelin exerts an inhibitory effect on insulin secretion  resulting in increased circulating glucose levels. ghrelin may thus be a diabetogenic factor. obesity-related type 2 diabetes has become an increasingly important health problem  almost reaching epidemic proportions in the world; therefore  antagonists of the ghrelin-goat signaling pathway  which will tackle both energy- and glucose homeostasis  may be considered as promising new therapies for this disease.
4292,neuroinflammation in spinal cord injury: therapeutic targets for neuroprotection and regeneration.,traumatic spinal cord injury triggers a complex local inflammatory reaction capable of enhancing repair and exacerbating pathology. the composition and effector potential of the post-injury cellular and molecular immune cascade changes as a function of time and distance from the lesion. production along this time-space continuum of cytokines  proteases  and growth factors establishes dynamic environments that lead to the death  damage  repair or growth of affected neurons and glia. microenvironmental cues  therefore  generated by the cells therein  may determine these distinct fates of repair versus pathology. to harness repair  it is necessary to manipulate the assembly and phenotype of cells that comprise the neuroinflammatory response to injury. here  the potential of the neuroinflammatory response to cause outcomes such as pain  regeneration  and functional recovery is reviewed.
4294,the neurovascular unit coming of age: a journey through neurovascular coupling in health and disease,the concept of the neurovascular unit (nvu)  formalized at the 2001 stroke progress review group meeting of the national institute of neurological disorders and stroke  emphasizes the intimate relationship between the brain and its vessels. since then  the nvu has attracted the interest of the neuroscience community  resulting in considerable advances in the field. here the current state of knowledge of the nvu will be assessed  focusing on one of its most vital roles: the coupling between neural activity and blood flow. the evidence supports a conceptual shift in the mechanisms of neurovascular coupling  from a unidimensional process involving neuronal-astrocytic signaling to local blood vessels to a multidimensional one in which mediators released from multiple cells engage distinct signaling pathways and effector systems across the entire cerebrovascular network in a highly orchestrated manner. the recently appreciated nvu dysfunction in neurodegenerative diseases  although still poorly understood  supports emerging concepts that maintaining neurovascular health promotes brain health.
4296,human papillomavirus genotype 31 does not express detectable microrna levels during latent or productive virus replication.,it has recently become clear that several pathogenic dna viruses express virally encoded micrornas in infected cells. in particular  numerous micrornas have been identified in a range of human and animal herpesviruses  and individual micrornas have also been identified in members of the polyoma- and adenovirus families. although their functions remain largely unknown  it seems likely that these viral micrornas play an important role in viral replication in vivo. here we present an analysis of the micrornas expressed in human cells during the latent and productive phases of the human papillomavirus genotype 31 (hpv31) replication cycle. although over 500 cellular micrornas were cloned and identified  not a single hpv31-specific microrna was obtained. we therefore concluded that hpv31  and possibly human papillomaviruses in general  does not express viral micrornas.
4298,alteration of the antitumor immune response by cancer-associated fibroblasts,among cells present in the tumor microenvironment  activated fibroblasts termed cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs)  play a critical role in the complex process of tumor-stroma interaction. cafs  one of the prominent stromal cell populations in most types of human carcinomas  have been involved in tumor growth  angiogenesis  cancer stemness  extracellular matrix remodeling  tissue invasion  metastasis  and even chemoresistance. during the past decade  these activated tumor-associated fibroblasts have also been involved in the modulation of the anti-tumor immune response on various levels. in this review  we describe our current understanding of how cafs accomplish this task as well as their potential therapeutic implications.
4300,neoadjuvant androgen ablation before radical prostatectomy in ct2bnxmo prostate cancer: 5-year results.,purpose in the initial report of the lupron depot neoadjuvant prostate cancer study group patients who received 3 months of androgen deprivation had a significant decrease in the positive margin rate. we monitored these patients for 5 years and to our knowledge present the longest followup of any neoadjuvant trial. materials and methods a multi-institutional prospective randomized trial was performed between february 1992 and april 1994 involving patients with stage ct2b prostate cancer  including 138 who received 3 months of leuprolide plus flutamide before radical prostatectomy and 144 who underwent radical prostatectomy only. patients were followed every 6 months with serum prostate specific antigen (psa) testing for 5 years. biochemical recurrence was defined as psa greater than 0.4 ng./ml. results at 5 years there was no difference in the biochemical recurrence rate. psa was less than 0.4 ng./ml. in 64.8% of the patients in the neoadjuvant androgen ablation plus prostatectomy and 67.6% in the prostatectomy only group (p = 0.663). conclusions although 3 months of androgen deprivation before radical prostatectomy resulted in an apparently significant decrease in positive surgical margins  a 5-year followup does not indicate any difference in the recurrence rate. until studies document improvement in biochemical or clinical recurrence with longer periods of treatment  induction androgen deprivation before radical prostatectomy is not indicated.
4302,growth restricted in vitro culture conditions alter the imprinted gene expression patterns of mouse embryonic stem cells.,embryonic stem (es) cell-derived clones and chimeras are often associated with growth abnormalities during fetal development  leading to the production of over/under-weight offspring that show elevated neonatal mortality and morbidity. due to the role played by imprinted genes in controlling fetal growth  much of the blame is pointed at improper epigenetic reprogramming of cells used in the procedures. we have analyzed the expression pattern of two growth regulatory imprinted genes  namely insulin like growth factor ii (igf2) and h19  in mouse es cells cultured under growth restricted conditions and after in vitro aging. culture of cells with serum-depleted media (starvation) and at high cell density (confluence) increased the expression of both imprinted genes and led to aberrant methylation profiles of differentially methylated regions in key regulatory sites of igf2 and h19. these findings confirm that growth constrained cultures of es cells are associated with alterations to methylation of the regulatory domains and the expression patterns of imprinted genes  suggesting a possible role of epigenetic factors in the loss of developmental potential.
4304,the liverpool uveal melanoma liver metastases pathway: outcome following liver resection.,aim to determine the outcome of patients that underwent liver resection for metastases from uveal melanoma. methods over a 9-year period  patients referred with uveal melanoma metastases were included. following treatment of primary uveal melanoma  high-risk patients were offered to be enrolled into a 6-monthly non-contrast liver magnetic resonance imaging (mri) surveillance. following detection of liver metastases  patients were staged with a contrast-enhanced (primovist(®)) liver mri  computer tomography (ct) of the thorax and staging laparoscopy. results 155 patients were referred with uveal melanoma liver metastases  of which 17 (11.0%) patients had liver resection and one patient was treated with percutaneous radio-frequency ablation. the majority of patients undergoing liver resection were treated with multiple metastectomies (n = 8) and three patients had major liver resections. the overall median survival for patients treated with surgery/ablation was 27 (14-90) months  and this was significantly better compared to patients treated palliatively [median = 8(1-30) months  p < 0.001]. following surgery  11 patients had recurrent disease [median = 13(6-36) months]. patients who had undergone a major liver resection had a significantly poorer disease-free survival (p = 0.037). conclusions patients who can undergo surgical resection for metastatic uveal melanoma have a more favorable survival compared to those who do not.
4306,the use of lead citrate at high ph as an electron-opaque stain in electron microscopy,aqueous solutions of lead salts (1  2) and saturated solutions of lead hydroxide (1) have been used as stains to enhance the electron-scattering properties of components of biological materials examined in the electron microscope. saturated solutions of lead hydroxide (1)  while staining more intensely than either lead acetate or monobasic lead acetate (l   2)  form insoluble lead carbonate upon exposure to air. the avoidance of such precipitates which contaminate surfaces of sections during staining has been the stimulus for the development of elaborate procedures for exclusion of air or carbon dioxide (3  4). several modifications of watson's lead hydroxide stain (1) have recently appeared (5-7). all utilize relatively high ph (approximately 12) and one contains small amounts of tartrate (6)  a relatively weak complexing agent (8)  in addition to lead. these modified lead stains are less liable to contaminate the surface of the section with precipitated stain products. the stain reported here differs from previous alkaline lead stains in that the chelating agent  citrate  is in sufficient excess to sequester all lead present. lead citrate  soluble in high concentrations in basic solutions  is a chelate compound with an apparent association constant (log ka) between ligand and lead ion of 6.5 (9). tissue binding sites  presumably organophosphates  and other anionic species present in biological components following fixation  dehydration  and plastic embedding apparently have a greater affinity for this cation than lead citrate inasmuch as cellular and extracellular structures in the section sequester lead from the staining solution. alkaline lead citrate solutions are less likely to contaminate sections  as no precipitates form when droplets of fresh staining solution are exposed to air for periods of up to 30 minutes. the resultant staining of the sections is of high intensity in sections of aralditeor epon-embedded material. cytoplasmic membranes  ribosomes  glycogen  and nuclear material are stained (figs. 1 to 3). stain solution: lead citrate is prepared by
4308,zoledronic acid is unable to induce apoptosis  but slows tumor growth and prolongs survival for non-small-cell lung cancers.,background although zoledronic acid (zol)  a third-generation nitrogen-containing bisphosphonate  has been identified as an attractive therapeutic agent against breast cancer  prostate cancer  multiple myeloma as well as small-cell lung cancer (sclc)  as best as we are aware  the anti-tumor effect of zol upon non-small-cell lung cancer (nsclc) remains to be effectively investigated. this study examined the effects of zol upon the line-1 tumor cell  using a murine lung adenocarcinoma cell line similar to the behavior of human lung adenocarcinoma. methods we investigated the anti-tumor effects of zol (3-100 microm) on line-1 tumor cells in vitro  including cellular proliferation  by means of an mtt assay  cell-cycle analysis by flow cytometry and by assessing the level of apoptosis by annexin v/propidium iodide (pi) and 4'-6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (dapi) staining. further  we evaluated the growth and survival of line-1 tumor cells following zol treatment (1 microg/kg/week) using an animal model. we also examined the in vivo cell-cycle pattern using lacz-expressing line-1 cells (line-1/lacz). results zol significantly slowed the line-1 tumor growth in a dose-dependent manner in vitro. the treated line-1 tumor cells typically arrested at the s/g2/m-phase of the cell-cycle following zol exposure  but no apoptotic cells could be detected by either annexin v/pi or dapi staining. when the zol was washed out  the drug-inhibited cells continued to proliferate again and the cell-cycle prolongation elicited earlier by the drug  then disappeared. within 72-96 h following drug removal  the cell-cycle of the treated cells revealed a similar distribution to that of the untreated controls. in vivo studies demonstrated that zol significantly slowed the line-1 tumor growth. indeed  mice lived significantly longer when they had been zol-treated than was the case for untreated mice (p<0.05). using line-1/lacz cells  the in vivo cell-cycle distribution of line-1 tumor cells subsequent to zol exposure revealed s/g2/m-phase arrest that was identical to the in vitro culture. conclusions zol maintains the potential to reduce tumor burden and prolong survival for murine pulmonary adenocarcinoma. the flow cytometrical analysis of cell-cycle demonstrated that zol induces no apoptosis but is able to arrest line-1 tumor cells at the s/g2/m-phase. although the clinical relevance of these results warrants verification for human lung cancer patients  zol combined with chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy appears to be a new therapeutic strategy for the effective treatment of nsclc.
4310,contribution of traditional healers to a rural tuberculosis control programme in hlabisa  south africa.,setting the rural health district of hlabisa  kwazulu-natal  south africa.   objectives to assess the acceptability and effectiveness of traditional healers as supervisors of tuberculosis (tb) treatment in an existing directly observed treatment  short-course (dots) programme. design an observational study comparing treatment outcomes among new tb patients in the three intervention sub-districts offered the additional option of traditional healers for directly observed treatment (dot) supervision with those in the remainder of the district offered the standard range of options for dot supervision (health facility  community health worker and lay persons). a comparison was also made of treatment outcomes between different options for dot supervision. results a total of 3461 tb patients were registered in hlabisa district from april 1999 to december 2000  of whom 2823 were discharged from hospital to the ambulatory dot programme. treatment outcomes were known for 1816 patients in hlabisa district (275 patients in the intervention area and 1541 patients in the control area). there was no significant difference (p < 0.5) in treatment outcome in the intervention and control areas (77% vs. 75%). among 275 patients with known outcomes in the intervention area  48 patients were supervised by traditional healers and 227 patients supervised by people other than traditional healers. treatment completion was not significantly higher among patients supervised by traditional healers than among patients supervised by other categories of dot supervisor (88% vs. 75%  p = 0.3841). interviews with 41 of 51 traditional healer patients who had completed treatment revealed high levels of satisfaction with the care received. conclusions traditional healers make an effective contribution to tb programme performance in this pilot scheme in hlabisa district. further evaluation will be necessary as this approach is scaled up.
4312,toll-like receptor 7 mediates pruritus,toll-like receptors are typically expressed in immune cells to regulate innate immunity. we found that functional toll-like receptor 7 (tlr7) was expressed in c-fiber primary sensory neurons and was important for inducing itch (pruritus)  but was not necessary for eliciting mechanical  thermal  inflammatory and neuropathic pain in mice. our results indicate that tlr7 mediates itching and is a potential therapeutic target for anti-itch treatment in skin disease conditions.
4314,pdgfrβ+ mural preadipocytes contribute to adipocyte hyperplasia induced by high-fat-diet feeding and prolonged cold exposure in adult mice.,the expansion of white adipose tissue (wat) in obesity involves de novo differentiation of new adipocytes; however  the cellular origin of these cells remains unclear. here  we utilize zfp423(gfp) reporter mice to characterize adipose mural (pdgfrβ(+)) cells with varying levels of the preadipocyte commitment factor zfp423. we find that adipose tissue contains distinct mural populations  with levels of zfp423 distinguishing adipogenic from inflammatory-like mural cells. using our "muralchaser" lineage tracking system  we uncover adipose perivascular cells as developmental precursors of adipocytes formed in obesity  with adipogenesis and precursor abundance regulated in a depot-dependent manner. interestingly  pdgfrβ(+) cells do not significantly contribute to the initial cold-induced recruitment of beige adipocytes in wat; it is only after prolonged cold exposure that these cells differentiate into beige adipocytes. these results provide genetic evidence for a mural cell origin of white adipocytes in obesity and suggest that beige adipogenesis may originate from multiple sources.
4316,threonine as a carbon source for escherichia coli.,threonine can be used aerobically as the sole source of carbon and energy by mutants of escherichia coli k-12. the pathway used involves the conversion of threonine via threonine dehydrogenase to aminoketobutyric acid  which is further metabolized by aminoketobutyric acid ligase  forming acetyl coenzyme a and glycine. a strain devoid of serine transhydroxymethylase uses this pathway and excretes glycine as a waste product. aminoketobutyric acid ligase activity was demonstrated after passage of crude extracts through sephadex g100.
4318,hypoxia‐sensitive commd1 integrates signaling and cellular metabolism in human macrophages and suppresses osteoclastogenesis,summary hypoxia augments inflammatory responses and osteoclastogenesis by incompletely understood mechanisms. we identified commd1 as a cell‐intrinsic negative regulator of osteoclastogenesis that is suppressed by hypoxia. in human macrophages  commd1 restrained induction of nf‐&kgr;b signaling and a transcription factor e2f1‐dependent metabolic pathway by the cytokine rankl. downregulation of commd1 protein expression by hypoxia augmented rankl‐induced expression of inflammatory and e2f1 target genes and downstream osteoclastogenesis. e2f1 targets included glycolysis and metabolic genes including ckb that enabled cells to meet metabolic demands in challenging environments  as well as inflammatory cytokine‐driven target genes. expression quantitative trait locus analysis linked increased commd1 expression with decreased bone erosion in rheumatoid arthritis. myeloid deletion of commd1 resulted in increased osteoclastogenesis in arthritis and inflammatory osteolysis models. these results identify commd1 and an e2f‐metabolic pathway as key regulators of osteoclastogenic responses under pathological inflammatory conditions and provide a mechanism by which hypoxia augments inflammation and bone destruction. graphical abstract figure. no caption available. highlightscommd1 is a negative regulator of osteoclast differentiationcommd1 suppresses bone loss in ra and inflammatory arthritis and osteolysis modelscommd1 negatively regulates e2f1‐dependent metabolic pathways in macrophageshypoxia suppresses commd1 expression to augment osteoclastogenesis &na; pathways that promote osteoclastogenesis are well characterized but less is known about negative regulators that suppress pathological bone loss. murata et al. identify commd1 as an inhibitor of osteoclastogenesis that restrains nf‐&kgr;b‐ and e2f1‐ckb‐mediated metabolic pathways in macrophages.
4320,regulated nucleo/cytoplasmic exchange of hog1 mapk requires the importin beta homologs nmd5 and xpo1.,map kinase signaling modules serve to transduce extracellular signals to the nucleus of eukaryotic cells  but little is known about how signals cross the nuclear envelope. exposure of yeast cells to increases in extracellular osmolarity activates the hog1 map kinase cascade  which is composed of three tiers of protein kinases  namely the ssk2  ssk22 and ste11 mapkkks  the pbs2 mapkk  and the hog1 mapk. using green fluorescent protein (gfp) fusions of these kinases  we found that hog1  pbs2 and ste11 localize to the cytoplasm of unstressed cells. following osmotic stress  hog1  but neither pbs2 nor ste11  translocates into the nucleus. hog1 translocation occurs very rapidly  is transient  and correlates with the phosphorylation and activation of the map kinase by its mapkk. hog1 phosphorylation is necessary and sufficient for nuclear translocation  because a catalytically inactive kinase when phosphorylated is translocated to the nucleus as efficiently as the wild-type. nuclear import of the mapk under stress conditions requires the activity of the small gtp binding protein ran-gsp1  but not the nls-binding importin alpha/beta heterodimer. rather  hog1 import requires the activity of a gene  nmd5  that encodes a novel importin beta homolog. similarly  export of dephosphorylated hog1 from the nucleus requires the activity of the nes receptor xpo1/crm1. our findings define the requirements for the regulated nuclear transport of a stress-activated map kinase.
4322,role of rhoa-specific guanine exchange factors in regulation of endomitosis in megakaryocytes.,polyploidization can precede the development of aneuploidy in cancer. polyploidization in megakaryocytes (mks)  in contrast  is a highly controlled developmental process critical for efficient platelet production via unknown mechanisms. using primary cells  we demonstrate that the guanine exchange factors gef-h1 and ect2  which are often overexpressed in cancer and are essential for rhoa activation during cytokinesis  must be downregulated for mk polyploidization. the first (2n-4n) endomitotic cycle requires gef-h1 downregulation  whereas subsequent cycles (>4n) require ect2 downregulation. exogenous expression of both gef-h1 and ect2 prevents endomitosis  resulting in proliferation of 2n mks. furthermore  we have shown that the mechanism by which polyploidization is prevented in mks lacking mkl1  which is mutated in megakaryocytic leukemia  is via elevated gef-h1 expression; shrna-mediated gef-h1 knockdown alone rescues this ploidy defect. these mechanistic insights enhance our understanding of normal versus malignant megakaryocytopoiesis  as well as aberrant mitosis in aneuploid cancers.
4324,early gastric cancer and dysplasia.,since the concept of early gastric cancer was first described in japan in 1962  its treatment has evolved from curative surgical resection to endoscopic resection  initially with polypectomy to more recently with endoscopic submucosal dissection. as worldwide experience with these endoscopic techniques evolve and gain acceptance  studies have confirmed its comparable effectiveness with historical surgical outcomes in carefully selected patients. the criteria for endoscopic resection have expanded to offer more patients improved quality of life  avoiding the morbidity and mortality associated with surgery. this article summarizes the evolutional role of endoscopic and surgical therapy in early gastric cancer.
4326,strategies of microbial cheater control.,the potential benefits of cooperation in microorganisms can be undermined by genetic conflict within social groups  which can take the form of 'cheating'. for cooperation to succeed as an evolutionary strategy  the negative effects of such conflict must somehow be either prevented or mitigated. to generate an interpretive framework for future research in microbial behavioural ecology  here we outline a wide range of hypothetical mechanisms by which cheaters might be constrained.
4328,changes in the prevalence of cerebral palsy for children born very prematurely within a population-based program over 30 years.,context although cerebral palsy (cp) among extremely premature infants has been reported as a major morbidity outcome  there are difficulties comparing published cp rates from many sites over various birth years. objective to assess the changes in population-based  gestational age-specific prevalence rates of cp among extremely premature infants over 30 years. design prospective population-based longitudinal outcome study. setting and participants in northern alberta  2318 infants 20 to 27 weeks' gestational age with birth weights of 500 to 1249 g were liveborn from 1974 through 2003. by 2 years of age  1437 (62%) had died  23 (1%) were lost to follow-up  and 858 (37%) had received multidisciplinary neurodevelopmental assessment. main outcome measure population-based prevalence rates of cp were determined. logistic regression with linear spline was used to assess changes in cp prevalence over time. results at age 2 years  122 (14.2%) of 858 survivors had cp. this diagnosis was confirmed for each child by age 3 years or older. among those whose gestational age was 20 to 25 weeks  population-based survival increased from 4% to 31% (p<.001)  while cp prevalence per 1000 live births increased monotonically from 0 to 110 until the years 1992-1994 (p<.001) and decreased thereafter to 22 in the years 2001-2003 (p<.001). among those whose gestational age was 26 to 27 weeks  population-based survival increased from 23% to between 75% and 80% (p<.001)  while cp prevalence per 1000 live births increased monotonically from 15 to 155 until the years 1992-1994 (p<.001) and then decreased to 16 in the years 2001-2003 (p<.001). for all survivors born in the years 2001-2003  cp prevalence was 19 per 1000 live births. conclusion population-based cp prevalence rates for children whose gestational age was 20 to 27 weeks and whose birth weight ranged from 500 to 1249 g show steady reductions in the last decade with stable or reducing mortality  reversing trends prior to 1992-1994.
4330,mutations in g protein beta subunits promote transformation and kinase inhibitor resistance,activating mutations in genes encoding g protein α (gα) subunits occur in 4-5% of all human cancers  but oncogenic alterations in gβ subunits have not been defined. here we demonstrate that recurrent mutations in the gβ proteins gnb1 and gnb2 confer cytokine-independent growth and activate canonical g protein signaling. multiple mutations in gnb1 affect the protein interface that binds gα subunits as well as downstream effectors and disrupt gα interactions with the gβγ dimer. different mutations in gβ proteins clustered partly on the basis of lineage; for example  all 11 gnb1 k57 mutations were in myeloid neoplasms  and seven of eight gnb1 i80 mutations were in b cell neoplasms. expression of patient-derived gnb1 variants in cdkn2a-deficient mouse bone marrow followed by transplantation resulted in either myeloid or b cell malignancies. in vivo treatment with the dual pi3k-mtor inhibitor bez235 suppressed gnb1-induced signaling and markedly increased survival. in several human tumors  mutations in the gene encoding gnb1 co-occurred with oncogenic kinase alterations  including the bcr-abl fusion protein  the v617f substitution in jak2 and the v600k substitution in braf. coexpression of patient-derived gnb1 variants with these mutant kinases resulted in inhibitor resistance in each context. thus  gnb1 and gnb2 alterations confer transformed and resistance phenotypes across a range of human tumors and may be targetable with inhibitors of g protein signaling.
4332,re-engineered cd40 receptor enables potent pharmacological activation of dendritic-cell cancer vaccines in vivo,modest clinical outcomes of dendritic-cell (dc) vaccine trials call for the refinement of dc vaccine design. although many potential antigens have been identified  development of methods to enhance antigen presentation by dcs has lagged. we have engineered a potent  drug-inducible cd40 (icd40) receptor that permits temporally controlled  lymphoid-localized  dc-specific activation. icd40 is comprised of a membrane-localized cytoplasmic domain of cd40 fused to drug-binding domains. this allows it to respond to a lipid-permeable  high-affinity dimerizer drug while circumventing ectodomain-dependent negative-feedback mechanisms. these modifications permit prolonged activation of icd40-expressing dcs in vivo  resulting in more potent cd8+ t-cell effector responses  including the eradication of previously established solid tumors  relative to activation of dcs ex vivo (p < 0.01)  typical of most clinical dc protocols. in addition  icd40-mediated dc activation exceeded that achieved by stimulating the full-length  endogenous cd40 receptor both in vitro and in vivo. because icd40 is insulated from the extracellular environment and can be activated within the context of an immunological synapse  icd40-expressing dcs have a prolonged lifespan and should lead to more potent vaccines  perhaps even in immune-compromised patients.
4334,treated individuals who progress to action or maintenance for one behavior are more likely to make similar progress on another behavior: coaction results of a pooled data analysis of three trials.,objective this study compared  in treatment and control groups  the phenomena of coaction  which is the probability that taking effective action on one behavior is related to taking effective action on a second behavior. methods pooled data from three randomized trials of transtheoretical model (ttm) tailored interventions (n=9461)  completed in the u.s. in 1999  were analyzed to assess coaction in three behavior pairs (diet and sun protection  diet and smoking  and sun protection and smoking). odds ratios (ors) compared the likelihood of taking action on a second behavior compared to taking action on only one behavior. results across behavior pairs  at 12 and 24 months  the ors for the treatment group were greater on an absolute basis than for the control group  with two being significant. the combined ors at 12 and 24 months  respectively  were 1.63 and 1.85 for treatment and 1.20 and 1.10 for control. conclusions the results of this study with addictive  energy balance and appearance-related behaviors were consistent with results found in three studies applying ttm tailoring to energy balance behaviors. across studies  there was more coaction within the treatment group. future research should identify predictors of coaction in more multiple behavior change interventions.
4336,full activation of the t cell receptor requires both clustering and conformational changes at cd3.,t cell receptor (tcr-cd3) triggering involves both receptor clustering and conformational changes at the cytoplasmic tails of the cd3 subunits. the mechanism by which tcralphabeta ligand binding confers conformational changes to cd3 is unknown. by using well-defined ligands  we showed that induction of the conformational change requires both multivalent engagement and the mobility restriction of the tcr-cd3 imposed by the plasma membrane. the conformational change is elicited by cooperative rearrangements of two tcr-cd3 complexes and does not require accompanying changes in the structure of the tcralphabeta ectodomains. this conformational change at cd3 reverts upon ligand dissociation and is required for t cell activation. thus  our permissive geometry model provides a molecular mechanism that rationalizes how the information of ligand binding to tcralphabeta is transmitted to the cd3 subunits and to the intracellular signaling machinery.
4338,sex-based differences in the effect of digoxin for the treatment of heart failure.,background the digitalis investigation group trial reported that treatment with digoxin did not decrease overall mortality among patients with heart failure and depressed left ventricular systolic function  although it did reduce hospitalizations slightly. even though the epidemiologic features  causes  and prognosis of heart failure vary between men and women  sex-based differences in the effect of digoxin were not evaluated. methods we conducted a post hoc subgroup analysis to assess whether there were sex-based differences in the effect of digoxin therapy among the 6800 patients in the digitalis investigation group study. the presence of an interaction between sex and digoxin therapy with respect to the primary end point of death from any cause was evaluated with the use of mantel-haenszel tests of heterogeneity and a multivariable cox proportional-hazards model  adjusted for demographic and clinical variables. results there was an absolute difference of 5.8 percent (95 percent confidence interval  0.5 to 11.1) between men and women in the effect of digoxin on the rate of death from any cause (p=0.034 for the interaction). specifically  women who were randomly assigned to digoxin had a higher rate of death than women who were randomly assigned to placebo (33.1 percent vs. 28.9 percent; absolute difference  4.2 percent  95 percent confidence interval  -0.5 to 8.8). in contrast  the rate of death was similar among men randomly assigned to digoxin and men randomly assigned to placebo (35.2 percent vs. 36.9 percent; absolute difference  -1.6 percent; 95 percent confidence interval  -4.2 to 1.0). in the multivariable analysis  digoxin was associated with a significantly higher risk of death among women (adjusted hazard ratio for the comparison with placebo  1.23; 95 percent confidence interval  1.02 to 1.47)  but it had no significant effect among men (adjusted hazard ratio  0.93; 95 percent confidence interval  0.85 to 1.02; p=0.014 for the interaction). conclusions the effect of digoxin therapy differs between men and women. digoxin therapy is associated with an increased risk of death from any cause among women  but not men  with heart failure and depressed left ventricular systolic function.
4340,expression of the gene encoding the chemorepellent semaphorin iii is induced in the fibroblast component of neural scar tissue formed following injuries of adult but not neonatal cns.,this study evaluates the expression of the chemorepellent semaphorin iii (d)/collapsin-1 (sema iii) following lesions to the rat cns. scar tissue  formed after penetrating injuries to the lateral olfactory tract (lot)  cortex  perforant pathway  and spinal cord  contained numerous spindle-shaped cells expressing high levels of sema iii mrna. the properties of these cells were investigated in detail in the lesioned lot. most sema iii mrna-positive cells were located in the core of the scar and expressed proteins characteristic for fibroblast-like cells. neuropilin-1  a sema iii receptor  was expressed in injured neurons with projections to the lesion site  in a subpopulation of scar-associated cells and in blood vessels around the scar. in contrast to lesions made in the mature cns  lot transection in neonates did not induce sema iii mrna expression within cells in the lesion and was followed by vigorous axonal regeneration. the concomitant expression of sema iii and its receptor neuropilin-1 in the scar suggests that sema iii/neuropilin-1-mediated mechanisms are involved in cns scar formation. the expression of the secreted chemorepellent sema iii following cns injury provides the first evidence that chemorepulsive semaphorins may contribute to the inhibitory effects exerted by scars on the outgrowth of injured cns neurites. the vigorous regrowth of injured axons in the absence of sema iii following early neonatal lesions is consistent with this notion. the inactivation of sema iii in scar tissue by either antibody perturbation or by genetic or pharmacological intervention could be a powerful means to promote long-distance regeneration in the adult cns.
4342,intact endothelial autophagy is required to maintain vascular lipid homeostasis.,the physiological role of autophagic flux within the vascular endothelial layer remains poorly understood. here  we show that in primary endothelial cells  oxidized and native ldl stimulates autophagosome formation. moreover  by both confocal and electron microscopy  excess native or modified ldl appears to be engulfed within autophagic structures. transient knockdown of the essential autophagy gene atg7 resulted in higher levels of intracellular (125) i-ldl and oxidized ldl (oxldl) accumulation  suggesting that in endothelial cells  autophagy may represent an important mechanism to regulate excess  exogenous lipids. the physiological importance of these observations was assessed using mice containing a conditional deletion of atg7 within the endothelium. following acute intravenous infusion of fluorescently labeled oxldl  mice lacking endothelial expression of atg7 demonstrated prolonged retention of oxldl within the retinal pigment epithelium (rpe) and choroidal endothelium of the eye. in a chronic model of lipid excess  we analyzed atherosclerotic burden in apoe(-/-) mice with or without endothelial autophagic flux. the absence of endothelial autophagy markedly increased atherosclerotic burden. thus  in both an acute and chronic in vivo model  endothelial autophagy appears critically important in limiting lipid accumulation within the vessel wall. as such  strategies that stimulate autophagy  or prevent the age-dependent decline in autophagic flux  might be particularly beneficial in treating atherosclerotic vascular disease.
4344,bcl9 promotes tumor progression by conferring enhanced proliferative  metastatic  and angiogenic properties to cancer cells.,several components of the wnt signaling cascade have been shown to function either as tumor suppressor proteins or as oncogenes in multiple human cancers  underscoring the relevance of this pathway in oncogenesis and the need for further investigation of wnt signaling components as potential targets for cancer therapy. here  using expression profiling analysis as well as in vitro and in vivo functional studies  we show that the wnt pathway component bcl9 is a novel oncogene that is aberrantly expressed in human multiple myeloma as well as colon carcinoma. we show that bcl9 enhances beta-catenin-mediated transcriptional activity regardless of the mutational status of the wnt signaling components and increases cell proliferation  migration  invasion  and the metastatic potential of tumor cells by promoting loss of epithelial and gain of mesenchymal-like phenotype. most importantly  bcl9 knockdown significantly increased the survival of xenograft mouse models of cancer by reducing tumor load  metastasis  and host angiogenesis through down-regulation of c-myc  cyclin d1  cd44  and vascular endothelial growth factor expression by tumor cells. together  these findings suggest that deregulation of bcl9 is an important contributing factor to tumor progression. the pleiotropic roles of bcl9 reported in this study underscore its value as a drug target for therapeutic intervention in several malignancies associated with aberrant wnt signaling.
4346,loss of gametophytic self-incompatibility with evolution of inbreeding depression.,gametophytic self-incompatibility (si) in plants is a widespread mechanism preventing self-fertilization and the ensuing inbreeding depression  but it often evolves to self-compatibility. we analyze genetic mechanisms for the breakdown of gametophytic si  incorporating a dynamic model for the evolution of inbreeding depression allowing for partial purging of nearly recessive lethal mutations by selfing  and accounting for pollen limitation and sheltered load linked to the s-locus. we consider two mechanisms for the breakdown of gametophytic si: a nonfunctional s-allele and an unlinked modifier locus that inactivates the s-locus. we show that  under a wide range of conditions  self-compatible alleles can invade a self-incompatible population. conditions for invasion are always less stringent for a nonfunctional s-allele than for a modifier locus. the spread of self-compatible genotypes is favored by extremely high or low selfing rates  a small number of s-alleles  and pollen limitation. observed parameter values suggest that the maintenance of gametophytic si is caused by a combination of high inbreeding depression in self-incompatible populations coupled with intermediate selfing rates of the self-compatible genotypes and sheltered load linked to the s-locus.
4348,transmission of atherosclerosis susceptibility with gut microbial transplantation.,recent studies indicate both clinical and mechanistic links between atherosclerotic heart disease and intestinal microbial metabolism of certain dietary nutrients producing trimethylamine n-oxide (tmao). here we test the hypothesis that gut microbial transplantation can transmit choline diet-induced tmao production and atherosclerosis susceptibility. first  a strong association was noted between atherosclerotic plaque and plasma tmao levels in a mouse diversity panel (n = 22 strains  r = 0.38; p = 0.0001). an atherosclerosis-prone and high tmao-producing strain  c57bl/6j  and an atherosclerosis-resistant and low tmao-producing strain  nzw/lacj  were selected as donors for cecal microbial transplantation into apolipoprotein e null mice in which resident intestinal microbes were first suppressed with antibiotics. trimethylamine (tma) and tmao levels were initially higher in recipients on choline diet that received cecal microbes from c57bl/6j inbred mice; however  durability of choline diet-dependent differences in tma/tmao levels was not maintained to the end of the study. mice receiving c57bl/6j cecal microbes demonstrated choline diet-dependent enhancement in atherosclerotic plaque burden as compared with recipients of nzw/lacj microbes. microbial dna analyses in feces and cecum revealed transplantation of donor microbial community features into recipients with differences in taxa proportions between donor strains that were transmissible to recipients and that tended to show coincident proportions with tmao levels. proportions of specific taxa were also identified that correlated with plasma tmao levels in donors and recipients and with atherosclerotic lesion area in recipients. atherosclerosis susceptibility may be transmitted via transplantation of gut microbiota. gut microbes may thus represent a novel therapeutic target for modulating atherosclerosis susceptibility.
4350,what influences government adoption of vaccines in developing countries? a policy process analysis.,this paper proposes a framework for examining the process by which government consideration and adoption of new vaccines takes place  with specific reference to developing country settings. the cases of early hepatitis b vaccine adoption in taiwan and thailand are used to explore the relevance of explanatory factors identified in the literature as well as the need to go beyond a variable-centric focus by highlighting the role of policy context and process in determining the pace and extent of adoption. the cases suggest the feasibility and importance of modeling 'causal diversity'-the complex set of necessary and sufficient conditions leading to particular decisional outcomes-in a broad range of country contexts. a better understanding of the lenses through which government decision-makers filter information  and of the arenas in which critical decisions are shaped and taken  may assist both analysts (in predicting institutionalization of new vaccines) and advocates (in crafting targeted strategies to accelerate their diffusion).
4352,effect of women's nutrition before and during early pregnancy on maternal and infant outcomes: a systematic review.,current understanding of biologic processes indicates that women's nutritional status before and during early pregnancy may play an important role in determining early developmental processes and ensuring successful pregnancy outcomes. we conducted a systematic review of the evidence for the impact of maternal nutrition before and during early pregnancy (<12 weeks gestation) on maternal  neonatal and child health outcomes and included 45 articles (nine intervention trials and 32 observational studies) that were identified through pubmed and embase database searches and examining review articles. intervention trials and observational studies show that periconceptional (<12 weeks gestation) folic acid supplementation significantly reduced the risk of neural tube defects. observational studies suggest that preconceptional and periconceptional intake of vitamin and mineral supplements is associated with a reduced risk of delivering offspring who are low birthweight and/or small-for-gestational age (sga) and preterm deliveries (ptd). some studies report that indicators of maternal prepregnancy size  low stature  underweight and overweight are associated with increased risks of ptd and sga. the available data indicate the importance of women's nutrition prior to and during the first trimester of pregnancy  but there is a need for well-designed prospective studies and controlled trials in developing country settings that examine relationships with low birthweight  sga  ptd  stillbirth and maternal and neonatal mortality. the knowledge gaps that need to be addressed include the evaluation of periconceptional interventions such as food supplements  multivitamin-mineral supplements and/or specific micronutrients (iron  zinc  iodine  vitamin b-6 and b-12) as well as the relationship between measures of prepregnancy body size and composition and maternal  neonatal and child health outcomes.
4354,ablation of nf1 function in neurons induces abnormal development of cerebral cortex and reactive gliosis in the brain.,neurofibromatosis type 1 (nf1) is a prevalent genetic disorder that affects growth properties of neural-crest-derived cell populations. in addition  approximately one-half of nf1 patients exhibit learning disabilities. to characterize nf1 function both in vitro and in vivo  we circumvent the embryonic lethality of nf1 null mouse embryos by generating a conditional mutation in the nf1 gene using cre/loxp technology. introduction of a synapsin i promoter driven cre transgenic mouse strain into the conditional nf1 background has ablated nf1 function in most differentiated neuronal populations. these mice have abnormal development of the cerebral cortex  which suggests that nf1 has an indispensable role in this aspect of cns development. furthermore  although they are tumor free  these mice display extensive astrogliosis in the absence of conspicuous neurodegeneration or microgliosis. these results indicate that nf1-deficient neurons are capable of inducing reactive astrogliosis via a non-cell autonomous mechanism.
4356,secondary aerosolization of viable bacillus anthracis spores in a contaminated us senate office.,context bioterrorist attacks involving letters and mail-handling systems in washington  dc  resulted in bacillus anthracis (anthrax) spore contamination in the hart senate office building and other facilities in the us capitol's vicinity. objective to provide information about the nature and extent of indoor secondary aerosolization of b anthracis spores. design stationary and personal air samples  surface dust  and swab samples were collected under semiquiescent (minimal activities) and then simulated active office conditions to estimate secondary aerosolization of b anthracis spores. nominal size characteristics  airborne concentrations  and surface contamination of b anthracis particles (colony-forming units) were evaluated. results viable b anthracis spores reaerosolized under semiquiescent conditions  with a marked increase in reaerosolization during simulated active office conditions. increases were observed for b anthracis collected on open sheep blood agar plates (p<.001) and personal air monitors (p =.01) during active office conditions. more than 80% of the b anthracis particles collected on stationary monitors were within an alveolar respirable size range of 0.95 to 3.5 micro m.   conclusions bacillus anthracis spores used in a recent terrorist incident reaerosolized under common office activities. these findings have important implications for appropriate respiratory protection  remediation  and reoccupancy of contaminated office environments.
4358,induced regeneration—the progress and promise of direct reprogramming for heart repair,regeneration of cardiac tissue has the potential to transform cardiovascular medicine. recent advances in stem cell biology and direct reprogramming  or transdifferentiation  have produced powerful new tools to advance this goal. in this review we examine key developments in the generation of new cardiomyocytes in vitro as well as the exciting progress that has been made toward in vivo reprogramming of cardiac tissue. we also address controversies and hurdles that challenge the field.
4360,mutant dynactin in motor neuron disease,impaired axonal transport in motor neurons has been proposed as a mechanism for neuronal degeneration in motor neuron disease. here we show linkage of a lower motor neuron disease to a region of 4 mb at chromosome 2p13. mutation analysis of a gene in this interval that encodes the largest subunit of the axonal transport protein dynactin showed a single base-pair change resulting in an amino-acid substitution that is predicted to distort the folding of dynactin's microtubule-binding domain. binding assays show decreased binding of the mutant protein to microtubules. our results show that dysfunction of dynactin-mediated transport can lead to human motor neuron disease.
4362,pathologic indicators of degradation and inflammation in human osteoarthritic cartilage are abrogated by exposure to n-3 fatty acids.,objective to determine if n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid (pufa) supplementation (versus treatment with n-6 polyunsaturated or other fatty acid supplements) affects the metabolism of osteoarthritic (oa) cartilage. methods the metabolic profile of human oa cartilage was determined at the time of harvest and after 24-hour exposure to n-3 pufas or other classes of fatty acids  followed by explant culture for 4 days in the presence or absence of interleukin-1 (il-1). parameters measured were glycosaminoglycan release  aggrecanase and matrix metalloproteinase (mmp) activity  and the levels of expression of messenger rna (mrna) for mediators of inflammation  aggrecanases  mmps  and their natural tissue inhibitors (tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases [timps]). results supplementation with n-3 pufa (but not other fatty acids) reduced  in a dose-dependent manner  the endogenous and il-1-induced release of proteoglycan metabolites from articular cartilage explants and specifically abolished endogenous aggrecanase and collagenase proteolytic activity. similarly  expression of mrna for adamts-4  mmp-13  and mmp-3 (but not timp-1  -2  or -3) was also specifically abolished with n-3 pufa supplementation. in addition  n-3 pufa supplementation abolished the expression of mrna for mediators of inflammation (cyclooxygenase 2  5-lipoxygenase  5-lipoxygenase-activating protein  tumor necrosis factor alpha  il-1alpha  and il-1beta) without affecting the expression of message for several other proteins involved in normal tissue homeostasis. conclusion these studies show that the pathologic indicators manifested in human oa cartilage can be significantly altered by exposure of the cartilage to n-3 pufa  but not to other classes of fatty acids.
4364,rkikk motif in the intracellular domain is critical for spatial and dynamic organization of icam-1: functional implication for the leukocyte adhesion and transmigration.,no direct evidence has been reported whether the spatial organization of icam-1 on the cell surface is linked to its physiological function in terms of leukocyte adhesion and transendothelial migration (tem). here we observed that icam-1 by itself directly regulates the de novo elongation of microvilli and is thereby clustered on the microvilli. however  truncation of the intracellular domain resulted in uniform cell surface distribution of icam-1. mutation analysis revealed that the c-terminal 21 amino acids are dispensable  whereas a segment of 5 amino acids ((507)rkikk(511)) in the nh-terminal third of intracellular domain  is required for the proper localization and dynamic distribution of icam-1 and the association of icam-1 with f-actin  ezrin  and moesin. importantly  deletion of the (507)rkikk(511) significantly delayed the lfa-1-dependent membrane projection and decreased leukocyte adhesion and subsequent tem. endothelial cells treated with cell-permeant penetratin-icam-1 peptides comprising icam-1 rkikk sequences inhibited leukocyte tem. collectively  these findings demonstrate that (507)rkikk(511) is an essential motif for the microvillus icam-1 presentation and further suggest a novel regulatory role for icam-1 topography in leukocyte tem.
4366,rapid method for the isolation of lipoproteins from human serum by precipitation with polyanions.,procedures are described for the isolation of lipoproteins from human serum by precipitation with polyanions and divalent cations. a mixture of low and very low density lipoproteins can be prepared without ultracentrifugation by precipitation with heparin and either mncl(2) alone or mgcl(2) plus sucrose. in both cases the precipitation is reversible  selective  and complete. the highly concentrated isolated lipoproteins are free of other plasma proteins as judged by immunological and electrophoretic methods. the low density and very low density lipoproteins can then be separated from each other by ultracentrifugation. the advantage of the method is that large amounts of lipoproteins can be prepared with only a single preparative ultracentrifugation. polyanions other than heparin may also be used; when the precipitation of the low and very low density lipoproteins is achieved with dextran sulfate and mncl(2)  or sodium phosphotungstate and mgcl(2)  the high density lipoproteins can subsequently be precipitated by increasing the concentrations of the reagents. these lipoproteins  containing small amounts of protein contaminants  are further purified by ultracentrifugation at d 1.22. with a single preparative ultracentrifugation  immunologically pure high density lipoproteins can be isolated from large volumes of serum.
4368,layered hydrogels accelerate ipsc-derived neuronal maturation and reveal migration defects caused by mecp2 dysfunction.,probing a wide range of cellular phenotypes in neurodevelopmental disorders using patient-derived neural progenitor cells (npcs) can be facilitated by 3d assays  as 2d systems cannot entirely recapitulate the arrangement of cells in the brain. here  we developed a previously unidentified 3d migration and differentiation assay in layered hydrogels to examine how these processes are affected in neurodevelopmental disorders  such as rett syndrome. our soft 3d system mimics the brain environment and accelerates maturation of neurons from human induced pluripotent stem cell (ipsc)-derived npcs  yielding electrophysiologically active neurons within just 3 wk. using this platform  we revealed a genotype-specific effect of methyl-cpg-binding protein-2 (mecp2) dysfunction on ipsc-derived neuronal migration and maturation (reduced neurite outgrowth and fewer synapses) in 3d layered hydrogels. thus  this 3d system expands the range of neural phenotypes that can be studied in vitro to include those influenced by physical and mechanical stimuli or requiring specific arrangements of multiple cell types.
4370,on the origins of ultra-fine anaphase bridges.,comment on: chan kl  palmai-pallag t  ying s  hickson id. replication stress induces sister-chromatid bridging at fragile site loci in mitosis. nat cell biol 2009; 11:753-60.
4372,transcriptome analysis reveals human cytomegalovirus reprograms monocyte differentiation toward an m1 macrophage.,monocytes are primary targets for human cmv (hcmv) infection and are proposed to be responsible for hematogenous dissemination of the virus. monocytes acquire different functional traits during polarization to the classical proinflammatory m1 macrophage or the alternative antiinflammatory m2 macrophage. we hypothesized that hcmv induced a proinflammatory m1 macrophage following infection to promote viral dissemination because  biologically  a proinflammatory state provides the tools to drive infected monocytes from the blood into the tissue. to test this hypothesis of monocyte conversion from a normal quiescent phenotype to an inflammatory phenotype  we used affymetrix microarray to acquire a transcriptional profile of infected monocytes at a time point our data emphasized is a key temporal regulatory point following infection. we found that hcmv significantly up-regulated 583 (5.2%) of the total genes and down-regulated 621 (5.5%) of the total genes>or=1.5-fold at 4 h postinfection. further ontology analysis revealed that genes implicated in classical m1 macrophage activation were stimulated by hcmv infection. we found that 65% of genes strictly associated with m1 polarization were up-regulated  while only 4% of genes solely associated with m2 polarization were up-regulated. analysis of the monocyte chemokinome at the transcriptional level showed that 44% of m1 and 33% of m2 macrophage chemokines were up-regulated. proteomic analysis using chemokine ab arrays confirmed the secretion of these chemotactic proteins from hcmv-infected monocytes. overall  the results identify that the hcmv-infected monocyte transcriptome displayed a unique m1/m2 polarization signature that was skewed toward the classical m1 activation phenotype.
4374,the nucleosome family: dynamic and growing.,ever since the discovery of the nucleosome in 1974  scientists have stumbled upon discrete particles in which dna is wrapped around histone complexes of different stoichiometries: octasomes  hexasomes  tetrasomes  "split" half-nucleosomes  and  recently  bona fide hemisomes. do all these particles exist in vivo? under what conditions? what is their physiological significance in the complex dna transactions in the eukaryotic nucleus? what are their dynamics? this review summarizes research spanning more than three decades and provides a new meaning to the term "nucleosome. " the nucleosome can no longer be viewed as a single static entity: rather  it is a family of particles differing in their structural and dynamic properties  leading to different functionalities.
4376,crosstalk between the estrogen receptor and the her tyrosine kinase receptor family: molecular mechanism and clinical implications for endocrine therapy resistance.,breast cancer evolution and tumor progression are governed by the complex interactions between steroid receptor [estrogen receptor (er) and progesterone receptor] and growth factor receptor signaling. in recent years  the field of cancer therapy has witnessed the emergence of multiple strategies targeting these specific cancer pathways and key molecules (er and growth factor receptors) to arrest tumor growth and achieve tumor eradication; treatment success  however  has varied and both de novo (up front) and acquired resistance have proven a challenge. recent studies of er biology have revealed new insights into er action in breast cancer and have highlighted the role of an intimate crosstalk between the er and her family signaling pathways as a fundamental contributor to the development of resistance to endocrine therapies against the er pathway. the aim of this review article is to summarize the current knowledge on mechanisms of resistance of breast cancer cells to endocrine therapies due to the crosstalk between the er and the her growth factor receptor signaling pathways and to explore new available therapeutic strategies that could prolong duration of response and circumvent endocrine resistant tumor growth.
4378,serosurvey for feline leukemia virus and lentiviruses in captive small neotropic felids in são paulo state  brazil,abstract feline leukemia virus (felv)  gammaretrovirus  and feline immunodeficiency virus  a lentivirus  are members of the family retroviridae  and may establish persistent infections in the domestic cat (felis catus). cytoproliferative and cytosuppressive disorders may result from infection with these viruses. morbidity and mortality rates are high in domestic cats worldwide. infection of endangered neotropic small felids with these viruses could be devastating. to investigate the prevalence of felv and feline lentiviruses in neotropic small felids kept in captivity in são paulo state  brazil  serum samples from 104 animals belonging to the species leopardus pardalis  leopardus tigrinus  leopardus wiedii  herpailurus yaguarondi  and oncifelis geoffroyi were tested for felv and feline lentiviruses by commercially available immunoassays. all results were negative  suggesting that retrovirus infection is not an important clinical problem in these populations. because domestic cats in são paulo city are naturally infected with these pathogens  and feral cats are commonly found in zoologic facilities in brazil  preventive measures should be taken to avoid transmission of retroviruses to naive populations of wild and captive neotropic felids in brazil.
4380,cytokinesis failure generating tetraploids promotes tumorigenesis in p53-null cells,a long-standing hypothesis on tumorigenesis is that cell division failure  generating genetically unstable tetraploid cells  facilitates the development of aneuploid malignancies. here we test this idea by transiently blocking cytokinesis in p53-null (p53-/-) mouse mammary epithelial cells (mmecs)  enabling the isolation of diploid and tetraploid cultures. the tetraploid cells had an increase in the frequency of whole-chromosome mis-segregation and chromosomal rearrangements. only the tetraploid cells were transformed in vitro after exposure to a carcinogen. furthermore  in the absence of carcinogen  only the tetraploid cells gave rise to malignant mammary epithelial cancers when transplanted subcutaneously into nude mice. these tumours all contained numerous non-reciprocal translocations and an 8–30-fold amplification of a chromosomal region containing a cluster of matrix metalloproteinase (mmp) genes. mmp overexpression is linked to mammary tumours in humans and animal models. thus  tetraploidy enhances the frequency of chromosomal alterations and promotes tumour development in p53-/- mmecs.
4382,cold-related respiratory symptoms in the general population.,introduction cold-related respiratory symptoms are common among northern populations  especially among people suffering from respiratory diseases. however  the prevalence of such symptoms in the general population and the threshold temperatures at which the symptoms start to emerge are poorly known. objectives the present study determined the prevalence and threshold temperatures of self-reported respiratory symptoms related to cold  separately for healthy people and those with respiratory disease. materials and methods six thousand five hundred ninety-one men and women aged 25 years-74 years from the national finrisk study were queried about cold-related respiratory symptoms. the results were expressed as age-adjusted prevalence figures and coefficients from multivariate regressions. results cold-related respiratory symptoms were more often reported by people with asthma (men 69%/women 78%) and by subjects with chronic bronchitis (65%/76%) than the healthy subjects (18%/21%). a binomial regression showed an increase of symptom prevalence by age and excesses of 4%  50% and 21% units because of female sex  asthma and chronic bronchitis  respectively. the reported threshold temperature for cold-related symptoms was -14 degrees c for males and -15 degrees c for females  and it showed some increase by age (0 degrees c-5 degrees c)  asthma (2 degrees c) and chronic bronchitis (3 degrees c). the threshold temperature for mucus production was exceptional as it decreased by age (2 degrees c-5 degrees c) and asthma (2 degrees c). the effects of smoking and education were marginal. conclusion cold-related respiratory symptoms are common in patients with chronic respiratory diseases  but they start to emerge at relatively low temperatures. in a cold climate  the cold-related symptoms may have an impact on the health-related quality of life.
4384,the circadian clock gene bmal1 is a novel therapeutic target for malignant pleural mesothelioma.,malignant pleural mesothelioma (mpm) is a highly aggressive neoplasm arising from the mesothelial cells lining the parietal pleura and it exhibits poor prognosis. although there has been significant progress in mpm treatment  development of more efficient therapeutic approaches is needed. bmal1 is a core component of the circadian clock machinery and its constitutive overexpression in mpm has been reported. here  we demonstrate that bmal1 may serve as a molecular target for mpm. the majority of mpm cell lines and a subset of mpm clinical specimens expressed higher levels of bmal1 compared to a nontumorigenic mesothelial cell line (met-5a) and normal parietal pleural specimens  respectively. a serum shock induced a rhythmical bmal1 expression change in met-5a but not in acc-meso-1  suggesting that the circadian rhythm pathway is deregulated in mpm cells. bmal1 knockdown suppressed proliferation and anchorage-dependent and independent clonal growth in two mpm cell lines (acc-meso-1 and h290) but not in met-5a. notably  bmal1 depletion resulted in cell cycle disruption with a substantial increase in apoptotic and polyploidy cell population in association with downregulation of wee1  cyclin b and p21(waf1/cip1) and upregulation of cyclin e expression. bmal1 knockdown induced mitotic catastrophe as denoted by disruption of cell cycle regulators and induction of drastic morphological changes including micronucleation and multiple nuclei in acc-meso-1 cells that expressed the highest level of bmal1. taken together  these findings indicate that bmal1 has a critical role in mpm and could serve as an attractive therapeutic target for mpm.
4386,'zero is not good for me': implications of infertility in ghana.,background given the high value placed on children in sub-saharan africa  previous research suggests that infertility increases the risk of psychological distress and marital conflict  encourages risky sexual behavior and deprives infertile individuals and couples of an important source of economic and social capital. this paper explores the implications of infertility for women in ghana  west africa. methods semi-structured interview data collected from 107 women (aged 21-48 years  mean 33 years) seeking treatment in gynecological and obstetric clinics in accra  ghana  are analyzed. based on iterative open coding of the interviews  the focus of the analysis is on mental health  marital instability  social interaction and gendered experiences. results infertile women report facing severe social stigma  marital strain and a range of mental health difficulties. many women feel that they shoulder a disproportionate share of the blame for infertility and  by extension  face greater social consequences than male partners for difficulties conceiving. women who do not self-identify as infertile corroborate these findings  asserting that the social consequences of infertility are severe  particularly for women. conclusions infertility in ghana has important consequences for social interactions  marital stability and mental health. these consequences are not perceived to be shared equally by ghanaian men.
4388,mental health in prison populations. a review--with special emphasis on a study of danish prisoners on remand.,objective to review the literature on mental health and psychiatric morbidity in prison populations and relate findings to a danish study on remand prisoners. method the literature is reviewed and subdivided in the following section: validity of psychometrics in prison populations  prevalence of psychiatric disorders prior to imprisonment  incidence of psychiatric disorders during imprisonment  psychopathy related to psychiatric comorbidity  dependence syndromes with special emphasis on different administrations of heroin use (smoke vs. injection). the results are compared with a longitudinal danish study on remand prisoners in either solitary confinement (sc) or non-sc. results many factors must be taken into consideration when dealing with prisoners and mental health  e.g. international differences  the prison setting  demographics and methodological issues. the prison populations in general are increasing worldwide. psychometrics may perform differently in prison populations compared with general populations with the general health questionnaire-28 having a low validity in remand prisoners. psychiatric morbidity including schizophrenia is higher and perhaps increasing in prison populations compared with general populations with dependence syndromes being the most frequent disorders. the early phase of imprisonment is a vulnerable period with a moderately high incidence of adjustment disorders and twice the incidence in sc compared with non-sc. prevalence of psychopathy is lower in european than north american prisons. medium to high scores of psychopathy is related to higher psychiatric comorbidity. opioid dependence is the most frequent drug disorder with subjects using injection representing a more dysfunctional group than subjects using smoke administration. many mentally ill prisoners remain undetected and undertreated. conclusion there is a growing population of mentally ill prisoners being insufficiently detected and treated.
4390,the pre-b-cell receptor: selector of fitting immunoglobulin heavy chains for the b-cell repertoire,in this opinion article  i address the role of the pre-b-cell receptor (pre-bcr) in the development of antigen-specific b cells in terms of immunoglobulin heavy chain (igh) variable-region repertoire selection  precursor b-cell differentiation and proliferation  and igh allelic exclusion. comparisons with the role of the pre-t-cell receptor (pre-tcr) in t-cell development raise provocative questions. why do b- and t-cell lineages both use a surrogate chain — the surrogate light chain and the pre-tcr α-chain  respectively — as a step to develop their repertoires of antigen-recognizing cells? what are the functions of the pre-bcr and pre-tcr in lymphocyte differentiation and antigen-receptor allelic exclusion? this article  together with the accompanying article by harald von boehmer  hopes to answer some of these questions.
4392,effectiveness of statin-eluting stent on early inflammatory response and neointimal thickness in a porcine coronary model.,background drug-eluting stent (des) implantation is routine during coronary revascularization because des significantly reduce rates of restenosis and target lesion revascularization compared with bare metal stent (bms). however  available des have limitations  such as late thrombosis because of delayed healing with poorer endothelialization and persistent local inflammation. statins can inhibit cell proliferation  inflammation  and restore endothelial function. the present study evaluated the ability of stent-based cerivastatin delivery to reduce stent-induced inflammatory responses and adverse effects on endothelial function  and to inhibit neointimal hyperplasia in a porcine coronary model. methods and results pigs were randomized into groups in which the coronary arteries (9 pigs  18 coronaries in each group) had either a cerivastatin-eluting stent (ces) or a bms. all animals survived without any adverse effects. inflammatory cell infiltration evaluated using scanning electron microscopy on day 3 after stenting was significantly decreased in the treated vessels (inflammation score: 1.15+/-0.12 vs 2.43+/-0.34  p<0.0001). at day 28  endothelial function with intracoronary infusion of bradykinin was preserved in both the ces and bms groups. volumetric intravascular ultrasound images revealed decreased intimal volume in the ces group (28.3+/-5.4 vs 75.9+/-4.2 mm3  p<0.0001). histomorphometric analysis showed reduced neointimal area (1.74+/-0.45 vs 3.83+/-0.51 mm2  p<0.0001) in the ces group despite similar injury scores (1.77+/-0.30 vs 1.77+/-0.22  p=0.97). conclusion in porcine coronary arteries ces significantly decreased neointimal hyperplasia with a decreased early inflammatory response and without endothelial dysfunction.
4394,overlapping patterns of igf2 and h19 expression during human development: biallelic igf2 expression correlates with a lack of h19 expression.,the spatial patterns of igf2 and h19 gene expression are strikingly similar during parts of human embryonic/fetal and early postnatal development. notable exceptions were found with the ciliary anlage of the embryonic retina and the choroid plexus/leptomeninges  where transcripts from the igf2 but not the h19 locus could be detected. moreover  in contrast to the other tissue samples examined  the choroid plexus/leptomeninges expressed both parental igf2 alleles. whilst rnase protection analysis revealed a weak activity of the p1 promoter in the choroid plexus/leptomeninges  the p2  p3 and p4 promoters were all active wherever igf2 was expressed. we discuss these observations with respect to a hypothesized coordinated control of the reciprocally imprinted and closely linked igf2 and h19 loci.
4396,prevention of central venous catheter-associated thrombosis: a meta-analysis.,purpose anticoagulant prophylaxis in patients with central venous catheters is controversial. we performed a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials of anticoagulant prophylaxis in patients with central venous catheters. methods medline and embase were searched up to may 2006  supplemented by manual searches of conference proceedings and bibliographies. results fifteen trials were included. unfractionated heparin infusion  oral fixed low-dose vitamin k antagonist  and subcutaneous low-molecular-weight heparin were evaluated. for all catheter-associated deep vein thrombosis (symptomatic and asymptomatic combined)  the summary relative risks ranged from 0.31 to 0.73 (all achieved statistical significance). for symptomatic deep vein thrombosis  the summary relative risks ranged from 0.28 to 0.72  but did not achieve statistical significance for any individual regimen. conclusion anticoagulant prophylaxis is effective for preventing all catheter-associated deep vein thrombosis in patients with central venous catheters. the effectiveness for preventing symptomatic venous thromboembolism  including pulmonary embolism  remains uncertain.
4398,interferon gamma in autoimmunity: a complicated player on a complex stage.,early views of autoimmune disease cast ifnγ as a prototypic pro-inflammatory factor. it is now clear that ifnγ is capable of both pro- and anti-inflammatory activities with the functional outcome dependent on the physiological and pathological setting examined. here  the major immune modulatory activities of ifnγ are reviewed and current evidence for the impact of ifnγ on pathology and regulation of several autoimmune diseases and disease models is summarized.
4400,role for c-myc in activation-induced apoptotic cell death in t cell hybridomas.,immature t cells and some t cell hybridomas undergo apoptotic cell death when activated through the t cell receptor complex  a phenomenon that is probably related to antigen induced negative selection of developing t cells. this activation-induced apoptosis depends on active protein and rna synthesis in the dying cells  although none of the genes required for this process have previously been identified. antisense oligonucleotides corresponding to c-myc block the constitutive expression of c-myc protein in t cell hybridomas and interfere with all aspects of activation-induced apoptosis without affecting lymphokine production in these cells. these data indicate that c-myc expression is a necessary component of activation-induced apoptosis.
4402,the hippo pathway effector yap controls mouse hepatic stellate cell activation.,background & aims hepatic stellate cell activation is a wound-healing response to liver injury. however  continued activation of stellate cells during chronic liver damage causes excessive matrix deposition and the formation of pathological scar tissue leading to fibrosis and ultimately cirrhosis. the importance of sustained stellate cell activation for this pathological process is well recognized  and several signalling pathways that can promote stellate cell activation have been identified  such as the tgfβ-  pdgf-  and lps-dependent pathways. however  the mechanisms that trigger and drive the early steps in activation are not well understood. methods and results we identified the hippo pathway and its effector yap as a key pathway that controls stellate cell activation. yap is a transcriptional co-activator and we found that it drives the earliest changes in gene expression during stellate cell activation. activation of stellate cells in vivo by ccl4 administration to mice or activation in vitro caused rapid activation of yap as revealed by its nuclear translocation and by the induction of yap target genes. yap was also activated in stellate cells of human fibrotic livers as evidenced by its nuclear localization. importantly  knockdown of yap expression or pharmacological inhibition of yap prevented hepatic stellate cell activation in vitro and pharmacological inhibition of yap impeded fibrogenesis in mice. conclusions yap activation is a critical driver of hepatic stellate cell activation and inhibition of yap presents a novel approach for the treatment of liver fibrosis.
4404,the use of biosimilars in immune-mediated disease: a joint italian society of rheumatology (sir)  italian society of dermatology (sidemast)  and italian group of inflammatory bowel disease (ig-ibd) position paper.,biological agents are widely used in rheumatology  dermatology and inflammatory bowel disease. evidence about their efficacy and safety has been strengthened for all those therapeutic indications over the last decade. biosimilar agents are monoclonal antibodies similar to previously approved biologics. in the european union  they have been approved for all the indications in the management of immune-mediated inflammatory diseases (imids)  although data only in rheumatoid arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis are currently available. direct evidence on efficacy  safety  and immunogenicity of biosimilars is mandatory in psoriasis  psoriatic arthritis  and inflammatory bowel disease  as well as in children. based on the current evidence in the literature  we present the joint official position of the italian societies of rheumatology  dermatology and inflammatory bowel disease on the use of biosimilars in imids.
4406,a conserved modified wobble nucleoside (mcm5s2u) in lysyl-trna is required for viability in yeast.,transfer rnas specific for gln  lys  and glu from all organisms (except mycoplasma) and organelles have a 2-thiouridine derivative (xm(5)s(2)u) as wobble nucleoside. these trnas read the a- and g-ending codons in the split codon boxes his/gln  asn/lys  and asp/glu. in eukaryotic cytoplasmic trnas the conserved constituent (xm(5)-) in position 5 of uridine is 5-methoxycarbonylmethyl (mcm(5)). a protein (tuc1p) from yeast resembling the bacterial protein ttca  which is required for the synthesis of 2-thiocytidine in position 32 of the trna  was shown instead to be required for the synthesis of 2-thiouridine in the wobble position (position 34). apparently  an ancient member of the ttca family has evolved to thiolate u34 in trnas of organisms from the domains eukarya and archaea. deletion of the tuc1 gene together with a deletion of the elp3 gene  which results in the lack of the mcm(5) side chain  removes all modifications from the wobble uridine derivatives of the cytoplasmic trnas specific for gln  lys  and glu  and is lethal to the cell. since excess of the unmodified form of these three trnas rescued the double mutant elp3 tuc1  the primary function of mcm(5)s(2)u34 seems to be to improve the efficiency to read the cognate codons rather than to prevent mis-sense errors. surprisingly  overexpression of the mcm(5)s(2)u-lacking trna(lys) alone was sufficient to restore viability of the double mutant.
4408,ibuprofen for the treatment of patent ductus arteriosus in preterm or low birth weight (or both) infants.,background indomethacin is used as standard therapy to close a patent ductus arteriosus (pda) but is associated with reduced blood flow to several organs. ibuprofen  another cyclo-oxygenase inhibitor  may be as effective as indomethacin with fewer adverse effects. objectives to determine the effectiveness and safety of ibuprofen compared with indomethacin  other cyclo-oxygenase inhibitor  placebo or no intervention for closing a patent ductus arteriosus in preterm  low birth weight  or preterm and low birth weight infants. search methods we searched the cochrane library  medline  embase  clincialtrials.gov  controlled-trials.com  and www.abstracts2view.com/pas in may 2014. selection criteria randomised or quasi-randomised controlled trials of ibuprofen for the treatment of a pda in newborn infants. data collection and analysis data collection and analysis conformed to the methods of the cochrane neonatal review group. main results we included 33 studies enrolling 2190 infants. two studies compared intravenous (iv) ibuprofen versus placebo (270 infants). in one study (134 infants) ibuprofen reduced the incidence of failure to close a pda (risk ratio (rr) 0.71  95% confidence interval (ci) 0.51 to 0.99; risk difference (rd) -0.18  95% ci -0.35 to -0.01; number needed to treat for an additional beneficial outcome (nntb) 6  95% ci 3 to 100). in one study (136 infants)  ibuprofen reduced the composite outcome of infant mortality  infants who dropped out  or infants who required rescue treatment (rr 0.58  95% ci 0.38 to 0.89; rd -0.22  95% ci -0.38 to -0.06; nntb 5  95% ci 3 to 17). one study (64 infants) compared oral ibuprofen with placebo and noted a significant reduction in failure to close a pda (rr 0.26  95% ci 0.11 to 0.62; rd -0.44  95% ci -0.65 to -0.23; nntb 2  95% ci 2 to 4).twenty-one studies (1102 infants) reported failure rates for pda closure with ibuprofen (oral or iv) compared with indomethacin (oral or iv). there was no significant difference between the groups (typical rr 1.00  95% ci 0.84 to 1.20; i(2) = 0%; typical rd 0.00  95% ci -0.05 to 0.05; i(2) = 0%). the risk of developing necrotising enterocolitis (nec) was reduced for ibuprofen (16 studies  948 infants; typical rr 0.64  95% ci 0.45 to 0.93; typical rd -0.05  95% ci -0.08 to -0.01; nntb 20  95% ci 13 to 100; i(2) = 0% for both rr and rd). the duration of ventilatory support was reduced with ibuprofen (oral or iv) compared with iv or oral indomethacin (six studies  471 infants; mean difference (md) -2.4 days  95% ci -3.7 to -1.0; i(2) = 19%).eight studies (272 infants) reported on failure rates for pda closure in a subgroup of the above studies comparing oral ibuprofen with indomethacin (oral or iv). there was no significant difference between the groups (typical rr 0.96  95% ci 0.73 to 1.27; typical rd -0.01  95% ci -0.12 to 0.09). the risk of nec was reduced with oral ibuprofen compared with indomethacin (oral or iv) (seven studies  249 infants; typical rr 0.41  95% ci 0.23 to 0.73; typical rd -0.13  95% ci -0.22 to -0.05; nntb 8  95% ci 5 to 20; i(2) = 0% for both rr and rd). there was a decreased risk of failure to close a pda with oral ibuprofen compared with iv ibuprofen (four studies  304 infants; typical rr 0.41  95% ci 0.27 to 0.64; typical rd -0.21  95% ci -0.31 to -0.12; nntb 5  95% ci 3 to 8). transient renal insufficiency was less common in infants who received ibuprofen compared with indomethacin. high dose versus standard dose of iv ibuprofen  early versus expectant administration of iv ibuprofen  echocardiographically guided iv ibuprofen treatment vs. standard iv ibuprofen treatment and continuous infusion of ibuprofen vs. intermittent boluses of ibuprofen and long-term follow-up were studied in too few trials to draw any conclusions. authors' conclusions ibuprofen is as effective as indomethacin in closing a pda and currently appears to be the drug of choice. ibuprofen reduces the risk of nec and transient renal insufficiency. oro-gastric administration of ibuprofen appears as effective as iv administration. to make further recommendations  studies are needed to assess the effectiveness of high-dose versus standard-dose ibuprofen  early versus expectant administration of ibuprofen  echocardiographically guided versus standard iv ibuprofen  and continuous infusion versus intermittent boluses of ibuprofen. studies are lacking evaluating the effect of ibuprofen on longer-term outcomes in infants with pda.
4410,involvement of sympathetic nervous system and brown fat in endotoxin-induced fever in rats.,the object of this study was to assess the role of brown adipose tissue (bat) and the sympathetic nervous system in the rise in heat production associated with endotoxin-induced fever. oxygen consumption (vo2) was found to be significantly increased (28%) over a 4-h period after two doses of endotoxin (escherichia coli lipopolysaccharide  0.3 mg/100 g body wt) given 24 h apart. injection of a mixed beta-adrenoceptor antagonist (propranolol) reduced vo2 by 14% in endotoxin-treated rats  whereas the selective beta 1- (atenolol) or beta 2- (ici 118551) antagonists suppressed vo2 by 10%. these drugs did not affect vo2 in control animals. bat thermogenic activity assessed from measurements of in vitro mitochondrial guanosine 5'-diphosphate (gdp) binding was elevated by 54% in interscapular bat and by 171% in other bat depots. surgical denervation of one lobe of the interscapular depot prevented these responses. endotoxin failed to stimulate gdp binding in rats fed protein-deficient diets. this may have been because bat thermogenic activity was already elevated in control rats fed these diets or because endotoxin caused a marked suppression of food intake in the protein-deficient animals. the results indicate that sympathetic activation of bat is involved in the thermogenic responses to endotoxin and that these can be modified by dietary manipulation.
4412,genome-wide analysis reveals sr protein cooperation and competition in regulated splicing.,sr proteins are well-characterized rna binding proteins that promote exon inclusion by binding to exonic splicing enhancers (eses). however  it has been unclear whether regulatory rules deduced on model genes apply generally to activities of sr proteins in the cell. here  we report global analyses of two prototypical sr proteins  srsf1 (sf2/asf) and srsf2 (sc35)  using splicing-sensitive arrays and clip-seq on mouse embryo fibroblasts (mefs). unexpectedly  we find that these sr proteins promote both inclusion and skipping of exons in vivo  but their binding patterns do not explain such opposite responses. further analyses reveal that loss of one sr protein is accompanied by coordinated loss or compensatory gain in the interaction of other sr proteins at the affected exons. therefore  specific effects on regulated splicing by one sr protein actually depend on a complex set of relationships with multiple other sr proteins in mammalian genomes.
4414,eosinophil pathogenicity mechanisms and therapeutics in neuromyelitis optica.,eosinophils are abundant in inflammatory demyelinating lesions in neuromyelitis optica (nmo). we used cell culture  ex vivo spinal cord slices  and in vivo mouse models of nmo to investigate the role of eosinophils in nmo pathogenesis and the therapeutic potential of eosinophil inhibitors. eosinophils cultured from mouse bone marrow produced antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (adcc) in cell cultures expressing aquaporin-4 in the presence of nmo autoantibody (nmo-igg). in the presence of complement  eosinophils greatly increased cell killing by a complement-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (cdcc) mechanism. nmo pathology was produced in nmo-igg-treated spinal cord slice cultures by inclusion of eosinophils or their granule toxins. the second-generation antihistamines cetirizine and ketotifen  which have eosinophil-stabilizing actions  greatly reduced nmo-igg/eosinophil-dependent cytotoxicity and nmo pathology. in live mice  demyelinating nmo lesions produced by continuous intracerebral injection of nmo-igg and complement showed marked eosinophil infiltration. lesion severity was increased in transgenic hypereosinophilic mice. lesion severity was reduced in mice made hypoeosinophilic by anti-il-5 antibody or by gene deletion  and in normal mice receiving cetirizine orally. our results implicate the involvement of eosinophils in nmo pathogenesis by adcc and cdcc mechanisms and suggest the therapeutic utility of approved eosinophil-stabilizing drugs.
4416,actin dynamics and cell-cell adhesion in epithelia.,recent advances in the field of intercellular adhesion highlight the importance of adherens junction association with the underlying actin cytoskeleton. in skin epithelial cells a dynamic feature of adherens junction formation involves filopodia  which physically project into the membrane of adjacent cells  catalyzing the clustering of adherens junction protein complexes at their tips. in turn  actin polymerization is stimulated at the cytoplasmic interface of these complexes. although the mechanism remains unclear  the vasp/mena family of proteins seems to be involved in organizing actin polymerization at these sites. in vivo  adherens junction formation appears to rely upon filopodia in processes where epithelial sheets must be physically moved closer to form stable intercellular connections  for example  in ventral closure in embryonic development or wound healing in the postnatal animal.
4418,zmpste24 deficiency in mice causes spontaneous bone fractures  muscle weakness  and a prelamin a processing defect.,zmpste24 is an integral membrane metalloproteinase of the endoplasmic reticulum. biochemical studies of tissues from zmpste24-deficient mice (zmpste24(-/-)) have indicated a role for zmpste24 in the processing of caax-type prenylated proteins. here  we report the pathologic consequences of zmpste24 deficiency in mice. zmpste24(-/-) mice gain weight slowly  appear malnourished  and exhibit progressive hair loss. the most striking pathologic phenotype is multiple spontaneous bone fractures-akin to those occurring in mouse models of osteogenesis imperfecta. cortical and trabecular bone volumes are significantly reduced in zmpste24(-/-) mice. zmpste24(-/-) mice also manifested muscle weakness in the lower and upper extremities  resembling mice lacking the farnesylated caax protein prelamin a. prelamin a processing was defective both in fibroblasts lacking zmpste24 and in fibroblasts lacking the caax carboxyl methyltransferase icmt but was normal in fibroblasts lacking the caax endoprotease rce1. muscle weakness in zmpste24(-/-) mice can be reasonably ascribed to defective processing of prelamin a  but the brittle bone phenotype suggests a broader role for zmpste24 in mammalian biology.
4420,current health and environmental status of the maasai people in sub-saharan africa,as time passes  the aids pandemic continues to spike  affecting an estimated 38.6 million people worldwide. in response  a satellite health clinic is being d esigned by two cal poly students to serve the maasai people living in the kajiado district in southern kenya. the maasai have traditionally lived as pastoralists  surviving off of their cattle with which they share their water  increasing the risk for contamination. however  as the population of kenya increases  the land the maasai have traditionally used for grazing is shrink­ ing. for this reason  some have turned to farming to maintain their liveli­ hood. these factors have contributed to the desertification and deforestation of their region. as the lifestyle of the maasai evolves  they rely more on maize than meat and dairy products for their nutrients. all of these changes have contributed to the evolution of the maasai culture. we will address these changes in order to better understand the maasai  as well as highlight pos­ sible further aid needed to support their survival.
4422,expression of golli mrna during development in primary immune lymphoid organs of the rat,the gene-of-the-oligodendrocyte lineage (golli)-mbp transcription unit contains three golli-specific exons together with eight exons of the "classical" myelin basic protein (mbp) gene  yielding alternatively spliced proteins which share amino acid sequence with mbp. unlike mbp  a late antigen expressed only in the nervous system  golli gene products are expressed pre- and post-natally at many sites. in this study  we determined the sequence of golli in rat by rt-pcr and 5' race and showed that golli sequences are expressed in primary lymphoid organs as early as e16.5  which could explain the anergic rat t cell response we previously observed in golli-induced meningitis.
4424,pericyte differentiation.,pericytes are defined in vivo by their location: they are embedded within the basement membrane of microvessels. they form an integral part of the microvascular wall and are believed to participate in angiogenesis  although their precise role is not clear. pericytes derived from the retinal microvasculature have been cultured and identified by a series of phenotypic characteristics that clearly distinguishes them from other stromal cells such as smooth muscle cells. pericytes in vitro form multicellular nodules rich in extracellular matrix. this matrix becomes mineralized in the presence of growth medium containing serum  without exogenous beta-glycerophosphate. these results indicate that pericytes represent primitive mesenchymal cells able to differentiate into an osteogenic phenotype. pericyte differentiation also is defined by alterations in their response to transforming growth factor beta 1 and changes in the synthesis and/or deposition of various extracellular matrix proteins such as laminin  type iv collagen  tenascin  type x collagen osteonectin  and thrombospondin-1. angiogenesis is associated commonly with mineralization. these data suggest that pericytes may contribute to mineralization in vivo.
4426,a new era in ovulation induction.,objective to evaluate the efficacy of aromatase inhibitors in ovulation induction  superovulation  and ivf. design a literature search was conducted with the key words "aromatase inhibitor " "letrozole " "anastrazole " "ovulation induction " "ovulation " and "superovulation" in medline  embase  and the cochrane database of systematic reviews. result(s) ovulation induction with letrozole is associated with an ovulation rate of 70%-84% and a pregnancy rate of 20%-27% per cycle. in one study  ovulation and pregnancy rates with letrozole seemed to be higher than those of anastrazole. in superovulation  letrozole is associated with few developing follicles and thick endometrium. the use of letrozole for superovulation is associated with a pregnancy rate higher than with the use of clomiphene citrate (cc) (16.7% vs. 5.6%). the addition of letrozole to fsh treatment leads to a decreased fsh requirement. the pregnancy rate for treatment with letrozole and fsh was similar to that for fsh alone. conclusion(s) aromatase inhibitors are as effective as or superior to cc in ovulation induction and in superovulation. unlike cc  they do not carry an antiestrogenic effect on the endometrium. given the advantages of aromatase inhibitors  they can be used to replace cc as ovulation-inducing drugs. their role in ivf remains to be determined.
4428,long crocidolite asbestos fibers cause polyploidy by sterically blocking cytokinesis.,asbestos has been described as a physical carcinogen in that its carcinogenic effects appear to be related primarily to fiber dimensions. it has been hypothesized that long asbestos fibers may interfere with chromosome distribution during cell division  causing genomic changes that lead to cell transformation and neoplastic progression. using high-resolution time-lapse light microscopy and serial-section electron microscopy  we have followed individual crocidolite asbestos fibers through the later stages of cell division in llc-mk2 epithelial cells  and have detailed for the first time their effect on cytokinesis. we found that long fibers (15-55 microgram)  trapped by the cleavage furrow  sterically blocked cytokinesis  sometimes resulting in the formation of a binucleated cell. the ends of blocking fibers were usually found within invaginations of the newly formed nuclei. nuclear envelope-fiber attachment was evident when a chromatin strand ran with the fiber into the intercellular bridge. such strands may break  causing chromosome structural rearrangements. our data are the first to show that individual crocidolite fibers can cause genomic changes by sterically blocking cytokinesis and that fiber length and affinity for the nuclear envelope are important factors. such genomic changes may be among the initial events leading to asbestos-induced cancers.
4430,what's in the 'treatment gap'? ethnographic perspectives on addiction and global mental health from china  russia  and the united states.,recent years have seen the emergence of a 'global mental health' agenda  focused on providing evidence-based interventions for mental illnesses in low- and middle-income countries. anthropologists and cultural psychiatrists have engaged in vigorous debates about the appropriateness of this agenda. in this article  we reflect on these debates  drawing on ethnographic fieldwork on the management of substance use disorders in china  russia  and the united states. we argue that the logic of 'treatment gaps ' which guides much research and intervention under the rubric of global mental health  partially obscures the complex assemblages of institutions  therapeutics  knowledges  and actors framing and managing addiction (as well as other mental health issues) in any particular setting.
4432,mycobacterium tuberculosis phagosome maturation arrest: selective targeting of pi3p-dependent membrane trafficking.,the ability of mycobacterium tuberculosis to enter host macrophages  and reside in a phagosome  which does not mature into a phagolysosome  is central to the spread of tuberculosis and the associated pandemic involving billions of people worldwide. tuberculosis can be viewed as a disease with a significant intracellular trafficking and organellar biogenesis component. current understanding of the block in m. tuberculosis phagosome maturation also sheds light on fundamental aspects of phagolysosome biogenesis. the maturation block involves interference with the recruitment and function of rabs  rab effectors (phosphatidylinositol 3-kinases and tethering molecules such as eea1)  snares (syntaxin 6 and cellubrevin) and ca2+/calmodulin signaling. m. tuberculosis analogs of mammalian phosphatidylinositols interfere with these systems and associated processes.
4434,measuring adherence to highly active antiretroviral therapy: implications for research and practice.,highly active antiretroviral therapy (haart) has radically changed the course of hiv disease  producing substantial reductions in both hiv-related morbidity and mortality. however  the complexity of the typical daily haart regimen is substantial  and high levels of adherence are essential for complete and long-term viral suppression and the avoidance of drug resistance. the complexity of haart has made the assessment of medication adherence of paramount importance. even though various methods are in use  each measures only a subset of adherence behaviors  and each measure has limited predictive validity. given the individual and public health concerns associated with adherence to haart  there is a need for the continued development and validation of measures of medication adherence.
4436,p0 glycoprotein peptides 56–71 and 180–199 dose-dependently induce acute and chronic experimental autoimmune neuritis in lewis rats associated with epitope spreading,two synthetic peripheral nerve myelin p0 protein peptides  an immunodominant (amino acids 180-199) and a cryptic (amino acids 56-71) one  induced an acute or chronic course of experimental autoimmune neuritis (ean) in lewis rats  when given at low dose (50-100 microg/rat) or high dose (250 microg/rat)  respectively. corresponding to the different clinical course  pathological changes and immune responses were found: (1) onset of clinical signs of p0 peptide 56-71 (p0 56-71) induced ean was 1-3 days later than in p0 peptide 180-199 (p0 180-199) induced ean at all immunizing doses  whereas the peak of the disease occurred at a similar time point post immunization (p.i.)  i.e. at days 14-16 p.i. in p0 56-71 induced ean and at day 16 p.i. in p0 180-199 induced ean. (2) intramolecular epitope spreading as assessed by delayed type hypersensitivity response occurred in p0 56-71 induced ean at both low and high antigen doses and in p0 180-199 induced ean at high antigen dose (250 microg/rat) only. (3) p0 180-199 stimulated higher levels of interferon-gamma production in p0 180-199 induced ean than in p0 56-71 induced ean and vice versa. (4) histopathologic evaluation revealed a similar grade of mononuclear cell infiltration in the sciatic nerves of both types of ean  but more severe demyelination was found in p0 180-199 induced ean compared to p0 56-71 induced ean. the results support the hypothesis that high dose autoantigen immunization induces extensive determinant spreading and chronic course of autoimmune diseases.
4438,clip-170 interacts with dynactin complex and the apc-binding protein eb1 by different mechanisms.,clip-170 is a "cytoplasmic linker protein" implicated in endosome-microtubule interactions and in control of microtubule dynamics. clip-170 localizes dynamically to growing microtubule plus ends  colocalizing with the dynein activator dynactin and the apc-binding protein eb1. this shared "plus-end tracking" behavior suggests that clip-170 might interact with dynactin and/or eb1. we have used site-specific mutagenesis of clip-170 and a transfection/colocalization assay to address this question in mammalian tissue culture cells. our results indicate that clip-170 interacts  directly or indirectly  with both dynactin and eb1. we find that the clip-170/dynactin interaction is mediated by the second metal binding motif of the clip-170 tail. in contrast  the clip-170/eb1 interaction requires neither metal binding motif. in addition  our experiments suggest that the clip-170/dynactin interaction occurs via the shoulder/sidearm subcomplex of dynactin and can occur in the cytosol (i.e.  it does not require microtubule binding). these results have implications for the targeting of both dynactin and eb1 to microtubule plus ends. our data suggest that the clip-170/dynactin interaction can target dynactin complex to microtubule plus ends  although dynactin likely also targets mt plus ends directly via the microtubule binding motif of the p150(glued) subunit. we find that clip-170 mutants alter p150(glued) localization without affecting eb1  indicating that eb1 can target microtubule plus ends independently of dynactin.
4440,exercise training-induced adaptations in the coronary circulation.,aerobic exercise training induces an increase in coronary blood flow capacity that is associated with altered control of coronary vascular resistance and  therefore  coronary blood flow. the relative importance of metabolic  myogenic  endothelium-mediated  and neurohumoral control systems varies throughout the coronary arterial tree  and these control systems contribute in parallel to regulating coronary vascular resistance to differing degrees at each level in the coronary arterial tree. in addition to this nonuniformity of the relative importance of vascular control systems in the coronary arterial tree  it appears that exercise training-induced adaptations are also distributed spatially  in a nonuniform manner throughout the coronary tree. as a result  it is necessary to examine training-induced adaptations throughout the coronary arterial tree. adaptations in endothelium-mediated control play a role in training-induced changes in control of coronary vascular resistance  and there is evidence that the effects of training may be different in large coronary arteries than in the microcirculation. also  there is evidence that the mode  frequency  and intensity of exercise training bouts and duration of training may influence the adaptive changes in endothelial function. exercise training has also been shown to induce changes in responses of coronary vascular smooth muscle to vasoactive agents and alterations in the cellular-molecular control of intracellular ca2+ in coronary vascular smooth muscle of conduit coronary arteries and to enhance myogenic reactivity of coronary resistance arteries. exercise training also appears to have different effects on vascular smooth muscle in large coronary arteries than in the microcirculation. for example  adenosine sensitivity is increased in conduit coronary arteries and large resistance arteries after training but is not altered in small coronary resistance arteries of trained animals. although much remains to be studied  evidence clearly indicates that chronic exercise alters the phenotype of coronary endothelial and vascular smooth muscle cells and that plasticity of these cells plays a role in adaptation of the cardiovascular system in exercise training.
4442,comparison of survival between cerebellar and supratentorial glioblastoma patients: surveillance  epidemiology  and end results (seer) analysis.,background cerebellar glioblastoma multiforme (cgbm) is rare  and although there is a general belief that these tumors have a worse prognosis than supratentorial gbm (sgbm)  few studies have been published to support this belief. objective to investigate the effect of cerebellar location on survival through a case-control design comparing overall survival time of cgbm and sgbm patients. methods the surveillance  epidemiology  and end results (seer) registry was used to identify 132 patients with cgbm (1973-2008). each cgbm patient was matched with an sgbm patient from among 20 848 sgbm patients on the basis of age  extent of resection  decade of diagnosis  and radiation therapy using propensity score matching. results within the cgbm  37% were older than 65 years of age  62% were men  and 87% were white. most patients underwent surgery and radiation (74%)  whereas only 26% underwent surgical resection only. the median survival time for the cgbm and sgbm matched cohort was 8 months; however  the survival distributions differed (log-rank p = .04). survival time for cgbm vs sgbm at 2 years was 21.5% vs 8.0%  and 12.7% vs 5.3% at 3 years. multivariate analysis of survival among cgbm patients showed that younger age (p < .0001) and having radiation therapy (p < .0001) were significantly associated with reduced hazard of mortality. among all patients  multivariate analysis showed that tumor location (p = .03)  age (p < .0001)  tumor size (p = .009)  radiation (p < .0001)  and resection (p < .0001) were associated with survival time in the unmatched cohort. conclusion median survival time for cgbm and sgbm patients was 8 months  but cgbm patients had a survival time advantage as the study progressed. these findings suggest that cgbm patients should be treated as aggressively as sgbm patients with surgical resection and radiation therapy.
4444,three common functional polymorphisms in microrna encoding genes in the susceptibility to hepatocellular carcinoma: a systematic review and meta-analysis.,emerging evidences have shown that common genetic polymorphisms in micrornas may be associated with the development of hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc); but individually published studies and previous meta-analyses revealed inconclusive results. the aims of this review and meta-analysis are to assess whether common single-nucleotide polymorphisms (snps) in the genes encoding the micrornas are associated with susceptibility to hcc development and clinicopathologic characteristics of hepatitis b virus (hbv) related hcc. a computerized search was performed in pubmed  embase  web of science and china biomedicine (cbm) databases to identify relevant articles published before january 1st 2013. ten case-control studies were assessed with a total of 3437 cases and 3437 healthy controls. three common functional snps in mirna-encoding genes were found  including mir-146a g>c (rs2910164)  mir-196a-2 c>t (rs11614913) and mir-499 t>c (rs3746444). this meta-analysis revealed that the mir-146a c variant was associated with a decrease in hcc risk  especially among asian and male populations; while the mir-196a-2 t variant was associated with susceptibility to hcc among caucasian populations. however  we failed to find any significant correlations between the mir-499 c polymorphism and hcc risks. when further stratification on hbv status was conducted  a similar trend of association between the three snps and the hbv-related hcc risks was observed  but these results were not statistically significant due to small sample sizes. the current meta-analysis demonstrates that snps contained in the genes encoding mir-146a and mir-196a-2 may play a major role in genetic susceptibility to hcc.
4446,similar activation of signal transduction pathways by the herpesvirus-encoded chemokine receptors us28 and orf74.,the virally encoded chemokine receptors us28 from human cytomegalovirus and orf74 from human herpesvirus 8 are both constitutively active. we show that both receptors constitutively activate the transcription factors nuclear factor of activated t cells (nfat) and camp response element binding protein (creb) and that both pathways are modulated by their respective endogenous receptor ligands. by addition of specific pathway modulators against the g protein subunit galphai  phospholipase c  protein kinase c  calcineurin  p38 map kinase  and mek1  we find that the constitutive and ligand-dependent inductions are mediated by multiple yet similar pathways in both receptors. the nfat and creb transcription factors and their upstream activators are known inducers of host and virally encoded genes. we propose that the activity of these virally encoded chemokine receptors coordinates host and potentially viral gene expression similarly. as orf74 is a known inducer of neoplasia  these findings may have important implications for cytomegalovirus-associated pathogenicity.
4448,3'-end processing of pre-mrna in eukaryotes.,3'-ends of almost all eukaryotic mrnas are generated by endonucleolytic cleavage and addition of a poly(a) tail. in mammalian cells  the reaction depends on the sequence aauaaa upstream of the cleavage site  a degenerate gu-rich sequence element downstream of the cleavage site and stimulatory sequences upstream of aauaaa. six factors have been identified that carry out the two reactions. with a single exception  they have been purified to homogeneity and cdnas for 11 subunits have been cloned. some of the cooperative rna-protein and protein-protein interactions within the processing complex have been analyzed  but many details  including the identity of the endonuclease  remain unknown. several examples of regulated polyadenylation are being analyzed at the molecular level. in the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae  sequences directing cleavage and polyadenylation are more degenerate than in metazoans  and a downstream element has not been identified. the list of processing factors may be complete now with approximately a dozen polypeptides  but their functions in the reaction are largely unknown. 3'-processing is known to be coupled to transcription. this connection is thought to involve interactions of processing factors with the mrna cap as well as with rna polymerase ii.
4450,cardiovascular effects of intensive lifestyle intervention in type 2 diabetes.,background weight loss is recommended for overweight or obese patients with type 2 diabetes on the basis of short-term studies  but long-term effects on cardiovascular disease remain unknown. we examined whether an intensive lifestyle intervention for weight loss would decrease cardiovascular morbidity and mortality among such patients. methods in 16 study centers in the united states  we randomly assigned 5145 overweight or obese patients with type 2 diabetes to participate in an intensive lifestyle intervention that promoted weight loss through decreased caloric intake and increased physical activity (intervention group) or to receive diabetes support and education (control group). the primary outcome was a composite of death from cardiovascular causes  nonfatal myocardial infarction  nonfatal stroke  or hospitalization for angina during a maximum follow-up of 13.5 years. results the trial was stopped early on the basis of a futility analysis when the median follow-up was 9.6 years. weight loss was greater in the intervention group than in the control group throughout the study (8.6% vs. 0.7% at 1 year; 6.0% vs. 3.5% at study end). the intensive lifestyle intervention also produced greater reductions in glycated hemoglobin and greater initial improvements in fitness and all cardiovascular risk factors  except for low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol levels. the primary outcome occurred in 403 patients in the intervention group and in 418 in the control group (1.83 and 1.92 events per 100 person-years  respectively; hazard ratio in the intervention group  0.95; 95% confidence interval  0.83 to 1.09; p=0.51). conclusions an intensive lifestyle intervention focusing on weight loss did not reduce the rate of cardiovascular events in overweight or obese adults with type 2 diabetes. (funded by the national institutes of health and others; look ahead clinicaltrials.gov number  nct00017953.).
4452,cardiorespiratory adaptation during sleep in infants and children.,the cardiorespiratory control system undergoes functional maturation after birth. until this process is completed  the cardiorespiratory system is unstable  placing infants at risk for cardiorespiratory disturbances  especially during sleep. the profound influence of states of alertness on respiratory and cardiac control has been the focus of intense scrutiny during the last decade. the effects of rapid-eye movement (rem) sleep on various mechanisms involved in cardiorespiratory control are of particular significance during the postnatal period since newborns spend much of their time in this sleep state. in fullterm newborns  rem sleep occupies more than 50% of total sleep time  and this percentage is even greater in preterm newborns. from term to six months of age  the proportion of rem sleep decreases. since respiratory and cardiac disturbances are known to occur selectively during rem sleep  the predominance of rem sleep may be a risk factor for abnormal sleep-related events during early infancy. awareness of these developmental changes in sleep patterns is important for clinicians dealing with problems such as apparent life-threatening events (alte)  sudden infant death syndrome (sids)  and/or cardiorespiratory responses to respiratory disorders. our current understanding of respiratory and cardiac control rests mainly on studies conducted during the first months of life. there is a paucity of data on late infancy and early childhood. the present paper will review available data on how sleep affects 1) ventilatory mechanics  in particular of the upper airways and the chest wall; ventilation and apnea; gas exchange; chemoreceptor function; and arousal responses; 2) changes in heart rate and heart rate variability  and the occurrence and mechanisms of bradycardia.
4454,statins in the treatment of polycythaemia vera and allied disorders: an antithrombotic and cytoreductive potential?,thrombohaemorrhagic complications are major clinical problems in the classical chronic ph-negative myeloproliferative disorders (cmpds)  polycytaemia vera (pv)  essential thrombocythaemia (et) and idiopathic myelofibrosis (imf)  contributing significantly to morbidity and mortality. pathophysiologically these disorders are characterized by clonal myeloproliferation  myeloaccumulation and a propensity to develop myelofibrosis and neoangiogenesis in both the bone marrow and spleen. based upon in vitro and in vivo studies of the effects of statins (antithrombotic  antiproliferative  proapoptotic and antiangiogenic)  this review focuses on the translation of these effects into potential clinical benefits of statin therapy in patients with cmpds.
4456,identification of an h2-m3-restricted listeria epitope: implications for antigen presentation by m3.,using expression cloning  we have identified an h2-m3-restricted epitope of the intracellular bacterial pathogen listeria monocytogenes. picomolar concentrations of an amino-terminal n-formylated hexapeptide  fmigwii  targeted cells for lysis by cd8+ cytotoxic t cells  while the nonformylated peptide was approximately 100-fold less active. the sequence of the 185 aa protein source of this epitope predicts a transmembrane protein that retains its n terminus and assumes an n(out)-c(in) topology. this membrane orientation offers an explanation for the protection of the epitope from deformylases present in the bacterial cell and suggests an explanation for the ability of phagocytes to present h2-m3-restricted bacterial epitopes via a vacuolar tap-independent mechanism.
4458,critical role of cd28 in protective immunity against salmonella typhimurium.,efficient t cell activation requires both tcr signals and costimulatory signals. cd28 is one of the molecules that provide costimulatory signals for t cells. we used mice deficient in cd28 expression (cd28-/- mice) to analyze the role of cd28 in the immune response against the intracellular bacterium salmonella typhimurium  the causative agent of murine typhoid fever. cd28-/- mice were highly susceptible to infection with wild-type s. typhimurium and even failed to control infection with attenuated aroa- s. typhimurium. more detailed analysis revealed that cd28-/- animals did not mount a t-dependent ab response and were highly impaired in the production of ifn-gamma. thus  cd28 cosignaling is crucial for immunity against s. typhimurium. to our knowledge  this is the first report describing an essential role for cd28 in protective immunity against an intracellular microbial pathogen.
4460,`gain of function' phenotype of tumor-derived mutant p53 requires the oligomerization/nonsequence-specific nucleic acid-binding domain,tumor-derived p53 mutants can transcriptionally activate a number of promoters of genes involved in cellular proliferation. for this transactivation  mutant p53 does not use the wild-type p53 dna-binding site  suggesting a mechanism of transactivation that is independent of direct dna binding. here we describe our analysis of the domain requirements for mutant p53 to transactivate promoters of the human epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr)  human multiple drug resistance 1 (mdr-1) and human proliferating cell nuclear antigen (pcna) genes. we also report the identification of a structural domain required for the `gain of function' property of mutant p53-281g. `gain of function' is measured as the tumorigenicity (in nude mice) of 10(3) murine cells expressing mutant p53 constitutively. we have generated internal deletion mutants of p53-281g deleting conserved domains i  ii  iii  iv and v  individually. we have also generated one deletion mutant eliminating amino acids 100 through 300 that removes four of the five conserved domains (ii–v); another mutant  p53-281g del 393-327  deletes the oligomerization and nonsequence-specific nucleic acid-binding domains of p53. for the egfr and mdr-1 promoters  all these mutants have significantly lower transactivation ability than intact p53-281g. these deletion mutants  however  significantly activated the pcna promoter  suggesting that the mechanism of transactivation of the pcna promoter is different from that of the egfr and mdr-1 promoters. when expressed constitutively in 10(3) cells  p53-281g del 393-327 was found to be defective in inducing tumor formation in nude mice although intact p53-281g was very efficient. thus  our results suggest that structural domains near the c-terminus are needed for `gain of function'.
4462,pregnancy in women with type 1 diabetes: have the goals of st. vincent declaration been met concerning foetal and neonatal complications?,objective in 1989 the st. vincent declaration set a five-year target for approximating outcomes of pregnancies in women with diabetes to those of the background population. we investigated and quantified the risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes in pregnant women with type 1 diabetes (t1dm) to evaluate if the goals of the 1989 st. vincent declaration have been obtained concerning foetal and neonatal complications. methods twelve population-based studies published within the last 10 years with in total 14 099 women with t1dm and 4 035 373 women from the background population were identified. the prevalence of four foetal and neonatal complications was compared. results in women with t1dm versus the background population  congenital malformations occurred in 5.0% (2.2-9.0) (weighted mean and range) versus 2.1% (1.5-2.9)  relative risk (rr) = 2.4  perinatal mortality in 2.7% (2.0-6.6) versus 0.72% (0.48-0.9)  rr = 3.7  preterm delivery in 25.2% (13.0-41.7) versus 6.0% (4.7-7.1)  rr = 4.2 and delivery of large for gestational infants in 54.2% (45.1-62.5) versus 10.0%  rr = 4.5. early pregnancy hba1c was positively associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes. conclusion the risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes was two to five times increased in women with t1dm compared with the general population. the goals of the st. vincent declaration have not been achieved.
4464,nicotinic acid adenine dinucleotide 2'-phosphate (naadp) binding proteins in t-lymphocytes.,nicotinic acid adenine dinucleotide phosphate (naadp) is a messenger that regulates calcium release from intracellular acidic stores. although several channels  including two-pore channels (tpc)  ryanodine receptor (ryr) and mucolipin (trp-ml1) have been implicated in naadp regulation of calcium signaling  the naadp receptor has not been identified. in this study  the photoaffinity probe  [32p]-5-azido-naadp ([32p]-5-n3-naadp)  was used to study naadp binding proteins in extracts from naadp responsive jurkat t-lymphocytes. [32p]-5-n3-naadp photolabeling of jurkat s100 cytosolic fractions resulted in the labeling of at least ten distinct proteins. several of these s100 proteins  including a doublet at 22/23 kda and small protein at 15 kda displayed selectivity for naadp as the labeling was protected by inclusion of unlabeled naadp  whereas the structurally similar nadp required much higher concentrations for protection. interestingly  the labeling of several s100 proteins (60  45  33 and 28 kda) was stimulated by low concentrations of unlabeled naadp  but not by nadp. the effect of naadp on the labeling of the 60 kda protein was biphasic  peaking at 100 nm with a five-fold increase and displaying no change at 1 µm naadp. several proteins were also photolabeled when the p100 membrane fraction from jurkat cells was examined. similar to the results with s100  a 22/23 kda doublet and a 15 kda protein appeared to be selectively labeled. naadp did not increase the labeling of any p100 proteins as it did in the s100 fraction. the photolabeled s100 and p100 proteins were successfully resolved by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. [32p]-5-n3-naadp photolabeling and two-dimensional electrophoresis should represent a suitable strategy in which to identify and characterize naadp binding proteins.
4466,il-28  il-29 and their class ii cytokine receptor il-28r,cytokines play a critical role in modulating the innate and adaptive immune systems. here  we have identified from the human genomic sequence a family of three cytokines  designated interleukin 28a (il-28a)  il-28b and il-29  that are distantly related to type i interferons (ifns) and the il-10 family. we found that like type i ifns  il-28 and il-29 were induced by viral infection and showed antiviral activity. however  il-28 and il-29 interacted with a heterodimeric class ii cytokine receptor that consisted of il-10 receptor β (il-10rβ) and an orphan class ii receptor chain  designated il-28rα. this newly described cytokine family may serve as an alternative to type i ifns in providing immunity to viral infection.
4468,methanosphaera stadtmaniae gen. nov.  sp. nov.: a species that forms methane by reducing methanol with hydrogen,methanosphaera stadtmaniae is a non-motile  gram-positive spherical-shaped organism that obtains energy for growth by using hydrogen to reduce methanol to methane. it does not produce methane from hydrogen and carbon dioxide  formate  acetate or methylamines and cannot grow with hydrogen and carbon monoxide  nitrate  fumarate  sulfate or choline. its ph optimum is 6.5 to 6.9 and its temperature optimum is 36° to 40° c. it is not inhibited by bile salts  inhibitors of the synthesis of folic acid coenzymes  cephalothin or clindamycin but is inhibited by metronidazole  bacitracin  monensin  lasalocid  or bromoethanesulfonate. it requires acetate  carbon dioxide  isoleucine  ammonium  and thiamin for growth and biotin is stimulatory. it does not contain cytochromes and the mol % g+c of its dna is 25.8. the composition of its cell wall and 16 s rrna and its immunological fingerprint are consistent with characterization of the organism as a member of a new genus of the family methanobacteriaceae. the habitat of the type strain is the human large intestine.
4470,embryonic-like stem cell derived from adult bone marrow: immature morphology  cell surface markers  ultramicrostructure and differentiation into multinucleated fibers in vitro.,embryonic-like stem cell (elsc)  expressing part of surface markers of human embryonic stem cells  may be a better candidate for cell therapy of degenerative muscular disease than mesenchymal stem cell (msc). we isolated elsc and msc from bone marrow  respectively  and compared their differences in the characteristics and the capacity of myogenic differentiation. results showed that elsc could be isolated successfully from 3 adult bone marrow samples by using serum-free medium with 10ng/ml basic fibroblast growth factor (bfgf). at the same cell density  msc could also be isolated from the same samples by using dmem/f12 medium containing 10% new cattle serum. however  elsc appeared as small  morphologically slenderer  upregulated expression of ssea-4 and ultramicroscopically more immature than msc derived from the same samples. immunofluorescent staining and rt-pcr analysis showed elsc weakly expressed oct-4  nanog-3 and sox-2. moreover  elsc and msc could be induced into long  multinucleated fibers expressing myogenin and myosin heavy chain (mhc) in myogenic differentiation medium  but by day 10  proportion of multinucleated fibers positive for mhc was respectively 25.0%+/-6.9% and 13.8%+/-7.6% in elsc and msc culture. these data suggest that bone marrow derived elsc represent an ideal candidate for cell therapy of degenerative muscular disease.
4472,using the yeast gene deletion collection to customize gene expression.,substitute teacher despite the relative ease of genome manipulation in s. cerevisiae  researchers are always looking to learn still more convenient and rapid methods for substituting yeast promoters. replacing a gene's native promoter with a heterolo-gous promoter of choice allows regulated expression and simplifies the task of discerning functional relevance. although a host of clever chromosomal insertion strategies have been described over the years  the advent of the s. cerevisiae genome deletion project provides an incredible resource for a further streamlined workflow. the strategy  explained by liko et al. on p. 728 is appealingly simple. the genome deletion project resulted in a collection of strains in which a single orf is replaced with a kanamycin resistance module. although the purpose of the collection is to have a comprehensive resource of essentially all possible knockouts  the authors point out that for almost any given yeast promoter of interest there will be a strain in which the orf imm...
4474,tbid induces alterations of mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation flux by malonyl-coa-independent inhibition of carnitine palmitoyltransferase-1,recent studies suggest a close relationship between cell metabolism and apoptosis. we have evaluated changes in lipid metabolism on permeabilized hepatocytes treated with truncated bid (tbid) in the presence of caspase inhibitors and exogenous cytochrome c. the measurement of β-oxidation flux by labeled palmitate demonstrates that tbid inhibits β-oxidation  thereby resulting in the accumulation of palmitoyl-coenzyme a (coa) and depletion of acetyl-carnitine and acylcarnitines  which is pathognomonic for inhibition of carnitine palmitoyltransferase-1 (cpt-1). we also show that tbid decreases cpt-1 activity by a mechanism independent of both malonyl-coa  the key inhibitory molecule of cpt-1  and bak and/or bax  but dependent on cardiolipin decrease. overexpression of bcl-2  which is able to interact with cpt-1  counteracts the effects exerted by tbid on β-oxidation. the unexpected role of tbid in the regulation of lipid β-oxidation suggests a model in which tbid-induced metabolic decline leads to the accumulation of toxic lipid metabolites such as palmitoyl-coa  which might become participants in the apoptotic pathway.
4476,cancer-associated fibroblasts promote hepatocellular carcinoma metastasis through chemokine-activated hedgehog and tgf-β pathways.,fibroblasts are rich in the surrounding microenvironment of hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) because most hccs occur in fibrotic or cirrhotic livers. however  the role of cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs) in hcc metastasis remains obscure. here  we reported that cafs promote the migration and invasion of hcc cells in vitro and facilitate the hcc metastasis to the bone  brain and lung in nod/scid mice. the raybio human chemokine antibody array revealed that cafs secret higher levels of ccl2  ccl5  ccl7 and cxcl16 than peri-tumor fibroblasts. ccl2 and ccl5 increase the migration but not the invasion of hcc cells  while ccl7 and cxcl16 promote both migration and invasion of hcc cells. moreover  ccl2 and ccl5 stimulate the activation of the hedgehog (hh) pathway  while ccl7 and cxcl16 enhance the activity of the transforming growth factor-β (tgf-β) pathway in hcc cells. the neutralizing antibodies of chemokines notably attenuate the effect of cafs on hcc metastasis and compromised the activation of hh and tgf-β pathways in hcc cells. in summary  caf-secreted ccl2  ccl5  ccl7 and cxcl16 promote hcc metastasis through the coordinate activation of hh and tgf-β pathways in hcc cells.
4478,glutathione: overview of its protective roles  measurement  and biosynthesis.,this review is the introduction to a special issue concerning  glutathione (gsh)  the most abundant low molecular weight thiol compound synthesized in cells. gsh plays critical roles in protecting cells from oxidative damage and the toxicity of xenobiotic electrophiles  and maintaining redox homeostasis. here  the functions and gsh and the sources of oxidants and electrophiles  the elimination of oxidants by reduction and electrophiles by conjugation with gsh are briefly described. methods of assessing gsh status in the cells are also described. gsh synthesis and its regulation are addressed along with therapeutic approaches for manipulating gsh content that have been proposed. the purpose here is to provide a brief overview of some of the important aspects of glutathione metabolism as part of this special issue that will provide a more comprehensive review of the state of knowledge regarding this essential molecule.
4480,heterochromatin integrity affects chromosome reorganization after centromere dysfunction.,the centromere is essential for the inheritance of genetic information on eukaryotic chromosomes. epigenetic regulation of centromere identity has been implicated in genome stability  karyotype evolution  and speciation. however  little is known regarding the manner in which centromere dysfunction affects the chromosomal architectures. here we show that in the fission yeast schizosaccharomyces pombe  the conditional deletion of the centromere produces survivors that carry either a neocentromere-acquired chromosome at the subtelomeric region or an acentric chromosome rescued by intertelomere fusion with either of the remaining chromosomes. the ratio of neocentromere formation to telomere fusion is considerably decreased by the inactivation of genes involved in rna interference-dependent heterochromatin formation. by affecting the modes of chromosomal reorganization  the genomic distribution of heterochromatin may influence the fate of karyotype evolution.
4482,neutrophil extracellular traps capture and kill candida albicans yeast and hyphal forms.,neutrophils phagocytose and kill microbes upon phagolysosomal fusion. recently we found that activated neutrophils form extracellular fibres that consist of granule proteins and chromatin. these neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) degrade virulence factors and kill gram positive and negative bacteria. here we show for the first time that candida albicans  a eukaryotic pathogen  induces net-formation and is susceptible to net-mediated killing. c. albicans is the predominant aetiologic agent of fungal infections in humans  particularly in immunocompromised hosts. one major virulence trait of c. albicans is its ability to reversibly switch from singular budding cells to filamentous hyphae. we demonstrate that nets kill both yeast-form and hyphal cells  and that granule components mediate fungal killing. taken together our data indicate that neutrophils trap and kill ascomycetous yeasts by forming nets.
4484,update on technical issues concerning complementary feeding of young children in developing countries and implications for intervention programs.,this paper provides an update to the 1998 who/unicef report on complementary feeding. new research findings are generally consistent with the guidelines in that report  but the adoption of new energy and micronutrient requirements for infants and young children will result in lower recommendations regarding minimum meal frequency and energy density of complementary foods  and will alter the list of "problem nutrients. " without fortification  the densities of iron  zinc  and vitamin b6 in complementary foods are often inadequate  and the intake of other nutrients may also be low in some populations. strategies for obtaining the needed amounts of problem nutrients  as well as optimizing breastmilk intake when other foods are added to the diet  are discussed. the impact of complementary feeding interventions on child growth has been variable  which calls attention to the need for more comprehensive programs. a six-step approach to planning  implementing  and evaluating such programs is recommended.
4486,processing of the beta-amyloid precursor. multiple proteases generate and degrade potentially amyloidogenic fragments.,proteolytic processing of the beta-amyloid precursor proteins (app) is required for release of the beta/a4 protein and its deposition into the amyloid plaques characteristic of aging and alzheimer's disease. we have examined the involvement of acidic intracellular compartments in app processing in cultured human cells. the use of acidotropic agents and inhibitors to a specific class of lysosomal protease  coupled with metabolic labeling and immunoprecipitation  revealed that app is degraded within an acidic compartment to produce at least 12 cooh-terminal fragments. nine likely contain the entire beta/a4 domain and  therefore  are potentially amyloidogenic. treatment with e64 or z-phe-ala-chn2 irreversibly blocked activities of the lysosomal cysteine proteases cathepsins b and l but did not inhibit the lysosomal aspartic protease cathepsin d and did not alter the production of potentially amyloidogenic fragments. instead  the inhibitors prevented further degradation of the fragments. thus  large numbers of potentially amyloidogenic fragments of app are routinely generated in an acidic compartment by noncysteine proteases and then are eliminated within lysosomes by cysteine proteases. immunoblot and immunohistochemical analyses confirmed that chronic cysteine protease inhibition leads to accumulation of potentially amyloidogenic app fragments in lysosomes. the results provide further support for the hypothesis that an acidic compartment may be involved in amyloid formation and begin to define the proteolytic events that may be important for amyloidogenesis.
4488,chronic stress and psychological well-being: evidence from thailand on household crowding.,this paper examines the effect of one form of chronic stress--household crowding--on psychological well-being  as measured by multiple inverse indicators of psychological well-being. we rely on data from a large (n = 2017) random sample of households in bangkok  thailand  a context that has a higher level and broader range of crowding than typically found in the united states. objective household crowding is found to be detrimental to psychological well-being  controlling for a number of background characteristics. the effect of objective crowding is mediated by subjective crowding  which has strong  consistent and direct detrimental effects on well-being. there is no evidence of a gender effect. extended family households are not uncommon in bangkok  but the effects of objective and subjective crowding are similar in both two- and three-generation households  as well as in one- and multiple-couple households. the argument that subjective crowding is an effect  rather than a cause  of psychological well-being is examined and rejected. the findings suggest that crowding  as a chronic source of stress  constitutes a major threat to psychological well-being. although the empirical analyses are based on data from one city  we frame the issue of household crowding in a historical and theoretical context in order to suggest in which cultural settings household crowding is most likely to have detrimental effects on psychological well-being.
4490,amelioration of colitis by genetically engineered murine regulatory t cells redirected by antigen-specific chimeric receptor.,background & aims the therapeutic application of regulatory t cells (tregs) for the treatment of inflammatory diseases is limited by the scarcity of antigen-specific tregs. a preferred approach to endow effector t cells (teff) with a desired specificity uses chimeric immune receptors with antibody-type specificity. accordingly  employing such chimeric immune receptors to redirect tregs to sites of inflammation may be a useful therapeutic approach to alleviate a broad scope of diseases in which an uncontrolled inflammatory response plays a major role. methods to enable application of the approach in clinical setting  which requires the genetic modification of the patient's own tregs  we describe here a novel protocol that allows the efficient retroviral transduction and 2 4 6-trinitrophenol-specific expansion of murine naturally occurring regulatory t cells (ntregs)  with a 2 4 6-trinitrophenol-specific tripartite chimeric receptor. results transduced tregs maintained their foxp3 level  could undergo repeated expansion upon ex vivo encounter with their cognate antigen in a major histocompatibility complex-independent  costimulation-independent  and contact-dependent manner and specifically suppressed teff cells. adoptive transfer of small numbers of the transduced ntregs was associated with antigen-specific  dose-dependent amelioration of trinitrobenzenesulphonic acid colitis. conclusions this study demonstrates that ntregs can be efficiently transduced to express functional  antigen-specific chimeric receptors that enable the specific suppression of effector t cells both in vitro and in vivo. this approach may enable future cell-based therapeutic application in inflammatory bowel disease  as well as other inflammatory disorders.
4492,coordinate regulation of the il-4  il-13  and il-5 cytokine cluster in th2 clones revealed by allelic expression patterns.,the cytokines il-4  il-13  and il-5 are markers for the th2 subset of effector t cells and are often expressed together. these cytokine genes are organized within 140 kb of orthologous dna in both mouse and human. using il-4-expressing cd4+ t cell clones derived from f1 mice  we identified allelic polymorphisms for each of these cytokines and assessed the parental identity of the cytokine mrnas. both monoallelic and biallelic expression occurred for each gene and for an additional gene  il-3  that lies with gm-csf over 450 kb telomeric on the same chromosome. when coexpressed in t cell clones  il-4 was expressed from the same allele as il-13 or il-5 in 81% of instances. in contrast  there was only 52% concordance of these three cytokines at the allelic level among clones that expressed il-3. independent expression of the cytokine alleles occurs commonly in t cells  but the clustered locus encompassing il-4  il-13  and il-5 is subject to coordinate regulation.
4494,effect of hydroxyethyl starch on bleeding after cardiopulmonary bypass: a meta-analysis of randomized trials.,objective the effects of hydroxyethyl starch on bleeding after cardiopulmonary bypass were determined. methods a meta-analysis was performed of postoperative blood loss in randomized clinical trials of hydroxyethyl starch versus albumin for fluid management in adult cardiopulmonary bypass surgery. impacts of hydroxyethyl starch molecular weight and molar substitution were assessed. randomized trials directly comparing different hydroxyethyl starch solutions were also included. results eighteen trials with 970 total patients were included. compared with albumin  hydroxyethyl starch increased postoperative blood loss by 33.3% of a pooled sd (95% confidence interval  18.2%-48.3%; p < .001). risk of reoperation for bleeding was more than doubled by hydroxyethyl starch (relative risk  2.24; 95% confidence interval  1.14-4.40; p = .020). hydroxyethyl starch increased transfusion of red blood cells by 28.4% of a pooled sd (95% confidence interval  12.2%-44.6%; p < .001)  of fresh-frozen plasma by 30.6% (95% confidence interval  8.0%-53.1%; p = .008)  and of platelets by 29.8% (95% confidence interval  3.4%-56.2%; p = .027). none of these effects differed significantly between hydroxyethyl starch 450/0.7 and 200/0.5. insufficient data were available for hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 versus albumin; however  no significant differences were detected in head-to-head comparisons of hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 with 200/0.5. albumin improved hemodynamics. there were no differences in fluid balance  ventilator time  intensive care unit stay  or mortality. conclusions hydroxyethyl starch increased blood loss  reoperation for bleeding  and blood product transfusion after cardiopulmonary bypass. there was no evidence that these risks could be mitigated by lower molecular weight and substitution.
4496,rho  rac and cdc42 regulate actin organization and cell adhesion in macrophages.,rho family proteins are known to regulate actin organization in fibroblasts  but their functions in cells of haematopoietic origin have not been studied in detail. bac1.2f5 cells are a colony-stimulating factor-1 (csf-1)-dependent murine macrophage cell line; csf-1 stimulates their proliferation and motility  and acts as a chemoattractant. csf-1 rapidly induced actin reorganization in bac1 cells: it stimulated the formation of filopodia  lamellipodia and membrane ruffles at the plasma membrane  as well as the appearance of fine actin cables within the cell interior. microinjection of constitutively activated (v12)rac1 stimulated lamellipodium formation and membrane ruffling. the dominant inhibitory rac mutant  n17rac1  inhibited csf-1-induced lamellipodium formation  and also induced cell rounding. v12cdc42 induced the formation of long filopodia  while the dominant inhibitory mutant n17cdc42 prevented csf-1-induced formation of filopodia but not lamellipodia. v14rhoa stimulated actin cable assembly and cell contraction  while the rho inhibitor  c3 transferase  induced the loss of actin cables. bac1 cells had cell-to-substratum adhesion sites containing beta1 integrin  pp125fak  paxillin  vinculin  and tyrosine phosphorylated proteins. these 'focal complexes' were present in growing and csf-1-starved cells  but were disassembled in cells injected with n17cdc42 or n17rac1. interestingly  beta1 integrin did not disperse until long after focal phosphotyrosine and vinculin staining had disappeared. we conclude that in bac1 macrophages cdc42  rac and rho regulate the formation of distinct actin filament-based structures  and that cdc42 and rac are also required for the assembly of adhesion sites to the extracellular matrix.
4498,the effect of mass screening on incidence and mortality of squamous and adenocarcinoma of cervix uteri.,objective to describe the efficacy of the finnish mass screening program for cervical squamous carcinoma and adenocarcinoma  as reflected by changes of incidence and mortality rate. methods cervical cancer incidence and mortality data were obtained from the finnish cancer registry. data were available from the year 1953  when the registry was established. the nationwide mass screening program in finland was started in the mid-1960s. a centralized organization administers this program. women age 30-60 years are notified for screening every 5 years. results the mean incidence of cervical carcinoma in the early 1960s was 15.4 per 10(5) woman-years. in 1991  it was only 2.7 per 10(5) woman-years. the mortality rate has decreased in the same proportion since the mass screening program. in the early 1960s  the mortality was 6.6 and in 1991 1.4 per 10(5) woman-years. however  the decrease of the incidence is seen almost exclusively in squamous cell carcinomas. the mortality caused by adenocarcinoma has decreased in screened birth cohorts  but the incidence rate has remained the same. conclusions the finnish mass screening program has been effective and its continuation is of utmost importance. in the future more attention should be given to glandular cell atypias in cervical smears. thus  it might be possible to decrease the incidence of cervical adenocarcinoma.
4500,effect of interleukin-1 and tumor necrosis factor/cachectin on glucose turnover in the rat.,we studied the effect of recombinant human interleukin-1 beta (il-1) and recombinant human tumor necrosis factor alpha/cachectin (tnf) on glucose kinetics in healthy rats by means of a primed constant infusion of d-(6-3h)glucose and d-[u-14c]glucose. during the isotope (6-hour) and monokine (4-hour) infusion  plasma levels of glucagon and insulin were determined and correlated with changes in glucose metabolism. the rates of glucose appearance (ra) and disappearance (rd) were elevated only with il-1 and were associated with an increase in glucagon and a concomitant decrease in the ratio of insulin to glucagon. plasma glucose concentration was increased early after il-1 administration and coincided with the peak in the ra. the augmentation of the metabolic clearance rate (mcr) and percent of flux oxidized by il-1 suggest that this monokine induces the utilization of glucose as a substrate. tnf administration failed to modify the ra or rd  percent of flux oxidized  or mcr. tnf-treated rats increased the percent of glucose recycling  but not the total rate of glucose production. the results of this experiment suggest that endogenous macrophage products participate in the diverse alterations of carbohydrate metabolism seen during injury and/or infection.
4502,high frequency of p16 (cdkn2/mts-1/ink4a) inactivation in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma.,the tumor suppressor gene p16 (cdkn2/mts-1/ink4a) can be inactivated by multiple genetic mechanisms. we analyzed 29 invasive primary head and neck squamous cell carcinomas (hnscc) for p16 inactivation with immunohistochemistry utilizing a new monoclonal antibody (mab)  dcs-50. p16 staining of the primary lesions was correlated with genetic analysis including: (a) detailed microsatellite analysis of markers at the p16 locus to detect homozygous deletion; (b) sequence analysis of p16; and (c) southern blot analysis to determine the methylation status of the 5' cpg island of p16. twenty-four of 29 (83%) head and neck squamous cell carcinoma tumors displayed an absence of p16 nuclear staining using immunohistochemistry. of these 24 tumors  we found that 16 (67%) harbored homozygous deletions  5 (21%) were methylated  1 displayed a rearrangement at the p16 locus  and 1 displayed a frameshift mutation in exon 1. these data suggest that: (a) inactivation of the p16 tumor suppressor gene is a frequent event in squamous cell carcinomas of the head and neck; (b) p16 is inactivated by several distinct and exclusive events including homozygous deletion  point mutation  and promoter methylation; and (c) immunohistochemical analysis for expression of the p16 gene product is an accurate and relatively simple method for evaluating p16 gene inactivation.
4504,wedelolactone induces growth of breast cancer cells by stimulation of estrogen receptor signalling.,wedelolactone  a plant coumestan  was shown to act as anti-cancer agent for breast and prostate carcinomas in vitro and in vivo targeting multiple cellular proteins including androgen receptors  5-lipoxygenase and topoisomerase iiα. it is cytotoxic to breast  prostate  pituitary and myeloma cancer cell lines in vitro at μm concentrations. in this study  however  a novel biological activity of nm dose of wedelolactone was demonstrated. wedelolactone acts as agonist of estrogen receptors (er) α and β as demonstrated by transactivation of estrogen response element (ere) in cells transiently expressing either erα or erβ and by molecular docking of this coumestan into ligand binding pocket of both erα and erβ. in breast cancer cells  wedelolactone stimulates growth of estrogen receptor-positive cells  expression of estrogen-responsive genes and activates rapid non-genomic estrogen signalling. all these effects can be inhibited by pretreatment with pure er antagonist ici 182 780 and they are not observed in er-negative breast cancer cells. we conclude that wedelolactone acts as phytoestrogen in breast cancer cells by stimulating er genomic and non-genomic signalling pathways.
4506,proteogenomics to discover the full coding content of genomes: a computational perspective.,proteogenomics has emerged as a field at the junction of genomics and proteomics. it is a loose collection of technologies that allow the search of tandem mass spectra against genomic databases to identify and characterize protein-coding genes. proteogenomic peptides provide invaluable information for gene annotation  which is difficult or impossible to ascertain using standard annotation methods. examples include confirmation of translation  reading-frame determination  identification of gene and exon boundaries  evidence for post-translational processing  identification of splice-forms including alternative splicing  and also  prediction of completely novel genes. for proteogenomics to deliver on its promise  however  it must overcome a number of technological hurdles  including speed and accuracy of peptide identification  construction and search of specialized databases  correction of sampling bias  and others. this article reviews the state of the art of the field  focusing on the current successes  and the role of computation in overcoming these challenges. we describe how technological and algorithmic advances have already enabled large-scale proteogenomic studies in many model organisms  including arabidopsis  yeast  fly  and human. we also provide a preview of the field going forward  describing early efforts in tackling the problems of complex gene structures  searching against genomes of related species  and immunoglobulin gene reconstruction.
4508,role of ocular pigment epithelial cells in immune privilege,the ocular microenvironment is both immunosuppressive and anti-inflammatory in nature. pigment epithelial (pe) cells isolated from the eye possess the ability to suppress the t cell receptor-dependent activation of t cells and the induction of regulatory t cells in vitro. this property is dependent on the cells’ capacity to produce cell-surface and soluble inhibitory molecules  for example cd86 (b7-2)  transforming growth factor (tgf)-β  thrombospondin-1  programmed cell death 1 ligand 1 (pd-l1/b7-h1)  and cytotoxic t lymphocyte-associated antigen 2α. cultured ocular pe cells from the iris  ciliary body  and retina can individually suppress t-cell activation via mechanisms that partially overlap. moreover  pe-derived regulatory t cells acquire functions that play a role in establishing immune regulation in the eye. multiple strategies are employed within the eye to control immune-mediated inflammation. this phenomenon is known as immune privilege and is instrumental in helping to prevent extensive damage to bystander cells that would otherwise lead to blindness. this review focuses on the immunosuppressive property and role of ocular pe cells in immune privileged sites.
4510,glutamine-specific n-terminal amidase  a component of the n-end rule pathway.,deamidation of n-terminal gln by nt(q)-amidase  an n-terminal amidohydrolase  is a part of the n-end rule pathway of protein degradation. we detected the activity of nt(q)-amidase  termed ntaq1  in mouse tissues  purified ntaq1 from bovine brains  identified its gene  and began analyzing this enzyme. ntaq1 is highly conserved among animals  plants  and some fungi  but its sequence is dissimilar to sequences of other amidases. an earlier mutant in the drosophila cg8253 gene that we show here to encode nt(q)-amidase has defective long-term memory. other studies identified protein ligands of the uncharacterized human c8orf32 protein that we show here to be the ntaq1 nt(q)-amidase. remarkably  "high-throughput" studies have recently solved the crystal structure of c8orf32 (ntaq1). our site-directed mutagenesis of ntaq1 and its crystal structure indicate that the active site and catalytic mechanism of nt(q)-amidase are similar to those of transglutaminases.
4512,high and low fat consumers  their macronutrient intake and body mass index: further analysis of the national diet and nutrition survey of british adults.,objectives to explore the different characteristics of high and low fat consumers  in particular their macronutrient intake and body mass index. design reanalysis of data from the dietary and nutritional survey of british adults. comparisons were made between groups defined as high and low fat consumers on the basis of 7-day weighed food records considered to be valid for energy intake. individuals were classified in two ways according to the percentage energy from fat (fat%) and the absolute amount of fat consumed (fatg). the criteria for classification of the high fat% being > 45% (high fat) and < or = 35% (low fat). for the fatg group the threshold for the high fat group was > 138 g/day (men) and > 102 g/day (women)  and for the low fat group < 85 g/day (men) and < 70 g/day (women). setting dietary data was collected from private households in great britain between 1986 and 1987. subjects from the total population of 2197  individuals who were slimming  ill or had an ei: bmr of < 1.2 were excluded in order to use data which was most likely to represent habitual energy intakes. from the remaining 1240 subjects  10.8% of this sample (6.1% of the total population) were classified as low fat consumers (76 men and 58 women) and 15.4% high fat (8.7% of the total population  93 men and 98 women). main outcome measures macronutrient consumption and body mass index (bmi). results 30% of the subjects changed fat group classification when the criteria of defining high and low fat groups altered from fat% to fatg. nutrient intakes differed according to definition of the groups. the high fat fatg group ate significantly more of all nutrients than the low fat fatg group. however  this was not seen for the fat% analysis  with the high fat group eating more fat and less carbohydrate. the average bmi tended to be higher in the high fat than the low fat groups  particularly in the fatg analysis. however  the high fat group contained a wide range of bmis. further exploration of bmi in the high fat groups  showed that age (an 11-year difference) was the only variable to distinguish individuals in the top and bottom quartiles of bmi. conclusions high and low fat consumers differ according to a number of variables  and this is affected by how these groups are defined (fat% or fatg). high fat consumers tend to have a higher bmi than low fat consumers  but not all high fat consumers are overweight or obese.
4514,the murine h19 gene is activated during embryonic stem cell differentiation in vitro and at the time of implantation in the developing embryo.,the differentiation in vitro of murine embryonic stem cells to embryoid bodies mimics events that occur in vivo shortly before and after embryonic implantation. we have used this system  together with differential cdna cloning  to identify genes the expression of which is regulated during early embryogenesis. here we describe the isolation of several such cdna clones  one of which corresponds to the gene h19. this gene is activated in extraembryonic cell types at the time of implantation  suggesting that it may play a role at this stage of development  and is subsequently expressed in all of the cells of the mid-gestation embryo with the striking exception of most of those of the developing central and peripheral nervous systems. after birth  expression of this gene ceases or is dramatically reduced in all tissues.
4516,optogenetics reveal delayed afferent synaptogenesis on grafted human-induced pluripotent stem cell-derived neural progenitors.,reprogramming of somatic cells into pluripotency stem cell state has opened new opportunities in cell replacement therapy and disease modeling in a number of neurological disorders. it still remains unknown  however  to what degree the grafted human-induced pluripotent stem cells (hipscs) differentiate into a functional neuronal phenotype and if they integrate into the host circuitry. here  we present a detailed characterization of the functional properties and synaptic integration of hipsc-derived neurons grafted in an in vitro model of hyperexcitable epileptic tissue  namely organotypic hippocampal slice cultures (ohscs)  and in adult rats in vivo. the hipscs were first differentiated into long-term self-renewing neuroepithelial stem (lt-nes) cells  which are known to form primarily gabaergic neurons. when differentiated in ohscs for 6 weeks  lt-nes cell-derived neurons displayed neuronal properties such as tetrodotoxin-sensitive sodium currents and action potentials (aps)  as well as both spontaneous and evoked postsynaptic currents  indicating functional afferent synaptic inputs. the grafted cells had a distinct electrophysiological profile compared to host cells in the ohscs with higher input resistance  lower resting membrane potential  and aps with lower amplitude and longer duration. to investigate the origin of synaptic afferents to the grafted lt-nes cell-derived neurons  the host neurons were transduced with channelrhodopsin-2 (chr2) and optogenetically activated by blue light. simultaneous recordings of synaptic currents in grafted lt-nes cell-derived neurons using whole-cell patch-clamp technique at 6 weeks after grafting revealed limited synaptic connections from host neurons. longer differentiation times  up to 24 weeks after grafting in vivo  revealed more mature intrinsic properties and extensive synaptic afferents from host neurons to the lt-nes cell-derived neurons  suggesting that these cells require extended time for differentiation/maturation and synaptogenesis. however  even at this later time point  the grafted cells maintained a higher input resistance. these data indicate that grafted lt-nes cell-derived neurons receive ample afferent input from the host brain. since the lt-nes cells used in this study show a strong propensity for gabaergic differentiation  the host-to-graft synaptic afferents may facilitate inhibitory neurotransmitter release  and normalize hyperexcitable neuronal networks in brain diseases  for example  such as epilepsy.
4518,establishment and in vitro differentiation of a new embryonic stem cell line from human blastocyst.,embryonic stem cells have the ability to remain undifferentiated and proliferate indefinitely in vitro while maintaining the potential to differentiate into derivatives of all three embryonic germ layers. these cells have  therefore  potential for in vitro differentiation studies  gene function  and so on. the aim of this study was to produce a human embryonic stem cell line. an inner cell mass of a human blastocyst was separated and cultured on mouse embryonic fibroblasts in embryonic stem cell medium with related additives. the established line was evaluated by morphology; passaging; freezing and thawing; alkaline phosphatase; oct-4 expression; anti-surface markers including tra-1-60 and tra-1-81; and karyotype and spontaneous differentiation. differentiated cardiomyocytes and neurons were evaluated by transmission electron microscopy and immunocytochemistry. here  we report the derivation of a new embryonic stem cell line (royan h1) from a human blastocyst that remains undifferentiated in morphology during continuous passaging for more than 30 passages  maintains a normal xx karyotype  is viable after freezing and thawing  and expresses alkaline phosphatase  oct-4  tra-1-60  and tra-1-81. these cells remain undifferentiated when grown on mouse embryonic fibroblast feeder layers in the presence or absence of recombinant human leukemia inhibitory factor. royan h1 cells can differentiate in vitro in the absence of feeder cells and can produce embryoid bodies that can further differentiate into beating cardiomyocytes as well as neurons. these results define royan h1 cells as a new human embryonic stem cell line.
4520,increased lipid peroxidation as a mechanism of methionine-induced atherosclerosis in rabbits.,methionine is converted by the transmethylation/transsulfuration pathway to homocysteine which may exert atherogenic effects by several mechanisms  including lipid peroxidation. therefore  the excessive dietary methionine may induce the development of atherosclerosis. to test this hypothesis  plasma and aortic thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (tbars)  as well as activities of aortic and erythrocyte superoxide dismutase (sod)  catalase and selenium-dependent glutathione peroxidase (gpx) were measured in rabbits fed a diet enriched with 0.3% methionine for 6 or 9 months. histological examinations of aortas also were performed. feeding rabbits a methionine-enriched diet for 6 or 9 months resulted in significant increases in plasma and aortic tbars levels and aortic antioxidant enzyme activities. however  a decrease in plasma antioxidant activity (aoa) was observed. in erythrocytes  sod activity increased  catalase remained normal and gpx decreased in the treated animals. histological examination of aortas showed typical atherosclerotic changes  such as intimal thickening  deposition of cholesterol  and calcification in methionine-fed rabbits. these results confirm that high-methionine diet may induce atherosclerosis in rabbits and indicate disturbances in lipid peroxidation and antioxidant processes as possible mechanisms of its atherogenic influence.
4522,genome architecture  rearrangements and genomic disorders.,an increasing number of human diseases are recognized to result from recurrent dna rearrangements involving unstable genomic regions. these are termed genomic disorders  in which the clinical phenotype is a consequence of abnormal dosage of gene(s) located within the rearranged genomic fragments. both inter- and intrachromosomal rearrangements are facilitated by the presence of region-specific low-copy repeats (lcrs) and result from nonallelic homologous recombination (nahr) between paralogous genomic segments. lcrs usually span approximately 10-400 kb of genomic dna  share >or= 97% sequence identity  and provide the substrates for homologous recombination  thus predisposing the region to rearrangements. moreover  it has been suggested that higher order genomic architecture involving lcrs plays a significant role in karyotypic evolution accompanying primate speciation.
4524,scoring of dual fluorescein and icg inflammatory angiographic signs for the grading of posterior segment inflammation (dual fluorescein and icg angiographic scoring system for uveitis),purpose to propose a semiquantitative dual fluorescein angiography (fa) and indocyanine green angiography (icga) scoring system for uveitis that would assist in the follow-up of disease progression and monitoring response to treatment. methods the scoring system was based on the fa scoring systems  the standardized icga protocol  and schematic interpretation of icga findings in posterior uveitis that have been previously published. we assigned scores to the fluorescein and icg angiographic signs that represent ongoing inflammatory process in the posterior segment. we rated each angiographic sign according to the impact it has on our appreciation of active intraocular inflammation. in order to permit direct comparison between fa and icga  we multiplied the total icga score by a coefficient of 2 to adjust to the total score of fa. results a total maximum score of 40 was assigned to the fa signs  including optic disc hyperfluorescence  macular edema  retinal vascular staining and/or leakage  capillary leakage  retinal capillary nonperfusion  neovascularization of the optic disc  neovascularization elsewhere  pinpoint leaks  and retinal staining and/or subretinal pooling. a total maximum score of 20 was assigned to the icga signs  including early stromal vessel hyperfluorescence  choroidal vasculitis  dark dots or areas (excluding atrophy)  and optic disc hyperfluorescence. conclusion the combined fluorescein and icg angiographic scoring system proposed herein may help estimate the magnitude of retinal versus choroidal inflammation  monitor disease progression and response to treatment  and provide comparable data for clinical studies. the applicability of the proposed system needs to be tested in clinical settings  and intra- and interobserver variations need to be determined.
4526,a screen for endocytic motifs,sorting signals for cargo selection into coated vesicles are usually in the form of short linear motifs. three motifs for clathrin-mediated endocytosis have been identified: yxxphi  [d/e]xxxl[l/i] and fxnpxy. to search for new endocytic motifs  we made a library of cd8 chimeras with random sequences in their cytoplasmic tails  and used a novel fluorescence-activated cell sorting (facs)-based assay to select for endocytosed constructs. out of the five tails that were most efficiently internalized  only one was found to contain a conventional motif. two contain dileucine-like sequences that appear to be variations on the [d/e]xxxl[l/i] motif. another contains a novel internalization signal  yxxxphin  which is able to function in cells expressing a mutant mu2 that cannot bind yxxphi  indicating that it is not a variation on the yxxphi motif. similar sequences are present in endogenous proteins  including a functional yxxxphin (in addition to a classical yxxphi) in cytotoxic t-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (ctla-4). thus  the repertoire of endocytic motifs is more extensive than the three well-characterized sorting signals.
4528,histone tails: directing the chromatin response to dna damage.,considerable energetic investment is devoted to altering large stretches of chromatin adjacent to dna double strand breaks (dsbs). immediately ensuing dsb formation  a myriad of histone modifications are elicited to create a platform for inducible and modular assembly of dna repair protein complexes in the vicinity of the dna lesion. this complex signaling network is critical to repair dna damage and communicate with cellular processes that occur in cis and in trans to the genomic lesion. failure to properly execute dna damage inducible chromatin changes is associated with developmental abnormalities  immunodeficiency  and malignancy in humans and in genetically engineered mouse models. this review will discuss current knowledge of dna damage responsive histone changes that occur in mammalian cells  highlighting their involvement in the maintenance of genome integrity.
4530,the non-catalytic function of xpg protein during dual incision in human nucleotide excision repair.,xpg is a member of the fen-1 structure-specific endonuclease family. it has 3'-junction cutting activity on bubble substrates and makes the 3'-incision in the human dual incision (excision nuclease) repair system. to investigate the precise role of xpg in nucleotide excision repair  we mutagenized two amino acid residues thought to be involved in dna binding and catalysis  overproduced the mutant proteins using a baculovirus/insect cell system  and purified and characterized the mutant proteins. the mutation d77a had a modest effect on junction cutting and excision activity and gave rise to uncoupled 5'-incision by mammalian cell-free extracts. the d812a mutation completely abolished the junction cutting and 3'-incision activities of xpg  but the excision nuclease reconstituted with xpg (d812a) carried out normal 5'-incision at the 23rd-24th phosphodiester bonds 5' to a (6-4) photoproduct without producing any 3'-incision. it is concluded that asp-812 is an active site residue of xpg and that in addition to making the 3'-incision  the physical presence of xpg in the protein-dna complex is required non-catalytically for subsequent 5'-incision by xpf-ercc1.
4532,bile acids: natural ligands for an orphan nuclear receptor.,bile acids regulate the transcription of genes that control cholesterol homeostasis through molecular mechanisms that are poorly understood. physiological concentrations of free and conjugated chenodeoxycholic acid  lithocholic acid  and deoxycholic acid activated the farnesoid x receptor (fxr; nr1h4)  an orphan nuclear receptor. as ligands  these bile acids and their conjugates modulated interaction of fxr with a peptide derived from steroid receptor coactivator 1. these results provide evidence for a nuclear bile acid signaling pathway that may regulate cholesterol homeostasis.
4534,derivation conditions impact x-inactivation status in female human induced pluripotent stem cells.,female human induced pluripotent stem cell (hipsc) lines exhibit variability in x-inactivation status. the majority of hipsc lines maintain one transcriptionally active x (xa) and one inactive x (xi) chromosome from donor cells. however  at low frequency  hipsc lines with two xas are produced  suggesting that epigenetic alterations of the xi occur sporadically during reprogramming. we show here that x-inactivation status in female hipsc lines depends on derivation conditions. hipsc lines generated by the kyoto method (retroviral or episomal reprogramming)  which uses leukemia inhibitory factor (lif)-expressing snl feeders  frequently had two xas. early passage xa/xi hipsc lines generated on non-snl feeders were converted into xa/xa hipsc lines after several passages on snl feeders  and supplementation with recombinant lif caused reactivation of some of x-linked genes. thus  feeders are a significant factor affecting x-inactivation status. the efficient production of xa/xa hipsc lines provides unprecedented opportunities to understand human x-reactivation and -inactivation.
4536,estimation of the dietary requirement for vitamin d in healthy adults.,background knowledge gaps have contributed to considerable variation among international dietary recommendations for vitamin d.   objective we aimed to establish the distribution of dietary vitamin d required to maintain serum 25-hydroxyvitamin d [25(oh)d] concentrations above several proposed cutoffs (ie  25  37.5  50  and 80 nmol/l) during wintertime after adjustment for the effect of summer sunshine exposure and diet. design a randomized  placebo-controlled  double-blind 22-wk intervention study was conducted in men and women aged 20-40 y (n = 238) by using different supplemental doses (0  5  10  and 15 microg/d) of vitamin d(3) throughout the winter. serum 25(oh)d concentrations were measured by using enzyme-linked immunoassay at baseline (october 2006) and endpoint (march 2007). results there were clear dose-related increments (p < 0.0001) in serum 25(oh)d with increasing supplemental vitamin d(3). the slope of the relation between vitamin d intake and serum 25(oh)d was 1.96 nmol x l(-1) x microg(-1) intake. the vitamin d intake that maintained serum 25(oh)d concentrations of >25 nmol/l in 97.5% of the sample was 8.7 microg/d. this intake ranged from 7.2 microg/d in those who enjoyed sunshine exposure  8.8 microg/d in those who sometimes had sun exposure  and 12.3 microg/d in those who avoided sunshine. vitamin d intakes required to maintain serum 25(oh)d concentrations of >37.5  >50  and >80 nmol/l in 97.5% of the sample were 19.9  28.0  and 41.1 microg/d  respectively. conclusion the range of vitamin d intakes required to ensure maintenance of wintertime vitamin d status [as defined by incremental cutoffs of serum 25(oh)d] in the vast majority (>97.5%) of 20-40-y-old adults  considering a variety of sun exposure preferences  is between 7.2 and 41.1 microg/d.
4538,polyphenols of cocoa: inhibition of mammalian 15-lipoxygenase,abstract some cocoas and chocolates are rich in ()epicatechin and its related oligomers  the procyanidins. fractions of these compounds  isolated from the seeds of theobroma cacao  caused dosedependent inhibition of isolated rabbit 15-lipoxygenase-1 with the larger oligomers being more active; the decamer fraction revealed an ic 50 of 0.8 m. among the monomeric flavanols  epigallocatechin gallate (ic 50 = 4 m) and epicatechin gallate (5 m) were more potent than ()epicatechin (ic50 = 60 m). ()epicatechin and procyanidin nonamer also inhibited the formation of 15-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid from arachidonic acid in rabbit smooth muscle cells transfected with human 15-lipoxygenase-1. in contrast  inhibition of the lipoxygenase pathway in j774a.1 cells transfected with porcine leukocytetype 12- lipoxygenase (another representative of the 12/15- lipoxygenase family) was only observed upon sonication of the cells  suggesting a membrane barrier for flavanols in these cells. moreover  epicatechin (ic50 approx. 15 m) and the procyanidin decamer inhibited recombinant human platelet 12-lipoxygenase. these observations suggest general lipoxygenase inhibitory potency of flavanols and procyanidins that may contribute to their putative beneficial effects on the cardiovascular system in man. thus  they may provide a plausible explanation for recent literature reports indicating that procyanidins decrease the leukotriene/prostacyclin ratio in humans and human aortic endothelial cells.
4540,regional vascular resistance during exercise: role of cardiac afferents and exercise training.,this study was designed to determine whether cardiac vagal afferents exert an inhibitory influence on increases in regional vascular resistance during exercise and to determine whether endurance exercise training enhances the inhibitory influence of cardiac vagal afferents. we measured changes in regional vascular resistance in 12 rabbits at rest and during running at 12.6 m/min  20% grade  before and after reversible denervation of cardiac afferents (intrapericardial procainamide hcl  2%). in addition  these procedures were repeated in five of these rabbits following an 8-wk endurance exercise training program. because intrapericardial injections of procainamide anesthetize both the efferent as well as the afferent innervation to the heart  it was necessary to determine the effects of blocking the efferent innervation on the regulation of regional vascular resistance during exercise. rabbits were instrumented with doppler ultrasonic flow probes around the renal (r)  mesenteric (m)  ascending  and terminal aortic (ta) arteries. catheters were positioned in the central ear artery and vein and pericardial sac. mean arterial pressure  heart rate  cardiac output  r  m  ta  and systemic (s) resistances were determined. exercise changed r (+37 +/- 4%)  m (+88 +/- 9%)  ta (-62 +/- 6%)  and s (-34 +/- 3) resistances. subsequent cardiac efferent blockade alone had no significant effect on regional vascular resistance during exercise. combined efferent and afferent blockade resulted in significant increases in r (+62 +/- 6%) and m resistance (+134 +/- 13%) but did not alter ta (-51 +/- 4%) or s (-27 +/- 2%) resistance during exercise. exercise training significantly enhanced the inhibitory influence of cardiac afferents on r and m regional vascular resistance.(abstract truncated at 250 words)
4542,topical application of chlorhexidine to neonatal umbilical cords for prevention of omphalitis and neonatal mortality in a rural district of pakistan: a community-based  cluster-randomised trial.,background umbilical cord infection (omphalitis) is a risk factor for neonatal sepsis and mortality in low-resource settings where home deliveries are common. we aimed to assess the effect of umbilical-cord cleansing with 4% chlorhexidine (chx) solution  with or without handwashing with antiseptic soap  on the incidence of omphalitis and neonatal mortality. methods we did a two-by-two factorial  cluster-randomised trial in dadu  a rural area of sindh province  pakistan. clusters were defined as the population covered by a functional traditional birth attendant (tba)  and were randomly allocated to one of four groups (groups a to d) with a computer-generated random number sequence. implementation and data collection teams were masked to allocation. liveborn infants delivered by participating tbas who received birth kits were eligible for enrolment in the study. one intervention comprised birth kits containing 4% chx solution for application to the cord at birth by tbas and once daily by family members for up to 14 days along with soap and educational messages promoting handwashing. one intervention was chx solution only and another was handwashing only. standard dry cord care was promoted in the control group. the primary outcomes were incidence of neonatal omphalitis and neonatal mortality. the trial is registered with clinicaltrials.gov  number nct00682006. findings 187 clusters were randomly allocated to one of the four study groups. of 9741 newborn babies delivered by participating tbas  factorial analysis indicated a reduction in risk of omphalitis with chx application (risk ratio [rr]=0·58  95% ci 0·41-0·82; p=0·002) but no evidence of an effect of handwashing (rr=0·83  0·61-1·13; p=0·24). we recorded strong evidence of a reduction in neonatal mortality in neonates who received chx cleansing (rr=0·62  95 % ci 0·45-0·85; p=0·003) but no evidence of an effect of handwashing promotion on neonatal mortality (rr=1·08  0·79-1·48; p=0·62). we recorded no serious adverse events. interpretation application of 4% chx to the umbilical cord was effective in reducing the risk of omphalitis and neonatal mortality in rural pakistan. provision of chx in birth kits might be a useful strategy for the prevention of neonatal mortality in high-mortality settings. funding the united states agency for international development.
4544,cognitive predictors of young children's readiness for powered mobility.,independent mobility in early childhood has been associated with the development of various cognitive and psychosocial skills. however  children with physical disabilities are not always able to move independently and may be at risk for delays in these areas. early provision of powered mobility can offer young children an opportunity for independent mobility. despite this  there is little information to help determine when a young child has the cognitive skills necessary to operate a powered wheelchair safely. this current research aims to identify these skills. a cognitive assessment battery and a wheelchair mobility training and assessment program were developed. twenty-six children with physical disabilities between the ages of 20 and 36 months were evaluated on the cognitive assessment and participated in the wheelchair training and assessment program. a stepwise regression analysis was used to determine which of the cognitive skills predicted wheelchair mobility performance. the cognitive domains of spatial relations and problem solving were found to be significant and accounted for 57% of the variance in wheelchair skills. developmental cut-off points on these scales as they relate to wheelchair skills are presented and clinical applications are discussed.
4546,b-cell self-tolerance in humans.,two mechanisms account for generation of the human antibody repertoire; v(d)j recombination during the early stages of b-cell development in the bone marrow and somatic mutation of immunoglobulin genes in mature b cells responding to antigen in the periphery. v(d)j recombination produces diversity by random joining of gene segments and somatic mutation by introducing random point mutations. both are required to attain the degree of antigen receptor diversification that is necessary for immune protection: defects in either mechanism are associated with increased susceptibility to infection. however  the downside of producing enormous random diversity in the antibody repertoire is the generation of autoantibodies. to prevent autoimmunity b cells expressing autoantibodies are regulated by strict mechanisms that either modify the specificity of autoantibodies or the fate of cells expressing such antibodies. abnormalities in b-cell self-tolerance are associated with a large number of autoimmune diseases  but the precise nature of the defects is less well defined. here we summarize recent data on the self-reactive b-cell repertoire in healthy humans and in patients with autoimmunity.
4548,spread of chloroquine resistance in plasmodium falciparum.,malaria resistant to chloroquine has now been confirmed in more than 40 countries. the drug was introduced in 1934  but was not in large-scale use until the early 1950s. anecdotal reports suggest that resistance emerged as early as 1957 both in colombia and along the then cambodia-thailand border area. but by 1960  resistance in these areas was confirmed - and may represent two separate events. resistance spread rapidly  with a new focus of resistance confirmed in east africa by 1977. chloroquine resistance represents a severe problem both for prophylaxis and treatment of malaria. in this aricle  david payne traces the spread of resistance and discusses some of its implications.
4550,lipid metabolism and toxicity in the heart.,the heart has both the greatest caloric needs and the most robust oxidation of fatty acids (fas). under pathological conditions such as obesity and type 2 diabetes  cardiac uptake and oxidation are not balanced and hearts accumulate lipid potentially leading to cardiac lipotoxicity. we will first review the pathways utilized by the heart to acquire fas from the circulation and to store triglyceride intracellularly. then we will describe mouse models in which excess lipid accumulation causes heart dysfunction and experiments performed to alleviate this toxicity. finally  the known relationships between heart lipid metabolism and dysfunction in humans will be summarized.
4552,ci-994 (n-acetyl-dinaline) in combination with conventional anti-cancer agents is effective against acute myeloid leukemia in vitro and in vivo.,n-acetyl-dinaline (ci-994) is an investigational anti-cancer drug which inhibits histone deacetylases. we evaluated the interaction between ci-994 and conventional chemotherapeutics used in acute myeloid leukemia (aml) in a rat model for aml and brown norway rat acute myelocytic leukemia (bnml). in vitro  ci-994 in combination with cytarabine (ara-c)  daunorubicin and mitoxantrone  resulted in moderate synergism. in vivo  higher dosages of ci-994 induced complete remissions. ci-994/ara-c was very active against bnml. the combinations of ci-994/daunorubicin and ci-994/mitoxantrone were also active against bnml. this study demonstrates favorable in vitro and in vivo interactions between ci-994 and conventional anti-cancer agents used for the treatment of aml.
4554,melatonin synthesized by t lymphocytes as a ligand of the retinoic acid-related orphan receptor.,melatonin modulates a wide array of physiological events with pleiotropic effects on the immune system. while the relevance of specific melatonin membrane receptors has been well established for several biological functions  retinoic acid-related orphan receptor alpha (rorα) has been suggested as a mediator of nuclear melatonin signalling by results obtained from pharmacological approaches. however  a melatonin-mediated downstream effect cannot be ruled out  and further evidence is needed to support a direct interaction between melatonin and rorα. here  we show that rorα is mainly located in human jurkat t-cell nucleus  and it is co-immunoprecipitated with melatonin. moreover  immunocytochemistry studies confirmed the co-localization of melatonin and rorα. melatonin promoted a time-dependent decrease in nuclear rorα levels  suggesting a role in the rorα transcriptional activity. interestingly  rorα acts as a molecular switch implicated in the mutually exclusive generation of th17 and treg cells  both involved in the harm/protection balance of immune conditions such as autoimmunity or acute transplant rejection. therefore  the identification of melatonin as a natural modulator of rorα gives it a tremendous therapeutic potential for a variety of clinical disorders.
4556,the cryoprotective effect of trehalose supplementation on boar spermatozoa quality.,in order to improve boar sperm quality during frozen-thawed process  the influence of the presence of trehalose on success of cryopreservation of boar sperm were investigated. we evaluated freeze-thawing tolerance of boar spermatozoa in a base cooling extender with the addition of different trehalose concentrations (0  25  50  100 and 200mmol/l)  and tried to determine the optimum concentration of trehalose. we chose sperm motility  acrosome integrity  membrane integrity and cryocapacitation as parameters to evaluate cryopreservation capacity of boar spermatozoa. we obtained the best results for 100mmol/l trehalose-supplemented extenders  with values of 49.89% for motility  66.52% for acrosome integrity and 44.61% for membrane integrity  while freeze-thawing tolerance was diminished significantly for 200mmol/l of trehalose. before and after capacitation  the ctc score for semen diluted by extender containing 100mmol/l trehalose was 3.68% and 43.82%  respectively. in conclusion  trehalose could confer a greater cryoprotective capacity to boar spermatozoa. trehalose-supplementation with 100mmol/l concentration in basic extender could significantly improve sperm motility  membrane integrity and acrosome integrity parameters  and reduce boar spermatozoa cryocapacitation during the cryopreservation process.
4558,central memory and effector memory t cell subsets: function  generation  and maintenance.,the memory t cell pool functions as a dynamic repository of antigen-experienced t lymphocytes that accumulate over the lifetime of the individual. recent studies indicate that memory t lymphocytes contain distinct populations of central memory (tcm) and effector memory (tem) cells characterized by distinct homing capacity and effector function. this review addresses the heterogeneity of tcm and tem  their differentiation stages  and the current models for their generation and maintenance in humans and mice.
4560,do montelukast sodium and n-acetylcysteine have a nephroprotective effect on unilateral ureteral obstruction? a placebo controlled trial in a rat model.,purpose we assessed the nephroprotective effects of montelukast sodium and n-acetylcysteine on secondary renal damage due to unilateral ureteral obstruction in a rat model. materials and methods in this study 30 wistar albino male rats were randomized into 3 groups  including placebo  n-acetylcysteine and montelukast sodium. three rats served as the control group. the left ureter of the rats was sutured with 4-zero polyglactin sutures. medications were given 3 days before obstruction and continued for 15 days. dimercaptosuccinic acid renal scintigraphy was performed before obstruction and on day 15. rats were sacrificed on day 15 and histopathological examinations were done. we biochemically assessed oxidative stress markers (myeloperoxidase and malondialdehyde)  sulfhydryl and total nitrite for lipid peroxidation  oxidative protein damage and antioxidant levels  respectively. results on pathological examination inflammation and tubular epithelial damage in the n-acetylcysteine and montelukast sodium groups were less than in the placebo group (p <0.05). no difference was seen in normal kidneys. myeloperoxidase  malondialdehyde and total nitrite levels in the n-acetylcysteine group  and myeloperoxidase and malondialdehyde levels in the montelukast sodium group were lower than in the placebo group (p <0.05). no statistical difference was seen in sulfhydryl levels (p >0.05) or among the n-acetylcysteine  montelukast sodium and placebo groups on scintigraphy (p >0.05). no pathological  chemical and scintigraphic differences were seen among the n-acetylcysteine  montelukast sodium and sham treated groups (p >0.05). conclusions n-acetylcysteine and montelukast sodium have a protective effect against obstructive damage of the kidney. however  further investigations are needed.
4562,familial gastroesophageal reflux and development of barrett's esophagus.,the family of an elderly man with barrett's esophagus was examined for gastroesophageal reflux and development of barrett's esophagus. all five living children have gastroesophageal reflux or esophagitis  or both  and three have unequivocal barrett's esophagus. two third-generation descendents have gastroesophageal reflux. this pattern suggests autosomal dominant transmission of the gastroesophageal reflux trait. the family also has a high prevalence of cancer  which may represent the cancer family syndrome.
4564,on the origin and impact of mesenchymal stem cell heterogeneity: new insights and emerging tools for single cell analysis.,mesenchymal stem cells (mscs) display substantial cell-to-cell variation. this heterogeneity manifests among donors  among tissue sources  and within cell populations. such pervasive variability complicates the use of mscs in regenerative applications and may limit their therapeutic efficacy. most conventional assays measure msc properties in bulk and  as a consequence  mask this cell-to-cell variation. recent studies have identified extensive variability amongst and within clonal msc populations  in dimensions including functional differentiation capacity  molecular state (e.g. epigenetic  transcriptomic  and proteomic status)  and biophysical properties. while the origins of these variations remain to be elucidated  potential mechanisms include in vivo micro-anatomical heterogeneity  epigenetic bistability  and transcriptional fluctuations. emerging tools for single cell analysis of msc gene and protein expression may yield further insight into the mechanisms and implications of single cell variation amongst these cells  and ultimately improve the clinical utility of mscs in tissue engineering and regenerative medicine applications. this review outlines the dimensions across which msc heterogeneity is present  defines some of the known mechanisms that govern this heterogeneity  and highlights emerging technologies that may further refine our understanding and improve our clinical application of this unique cell type.
4566,apoptosis occurs predominantly in bystander cells and not in productively infected cells of hiv- and siv-infected lymph nodes,although 13 years have passed since identification of human immunodeficiency virus-1 (hiv-1) as the cause of aids  we do not yet know how hiv kills its primary target  the t cell that carries the cd4 antigen. we and others have shown an increase in the percentage of apoptotic cells among circulating cd4+ (and cd8+) t cells of hiv-seropositive individuals and an increase in frequency of apoptosis with disease progression. however  it is not known if this apoptosis occurs in infected or uninfected t cells. we show here  using in situ labelling of lymph nodes from hiv-infected children and siv-infected macaques  that apoptosis occurs predominantly in bystander cells and not in the productively infected cells themselves. these data have implications for pathogenesis and therapy  namely  arguing that rational drug therapy may involve combination agents targeting viral replication in infected cells and apoptosis of uninfected cells.
4568,pregnancy characteristics and maternal risk of breast cancer.,context during pregnancy  serum levels of estrogen  progesterone  and other hormones are markedly higher than during other periods of life. pregnancy hormones primarily are produced in the placenta  and signs of placental impairment may serve as indirect markers of hormone exposures during pregnancy. during pregnancy  these markers have been inconsistently associated with subsequent risk of breast cancer in the mother. objective to examine associations between indirect markers of hormonal exposures  such as placental weight and other pregnancy characteristics  and maternal risk of developing breast cancer. design and setting population-based cohort study using data from the swedish birth register  the swedish cancer register  the swedish cause of death register  and the swedish register of population and population changes. participants women included in the sweden birth register who delivered singletons between 1982 and 1989  with complete information on date of birth and gestational age. women were followed up until the occurrence of breast cancer  death  or end of follow-up (december 31  2001). cox proportional hazards models were used to estimate associations between hormone exposures and risks of breast cancer. main outcome measure incidence of invasive breast cancer. results of 314 019 women in the cohort  2216 (0.7%) developed breast cancer during the follow-up through 2001  of whom 2100 (95%) were diagnosed before age 50 years. compared with women who had placentas weighing less than 500 g in 2 consecutive pregnancies  the risk of breast cancer was increased among women whose placentas weighed between 500 and 699 g in their first pregnancy and at least 700 g in their second pregnancy (or vice versa) (adjusted hazard ratio  1.82; 95% confidence interval [ci]  1.07-3.08)  and the corresponding risk was doubled among women whose placentas weighed at least 700 g in both pregnancies (adjusted hazard ratio  2.05; 95% ci  1.15-3.64). a high birth weight (> or =4000 g) in 2 successive births was associated with an increased risk of breast cancer before but not after adjusting for placental weight and other covariates (adjusted hazard ratio  1.10; 95% ci  0.76-1.59). conclusions placental weight is positively associated with maternal risk of breast cancer. these results further support the hypothesis that pregnancy hormones are important modifiers of subsequent maternal breast cancer risk.
4570,antiapoptotic bcl-2 is required for maintenance of a model leukemia.,resistance to apoptosis  often achieved by the overexpression of antiapoptotic proteins  is common and perhaps required in the genesis of cancer. however  it remains uncertain whether apoptotic defects are essential for tumor maintenance. to test this  we generated mice expressing a conditional bcl-2 gene and constitutive c-myc that develop lymphoblastic leukemia. eliminating bcl-2 yielded rapid loss of leukemic cells and significantly prolonged survival  formally validating bcl-2 as a rational target for cancer therapy. loss of this single molecule resulted in cell death  despite or perhaps attributable to the presence of other oncogenic events. this suggests a generalizable model in which aberrations inherent to cancer generate tonic death signals that would otherwise kill the cell if not opposed by a requisite apoptotic defect(s).
4572,angiogenesis therapy: amidst the hype  the neglected potential for serious side effects.,although essentially unknown as a therapeutic concept as recently as a decade ago  it is difficult now to open a cardiology journal  attend a cardiology meeting  or scan a newspaper without being caught up in the excitement generated by the thought that angiogenesis therapy may soon have a major impact on the treatment of patients with atherosclerotic lesions obstructing arteries that supply the myocardium or legs. potent therapeutic interventions  however  are rarely free of at least the potential for causing harmful effects. angiogenesis therapy is no exception. despite this and despite the fact that the only reasonably powered  randomized  double-blind clinical studies to date have failed to demonstrate primary end-point efficacy 1 thoughtful consideration of the serious side effects that might accompany any therapeutic benefit has been largely missing from scientific communications. for the lay media  a switch from this unbounded enthusiasm to profound skepticism occurred recently after a report of the tragic death of a young man caused by injection of large amounts of an adenoviral vector into the hepatic artery (unrelated to angiogenesis therapy).2 for the scientific community  however  there has been a general lack of in-depth discussion of the potential dangers inherent in angiogenesis interventions. such a discussion is appropriate not only because of the event cited above but also because considerable mechanistic data are available that actually permit us to identify specific side effects that we might anticipate as potential complications of angiogenesis therapy. the following therefore is a discussion of potential complications based predominantly on our knowledge of the underlying biological activities of 2 of the most potent angiogenic cytokines  vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) and fibroblast growth factor (fgf). angiogenic agents are thought to have the potential to induce neovascularization in many different tissues. this becomes important in that under clinical circumstances it …
4574,characteristics of medial temporal lobe epilepsy: ii. interictal and ictal scalp electroencephalography  neuropsychological testing  neuroimaging  surgical results  and pathology.,sixty-seven patients with temporal lobe epilepsy without circumscribed  potentially epileptogenic lesions  who were studied with intracranial electrodes and who became seizure free following temporal lobectomy were retrospectively evaluated with regard to preoperative scalp electroencephalographic (eeg) findings  neuropsychological test results  neuroimaging findings  results of surgery  and pathology of resected tissue. interictal scalp eeg showed paroxysmal abnormalities during prolonged monitoring in 64 patients (96%). these were localized in the anterior temporal region in 60 (94%) of these 64 patients. bilateral independent paroxysmal activity occurred in 42% of the patients and was preponderant over the side of seizure origin in half. ictal eeg changes were rarely detected at the time of clinical seizure onset  but lateralized buildup of rhythmic seizure activity during the seizure occurred in 80% of patients. in 13%  the scalp eeg seizure buildup was  however  contralateral to the side of seizure origin as subsequently determined by depth eeg and curative surgery. lateralized postictal slowing  when present  was a very reliable lateralizing finding. neuropsychological testing provided lateralizing findings concordant with the side of seizure origin in 73% of patients. when neuropsychological testing produced discordant results or nonlateralizing findings  those patients were usually found to have right temporal seizure origin. intracarotid amobarbital (amytal) testing demonstrated absent or marginal memory functions on the side of seizure onset in 63% of patients  but 26 patients (37%) had bilaterally intact memory. in those patients who had magnetic resonance imaging  it was very sensitive in detecting subtle medial temporal abnormalities. these abnormalities were present in 23 of 28 magnetic resonance images  and corresponded with mesial temporal sclerosis on pathological examination in all but 2 patients.(abstract truncated at 250 words)
4576,phenylpropanolamine and the risk of hemorrhagic stroke.,background phenylpropanolamine is commonly found in appetite suppressants and cough or cold remedies. case reports have linked the use of products containing phenylpropanolamine to hemorrhagic stroke  often after the first use of these products. to study the association  we designed a case-control study. methods men and women 18 to 49 years of age were recruited from 43 u.s. hospitals. eligibility criteria included the occurrence of a subarachnoid or intracerebral hemorrhage within 30 days before enrollment and the absence of a previously diagnosed brain lesion. random-digit dialing identified two matched control subjects per patient. results there were 702 patients and 1376 control subjects. for women  the adjusted odds ratio was 16.58 (95 percent confidence interval  1.51 to 182.21; p=0.02) for the association between the use of appetite suppressants containing phenylpropanolamine and the risk of a hemorrhagic stroke and 3.13 (95 percent confidence interval  0.86 to 11.46; p=0.08) for the association with the first use of a product containing phenylpropanolamine. all first uses of phenylpropanolamine involved cough or cold remedies. for men and women combined  the adjusted odds ratio was 1.49 (95 percent confidence interval  0.84 to 2.64; p=0.17) for the association between the use of a product containing phenylpropanolamine and the risk of a hemorrhagic stroke  1.23 (95 percent confidence interval  0.68 to 2.24; p=0.49) for the association with the use of cough or cold remedies that contained phenylpropanolamine  and 15.92 (95 percent confidence interval  1.38 to 184.13; p=0.03) for the association with the use of appetite suppressants that contained phenylpropanolamine. an analysis in men showed no increased risk of a hemorrhagic stroke in association with the use of cough or cold remedies containing phenylpropanolamine. no men reported the use of appetite suppressants. conclusions the results suggest that phenylpropanolamine in appetite suppressants  and possibly in cough and cold remedies  is an independent risk factor for hemorrhagic stroke in women.
4578,metabolic dna as the origin of spontaneously released dna?,a dna fraction is spontaneously released from living  but not dead or dying  human  other mammalian  avian  amphibian  plant  and prokaryote cells. the spontaneously released dna fraction has been shown to be (a) present in both actively dividing and nondividing  differentiated cell populations; (b) labile; (c) associated with dna-dependent rna or dna polymerase; (d) associated with an rna fraction; and to have (e) a lower molecular weight than the typical genetic dna fraction; and (f) alu repeat sequences in increased proportions compared to a unique gene in plasma/serum. on the other hand  early autoradiographic and biochemical and quantitative cytochemical and cytophysical studies on dna permitted the identification of a dna fraction which was (1) present in both actively dividing and nondividing  differentiated cell populations; (2) labile; and (3) had a lower molecular weight than the typical genetic dna fraction. this dna fraction was termed metabolic dna (m-dna) and was proposed as possibly forming extra gene copies for the rapid production of m-rna  to be destroyed subsequently. therefore  we suggest that the metabolic dna fraction might represent the precursor to the formation of the spontaneously released dna fraction.
4580,peptide and non-peptide g-protein coupled receptors (gpcrs) in skeletal muscle.,g-protein coupled receptors (gpcrs) represent a large class of cell surface receptors that mediate a multitude of functions. over the years  a number of gpcrs and ancillary proteins have been shown to be expressed in skeletal muscle. unlike the case with other muscle tissues like cardiac and vascular smooth muscle cells  there has been little attempt at systematically analyzing gpcrs in skeletal muscle. here we have compiled all the gpcrs that are expressed in skeletal muscle. in addition  we review the known function of these receptors in both skeletal muscle tissue and in cultured skeletal muscle cells.
4582,experimental approaches for the treatment of malignant gliomas.,malignant gliomas  which include glioblastomas and anaplastic astrocytomas  are the most common primary tumors of the brain. over the past 30 years  the standard treatment for these tumors has evolved to include maximal safe surgical resection  radiation therapy and temozolomide chemotherapy. while the median survival of patients with glioblastomas has improved from 6 months to 14.6 months  these tumors continue to be lethal for the vast majority of patients. there has  however  been recent substantial progress in our mechanistic understanding of tumor development and growth. the translation of these genetic  epigenetic and biochemical findings into therapies that have been tested in clinical trials is the subject of this review.
4584,a review of the methods for human ipsc derivation.,the ability to reprogram somatic cells to induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs) offers an opportunity to generate pluripotent patient-specific cell lines that can help model human diseases. these ipsc lines could also be powerful tools for drug discovery and the development of cellular transplantation therapies. many methods exist for generating ipsc lines but those best suited for use in studying human diseases and developing therapies must be of adequate efficiency to produce ipscs from samples that may be of limited abundance  capable of reprogramming cells from both skin fibroblasts and blood  and footprint-free. several reprogramming techniques meet these criteria and can be utilized to derive ipscs in projects with both basic scientific and therapeutic goals. combining these reprogramming methods with small molecule modulators of signaling pathways can lead to successful generation of ipscs from even the most recalcitrant patient-derived somatic cells.
4586,pregnancy in dialysis patients: a review of outcomes  complications  and management.,although uncommon  pregnancy occurs in women on chronic dialysis. in 1980 the incidence of pregnancy in women on dialysis was 0.9%. studies from 1992 to 2003 indicate that pregnancy occurred in 1-7% of women on chronic dialysis. half of the infants born to women on chronic dialysis survive. of importance is that "intensive dialysis" of 16-24 hr/week is associated with improved infant survival. in this article  the incidence  duration  fetal and maternal complications  and outcomes of pregnancy in women on chronic dialysis are reviewed. the management of anemia  hypertension  electrolytes  bone minerals  and acid-base parameters in the pregnant dialysis patient is also summarized. recommendations regarding the dialysis prescription for the pregnant woman on hemodialysis (hd) or peritoneal dialysis (pd) are also made. the complex and precarious condition of the pregnant woman on dialysis requires close collaboration between the patient  nephrologist  dialysis staff  obstetrician  and neonatologist to maximize the chance of a successful pregnancy.
4588,evidence for the presence of urease apoprotein complexes containing ured  uref  and ureg in cells that are competent for in vivo enzyme activation.,in vivo activation of klebsiella aerogenes urease  a nickel-containing enzyme  requires the presence of functional ured  uref  and ureg accessory proteins and is further facilitated by uree. these accessory proteins are proposed to be involved in metallocenter assembly (m. h. lee  s. b. mulrooney  m. j. renner  y. markowicz  and r. p. hausinger  j. bacteriol. 174:4324-4330  1992). a series of three ured-urease apoprotein complexes are present in cells that express ured at high levels  and these complexes are thought to be essential for in vivo activation of the enzyme (i.-s. park  m. b. carr  and r. p. hausinger  proc. natl. acad. sci. usa 91:3233-3237  1994). in this study  we describe the effect of accessory gene deletions on urease complex formation. the uree  uref  and ureg gene products were found not to be required for formation of the ured-urease complexes; however  the complexes from the uref deletion mutant exhibited delayed elution during size exclusion chromatography. because these last complexes were of typical ured-urease sizes according to native gel electrophoretic analysis  we propose that uref alters the conformation of the ured-urease complexes. the same studies revealed the presence of an additional series of urease apoprotein complexes present only in cells containing ured  uref  and ureg  along with the urease subunit genes. these new complexes were shown to contain urease  ured  uref  and ureg. we propose that the ured-uref-ureg-urease apoprotein complexes represent the activation-competent form of urease apoprotein in the cell.
4590,"natural" killer cells in the mouse. i. cytotoxic cells with specificity for mouse moloney leukemia cells. specificity and distribution according to genotype.,in the spleens of young  adult mice there exist naturally occurring killer lymphocytes with specificity for mouse moloney leukemia cells. the lytic activity was directed against syngeneic or allogeneic moloney leukemia cells to a similar extent  but was primarily expressed when tested against in vitro grown leukemia cells. two leukemias of non-moloney origin were resistant and so was the mastocytoma line p815. although killer activity varied between different strains of mice  the specificity of lysis was the same as indicated by competition experiments using unlabeled moloney or other tumor cells as inhibitors in the cytotoxic assays. capacity to compete and sensitivy to lysis by the killer cells were found to be highly positively correlated. analysis of the kinetics of the cytotoxic assay revealed a rapid induction of lysis within one to four hours  arguing against any conventional in vitro induction of immune response. no evidence was found of soluble factors playing any role in the cytolytic assay.
4592,increased serum soluble corin in mid pregnancy is associated with hypertensive disorders of pregnancy.,objective the study of soluble corin in the circulation before hypertensive disorders of pregnancy (hdp) has been limited. here we aimed to study serum soluble corin in mid pregnancy in patients with hdp and their age- and gestational weeks-matched controls. methods sixty-eight pairs of cases of hdp and controls were studied. blood samples were obtained in mid pregnancy between 16 and 20 gestational weeks. serum soluble corin was examined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay methods. the relationship between serum soluble corin and hdp was examined using conditional logistic regression models. results serum soluble corin in mid pregnancy was increased in cases with hdp compared with controls (median [interquartile range]: 1968 [1644-2332] pg/ml vs. 1700 [1446-2056] pg/ml  p=0.002). participants were categorized into quartiles of serum soluble corin distributed in controls. compared with the lowest quartile  participants in the highest quartile had a significantly increased risk for hdp (odds ratio [or]  4.21; 95% confidence interval [95% ci]  1.31-13.53) after multivariate adjustment. nevertheless  we did not find a significantly increased risk for participants in the second (or  1.75; 95% ci  0.44-7.02) and third (or  2.80; 95% ci  0.70-11.18) quartiles. then the first three quartiles were merged as a reference group to calculate the or of hdp for participants in the highest quartile and we found a significantly increased risk for hdp in individuals in the highest quartile (or  2.28  95% ci  1.02-5.06). conclusion increased serum soluble corin in mid pregnancy was associated with an increased risk for hdp. our findings suggest that increased serum soluble corin in mid pregnancy could be an indicator for hdp.
4594,local ca2+ influx through ca2+ release-activated ca2+ (crac) channels stimulates production of an intracellular messenger and an intercellular pro-inflammatory signal.,ca2+ entry through store-operated ca2+ channels drives the production of the pro-inflammatory molecule leukotriene c4 (ltc4) from mast cells through a pathway involving ca2+-dependent protein kinase c  mitogen-activated protein kinases erk1/2  phospholipase a2  and 5-lipoxygenase. here we examine whether local ca2+ influx through store-operated ca2+ release-activated ca2+ (crac) channels in the plasma membrane stimulates this signaling pathway. manipulating the amplitude and spatial extent of ca2+ entry by altering chemical and electrical gradients for ca2+ influx or changing the ca2+ buffering of the cytoplasm all impacted on protein kinase c and erk activation  generation of arachidonic acid and ltc4 secretion  with little change in the bulk cytoplasmic ca2+ rise. similar bulk cytoplasmic ca2+ concentrations were achieved when crac channels were activated in 0.25 mm external ca2+ versus 2 mm ca2+ and 100 nm la3+  an inhibitor of crac channels. however  despite similar bulk cytoplasmic ca2+  protein kinase c activation and ltc4 secretion were larger in 2 mm ca2+ and la3+ than in 0.25 mm ca2+  consistent with the central involvement of a subplasmalemmal ca2+ rise. the nonreceptor tyrosine kinase syk coupled crac channel opening to protein kinase c and erk activation. recombinant trpc3 channels also activated protein kinase c  suggesting that subplasmalemmal ca2+ rather than a microdomain exclusive to crac channels is the trigger. hence a subplasmalemmal ca2+ increase in mast cells is highly versatile in that it triggers cytoplasmic responses through generation of intracellular messengers as well as long distance changes through increased secretion of paracrine signals.
4596,molecular interplay of the noncoding rna anril and methylated histone h3 lysine 27 by polycomb cbx7 in transcriptional silencing of ink4a.,expression of the ink4b/arf/ink4a tumor suppressor locus in normal and cancerous cell growth is controlled by methylation of histone h3 at lysine 27 (h3k27me) as directed by the polycomb group proteins. the antisense noncoding rna anril of the ink4b/arf/ink4a locus is also important for expression of the protein-coding genes in cis  but its mechanism has remained elusive. here we report that chromobox 7 (cbx7) within the polycomb repressive complex 1 binds to anril  and both cbx7 and anril are found at elevated levels in prostate cancer tissues. in concert with h3k27me recognition  binding to rna contributes to cbx7 function  and disruption of either interaction impacts the ability of cbx7 to repress the ink4b/arf/ink4a locus and control senescence. structure-guided analysis reveals the molecular interplay between noncoding rna and h3k27me as mediated by the conserved chromodomain. our study suggests a mechanism by which noncoding rna participates directly in epigenetic transcriptional repression.
4598,engineered fgf19 eliminates bile acid toxicity and lipotoxicity leading to resolution of steatohepatitis and fibrosis in mice,nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (nafld) is an increasingly prevalent chronic liver disease for which no approved therapies are available. despite intensive research  the cellular mechanisms that mediate nafld pathogenesis and progression are poorly understood. although obesity  diabetes  insulin resistance  and related metabolic syndrome  all consequences of a western diet lifestyle  are well-recognized risk factors for nafld development  dysregulated bile acid metabolism is emerging as a novel mechanism contributing to nafld pathogenesis. notably  nafld patients exhibit a deficiency in fibroblast growth factor 19 (fgf19)  an endocrine hormone in the gut-liver axis that controls de novo bile acid synthesis  lipogenesis  and energy homeostasis. using a mouse model that reproduces the clinical progression of human nafld  including the development of simple steatosis  nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (nash)  and advanced "burnt-out" nash with hepatocellular carcinoma  we demonstrate that fgf19 as well as an engineered nontumorigenic fgf19 analogue  m70  ameliorate bile acid toxicity and lipotoxicity to restore liver health. mass spectrometry-based lipidomics analysis of livers from mice treated with fgf19 or m70 revealed significant reductions in the levels of toxic lipid species (i.e.  diacylglycerols  ceramides and free cholesterol) and an increase in levels of unoxidized cardiolipins  an important component of the inner mitochondrial membrane. furthermore  treatment with fgf19 or m70 rapidly and profoundly reduced levels of liver enzymes  resolved the histologic features of nash  and enhanced insulin sensitivity  energy homeostasis  and lipid metabolism. whereas fgf19 induced hepatocellular carcinoma formation following prolonged exposure in these mice  animals expressing m70 showed no evidence of liver tumorigenesis in this model. conclusion: we have engineered an fgf19 hormone that is capable of regulating multiple pathways to deliver antisteatotic  anti-inflammatory  and antifibrotic activities and that represents a potentially promising therapeutic for patients with nash. (hepatology communications 2017;1:1024-1042).
4600,three-dimensional chemical imaging of skin using stimulated raman scattering microscopy,abstract. stimulated raman scattering (srs) microscopy is used to generate structural and chemical three-dimensional images of native skin. we employed srs microscopy to investigate the microanatomical features of skin and penetration of topically applied materials. image depth stacks are collected at distinct wavelengths corresponding to vibrational modes of proteins  lipids  and water in the skin. we observed that corneocytes in stratum corneum are grouped together in clusters  100 to 250 μm in diameter  separated by 10- to 25-μm-wide microanatomical skin-folds called canyons. these canyons occasionally extend down to depths comparable to that of the dermal–epidermal junction below the flat surface regions in porcine and human skin. srs imaging shows the distribution of chemical species within cell clusters and canyons. water is predominately located within the cell clusters  and its concentration rapidly increases at the transition from stratum corneum to viable epidermis. canyons do not contain detectable levels of water and are rich in lipid material. oleic acid-d34 applied to the skin surface lines the canyons down to a depth of 50 μm below the surface of the skin. this observation could have implications on the evaluation of penetration profiles of bioactive materials measured using traditional methods  such as tape-stripping.
4602,mycobacterium tuberculosis and the environment within the phagosome.,once across the barrier of the epithelium  macrophages constitute the primary defense against microbial invasion. for most microbes  the acidic  hydrolytically competent environment of the phagolysosome is sufficient to kill them. despite our understanding of the trafficking events that regulate phagosome maturation  our appreciation of the lumenal environment within the phagosome is only now becoming elucidated through real-time functional assays. the assays quantify ph change  phagosome/lysosome fusion  proteolysis  lipolysis  and beta-galactosidase activity. this information is particularly important for understanding pathogens that successfully parasitize the endosomal/lysosomal continuum. mycobacterium tuberculosis infects macrophages through arresting the normal maturation process of the phagosome  retaining its vacuole at ph 6.4 with many of the characteristics of an early endosome. current studies are focusing on the transcriptional response of the bacterium to the changing environment in the macrophage phagosome. manipulation of these environmental cues  such as preventing the ph drop to ph 6.4 with concanamycin a  abrogates the majority of the transcriptional response in the bacterium  showing that ph is the dominant signal that the bacterium senses and responds to. these approaches represent our ongoing attempts to unravel the discourse that takes place between the pathogen and its host cell.
4604,acentrosomal microtubule assembly in mitosis: the where  when  and how.,in mitosis the cell assembles the bipolar spindle  a microtubule (mt)-based apparatus that segregates the duplicated chromosomes into two daughter cells. most animal cells enter mitosis with duplicated centrosomes that provide an active source of dynamic mts. however  it is now established that spindle assembly relies on the nucleation of acentrosomal mts occurring around the chromosomes after nuclear envelope breakdown  and on pre-existing microtubules. where chromosome-dependent mt nucleation occurs  when mt amplification takes place and how the two pathways function are still key questions that generate some controversies. we reconcile the data and present an integrated model accounting for acentrosomal microtubule assembly in the dividing cell.
4606,characterization of serotonin 5-ht2c receptor signaling to extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2.,serotonin 5-ht2c receptors (5-ht(2c)rs) are almost exclusively expressed in the cns  and implicated in disorders such as obesity  depression  and schizophrenia. the present study investigated the mechanisms governing the coupling of the 5-ht(2c)r to the extracellular signal-regulated kinases (erks) 1/2  using a chinese hamster ovary (cho) cell line stably expressing the receptor at levels comparable to those found in the brain. using the non-rna-edited isoform of the 5-ht(2c)r  constitutive erk1/2 phosphorylation was observed and found to be modulated by full  partial and inverse agonists. interestingly  agonist-directed trafficking of receptor stimulus was also observed when comparing effects on phosphoinositide accumulation and intracellular ca2+ elevation to erk1/2 phosphorylation  whereby the agonists  [+/-]-2 5-dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine (doi) and quipazine  showed reversal of efficacy between the phosphoinositide/ca2+ pathways  on the one hand  and the erk1/2 pathway on the other. subsequent molecular characterization found that 5-ht-stimulated erk1/2 phosphorylation in this cellular background requires phospholipase d  protein kinase c  and activation of the raf/mek/erk module  but is independent of both receptor- and non-receptor tyrosine kinases  phospholipase c  phosphoinositide 3-kinase  and endocytosis. our findings underscore the potential for exploiting pathway-selective receptor states in the differential modulation of signaling pathways that play prominent roles in normal and abnormal neuronal signaling.
4608,comparison of beck depression inventories -ia and -ii in psychiatric outpatients.,the amended (revised) beck depression inventory (bdi-ia; beck & steer  1993b) and the beck depression inventory-ii (bdi-ii; beck  steer  & brown  1996) were self-administered to 140 psychiatric outpatients with various psychiatric disorders. the coefficient alphas of the bdi-ia and the bdi-ii were  respectively  .89 and .91. the mean rating for sadness on the bdi-ia was higher than it was on the bdi-ii  but the mean ratings for past failure  self-dislike  change in sleeping pattern  and change in appetite were higher on the bdi-ii than they were on the bdi-ia. the mean bdi-ii total score was approximately 2 points higher than it was for the bdi-ia  and the outpatients also endorsed approximately one more symptom on the bdi-ii than they did on the bdi-ia. the correlations of bdi-ia and bdi-ii total scores with sex  ethnicity  age  the diagnosis of a mood disorder  and the beck anxiety inventory (beck & steer  1993a) were within 1 point of each other for the same variables.
4610,the mcm8-mcm9 complex promotes rad51 recruitment at dna damage sites to facilitate homologous recombination.,the minichromosome maintenance protein homologs mcm8 and mcm9 have previously been implicated in dna replication elongation and prereplication complex (pre-rc) formation  respectively. we found that mcm8 and mcm9 physically associate with each other and that mcm8 is required for the stability of mcm9 protein in mammalian cells. depletion of mcm8 or mcm9 in human cancer cells or the loss of function mcm9 mutation in mouse embryo fibroblasts sensitizes cells to the dna interstrand cross-linking (icl) agent cisplatin. consistent with a role in the repair of icls by homologous recombination (hr)  knockdown of mcm8 or mcm9 significantly reduces hr repair efficiency. chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis using human dr-gfp cells or xenopus egg extract demonstrated that mcm8 and mcm9 proteins are rapidly recruited to dna damage sites and promote rad51 recruitment. thus  these two metazoan-specific mcm homologs are new components of hr and may represent novel targets for treating cancer in combination with dna cross-linking agents.
4612,ionic protein-lipid interaction at the plasma membrane: what can the charge do?,phospholipids are the major components of cell membranes  but they have functional roles beyond forming lipid bilayers. in particular  acidic phospholipids form microdomains in the plasma membrane and can ionically interact with proteins via polybasic sequences  which can have functional consequences for the protein. the list of proteins regulated by ionic protein-lipid interaction has been quickly expanding  and now includes membrane proteins  cytoplasmic soluble proteins  and viral proteins. here we review how acidic phospholipids in the plasma membrane regulate protein structure and function via ionic interactions  and how ca(2+) regulates ionic protein-lipid interactions via direct and indirect mechanisms.
4614,prevalence and size of directly detected patent foramen ovale in migraine with aura.,background transcranial contrast doppler studies have shown an increased prevalence of right-to-left shunts in patients with migraine with aura compared with controls. the anatomy and size of these right-to-left shunts have never been directly assessed. methods in a cross-sectional case-control study  the authors performed transesophageal contrast echocardiography in 93 consecutive patients with migraine with aura and 93 healthy controls. results a patent foramen ovale was present in 44 (47% [95% ci 37 to 58%]) patients with migraine with aura and 16 (17% [95% ci 10 to 26%]) control subjects (or 4.56 [95% ci 1.97 to 10.57]; p < 0.001). a small shunt was equally prevalent in migraineurs (10% [95% ci 5 to 18%]) and controls (10% [95% ci 5 to 18%])  but a moderate-sized or large shunt was found more often in the migraine group (38% [95% ci 28 to 48%] vs 8% [95% ci 2 to 13%] in controls; p < 0.001). the presence of more than a small shunt increased the odds of having migraine with aura 7.78-fold (95% ci 2.53 to 29.30; p < 0.001). besides patent foramen ovale prevalence and shunt size  no other echocardiographic differences were found between the study groups. headache and baseline characteristics did not differ in migraine patients with and without shunt. conclusions nearly half of all patients with migraine with aura have a right-to-left shunt due to a patent foramen ovale. shunt size is larger in migraineurs than controls. the clinical presentation of migraine is identical in patients with and without a patent foramen ovale.
4616,localization and requirement for myosin ii at the dorsal-ventral compartment boundary of the drosophila wing.,as organisms develop  their tissues can become separated into distinct cell populations through the establishment of compartment boundaries. compartment boundaries have been discovered in a wide variety of tissues  but in many cases the molecular mechanisms that separate cells remain poorly understood. in the drosophila wing  a stripe of notch activation maintains the dorsal-ventral compartment boundary  through a process that depends on the actin cytoskeleton. here  we show that the dorsal-ventral boundary exhibits a distinct accumulation of myosin ii  and that this accumulation is regulated downstream of notch signaling. conversely  the dorsal-ventral boundary is depleted for the par-3 homologue bazooka. we further show that mutations in the myosin heavy chain subunit encoded by zipper can impair dorsal-ventral compartmentalization without affecting anterior-posterior compartmentalization. these observations identify a distinct accumulation and requirement for myosin activity in dorsal-ventral compartmentalization  and suggest a novel mechanism in which contractile tension along an f-actin cable at the compartment boundary contributes to compartmentalization.
4618,reported side effects to chloroquine  chloroquine plus proguanil  and mefloquine as chemoprophylaxis against malaria in danish travelers.,background the aim of the study was to provide data on the relative frequency of reported symptoms in travelers using chloroquine  chloroquine plus proguanil  and mefloquine. method the study was an open  nonrandomized study recording self-reported events in travelers recruited consecutively from two travel clinics in copenhagen  denmark. the main outcome measures were the relative proportion of travelers reporting particular symptoms in the three prophylaxis groups  compliance  hospitalization and premature termination of the travel. results from may 1996 to april 1998 5  446 travelers were included and 4 158 questionnaires (76.3%) returned. compliance was significantly better in mefloquine users with 83.3% of short term travelers compared to 76.3% in chloroquine plus proguanil users. also  84.8%  59.3% and 69.5% using chloroquine  chloroquine plus proguanil  and mefloquine respectively reported no symptoms and 0.6%  1.1% and 2.8% reported "unacceptable" symptoms. compared to chloroquine  mefloquine users had a significantly higher risk of reporting depression  rr 5.06 (95% ci 2.71 - 9.45)  "strange thoughts " rr 6.36 (95% ci 2.52 - 16.05) and altered spatial perception  rr 3.00 (95% ci 1.41 - 6.41). conclusion overall mefloquine is tolerated at least as well as chloroquine plus proguanil and shows better compliance  however  symptoms related to the central nervous system are more prevalent in mefloquine users and when symptoms develop  they are perceived as more severe.
4620,the adaptor protein tks5/fish is required for podosome formation and function  and for the protease-driven invasion of cancer cells.,tks5/fish is a scaffolding protein with five sh3 domains and one px domain. in src-transformed cells  tks5/fish localizes to podosomes  discrete protrusions of the ventral membrane. we generated src-transformed cells with reduced tks5/fish levels. they no longer formed podosomes  did not degrade gelatin  and were poorly invasive. we detected tks5/fish expression in podosomes in invasive cancer cells  as well as in human breast cancer and melanoma samples. tks5/fish expression was also required for protease-driven matrigel invasion in human cancer cells. finally  coexpression of tks5/fish and src in epithelial cells resulted in the appearance of podosomes. thus  tks5/fish appears to be required for podosome formation  for degradation of the extracellular matrix  and for invasion of some cancer cells.
4622,il-2 receptor signaling is essential for the development of klrg1+ terminally differentiated t regulatory cells.,thymic-derived natural t regulatory cells (tregs) are characterized by functional and phenotypic heterogeneity. recently  a small fraction of peripheral tregs has been shown to express klrg1  but it remains unclear as to what extent klrg1 defines a unique treg subset. in this study  we show that klrg1(+) tregs represent a terminally differentiated treg subset derived from klrg1(-) tregs. this subset is a recent ag-responsive and highly activated short-lived treg population that expresses enhanced levels of treg suppressive molecules and that preferentially resides within mucosal tissues. the development of klrg1(+) tregs also requires extensive il-2r signaling. this activity represents a distinct function for il-2  independent from its contribution to treg homeostasis and competitive fitness. these and other properties are analogous to terminally differentiated short-lived cd8(+) t effector cells. our findings suggest that an important pathway driving ag-activated conventional t lymphocytes also operates for tregs.
4624,amp-activated/snf1 protein kinases: conserved guardians of cellular energy,the snf1/amp-activated protein kinase (ampk) family maintains the balance between atp production and consumption in all eukaryotic cells. the kinases are heterotrimers that comprise a catalytic subunit and regulatory subunits that sense cellular energy levels. when energy status is compromised  the system activates catabolic pathways and switches off protein  carbohydrate and lipid biosynthesis  as well as cell growth and proliferation. surprisingly  recent results indicate that the ampk system is also important in functions that go beyond the regulation of energy homeostasis  such as the maintenance of cell polarity in epithelial cells.
4626,finding the right niche: b-cell migration in the early phases of t-dependent antibody responses.,humoral immune responses depend on b cells encountering antigen  interacting with helper t cells  proliferating and differentiating into low-affinity plasma cells or  after organizing into a germinal center (gc)  high-affinity plasma cells and memory b cells. remarkably  each of these events occurs in association with distinct stromal cells in separate subcompartments of the lymphoid tissue. b cells must migrate from niche to niche in a rapid and highly regulated manner to successfully mount a response. the chemokine  cxcl13  plays a central role in guiding b cells to follicles whereas t-zone chemokines guide activated b cells to the t zone. sphingosine-1-phosphate (s1p) promotes cell egress from the tissue  as well as marginal-zone b-cell positioning in the spleen. recent studies have identified a role for the orphan receptor  ebv-induced molecule 2 (ebi2; gpr183)  in guiding activated b cells to inter and outer follicular niche(s) and down-regulation of this receptor is essential for organizing cells into gcs. in this review  we discuss current understanding of the roles played by chemokines  s1p and ebi2 in the migration events that underlie humoral immune responses.
4628,a prospective natural-history study of coronary atherosclerosis.,background atherosclerotic plaques that lead to acute coronary syndromes often occur at sites of angiographically mild coronary-artery stenosis. lesion-related risk factors for such events are poorly understood. methods in a prospective study  697 patients with acute coronary syndromes underwent three-vessel coronary angiography and gray-scale and radiofrequency intravascular ultrasonographic imaging after percutaneous coronary intervention. subsequent major adverse cardiovascular events (death from cardiac causes  cardiac arrest  myocardial infarction  or rehospitalization due to unstable or progressive angina) were adjudicated to be related to either originally treated (culprit) lesions or untreated (nonculprit) lesions. the median follow-up period was 3.4 years. results the 3-year cumulative rate of major adverse cardiovascular events was 20.4%. events were adjudicated to be related to culprit lesions in 12.9% of patients and to nonculprit lesions in 11.6%. most nonculprit lesions responsible for follow-up events were angiographically mild at baseline (mean [±sd] diameter stenosis  32.3±20.6%). however  on multivariate analysis  nonculprit lesions associated with recurrent events were more likely than those not associated with recurrent events to be characterized by a plaque burden of 70% or greater (hazard ratio  5.03; 95% confidence interval [ci]  2.51 to 10.11; p<0.001) or a minimal luminal area of 4.0 mm(2) or less (hazard ratio  3.21; 95% ci  1.61 to 6.42; p=0.001) or to be classified on the basis of radiofrequency intravascular ultrasonography as thin-cap fibroatheromas (hazard ratio  3.35; 95% ci  1.77 to 6.36; p<0.001). conclusions in patients who presented with an acute coronary syndrome and underwent percutaneous coronary intervention  major adverse cardiovascular events occurring during follow-up were equally attributable to recurrence at the site of culprit lesions and to nonculprit lesions. although nonculprit lesions that were responsible for unanticipated events were frequently angiographically mild  most were thin-cap fibroatheromas or were characterized by a large plaque burden  a small luminal area  or some combination of these characteristics  as determined by gray-scale and radiofrequency intravascular ultrasonography. (funded by abbott vascular and volcano; clinicaltrials.gov number  nct00180466.).
4630,a molecular framework for plant regeneration.,plants and some animals have a profound capacity to regenerate organs from adult tissues. molecular mechanisms for regeneration have  however  been largely unexplored. here we investigate a local regeneration response in arabidopsis roots. laser-induced wounding disrupts the flow of auxin-a cell-fate-instructive plant hormone-in root tips  and we demonstrate that resulting cell-fate changes require the plethora  shortroot  and scarecrow transcription factors. these transcription factors regulate the expression and polar position of pin auxin efflux-facilitating membrane proteins to reconstitute auxin transport in renewed root tips. thus  a regeneration mechanism using embryonic root stem-cell patterning factors first responds to and subsequently stabilizes a new hormone distribution.
4632,bmp receptor ia is required in mammalian neural crest cells for development of the cardiac outflow tract and ventricular myocardium.,the neural crest is a multipotent  migratory cell population arising from the border of the neural and surface ectoderm. in mouse  the initial migratory neural crest cells occur at the five-somite stage. bone morphogenetic proteins (bmps)  particularly bmp2 and bmp4  have been implicated as regulators of neural crest cell induction  maintenance  migration  differentiation and survival. mouse has three known bmp2/4 type i receptors  of which bmpr1a is expressed in the neural tube sufficiently early to be involved in neural crest development from the outset; however  earlier roles in other domains obscure its requirement in the neural crest. we have ablated bmpr1a specifically in the neural crest  beginning at the five-somite stage. we find that most aspects of neural crest development occur normally; suggesting that bmpria is unnecessary for many aspects of early neural crest biology. however  mutant embryos display a shortened cardiac outflow tract with defective septation  a process known to require neural crest cells and to be essential for perinatal viability. surprisingly  these embryos die in mid-gestation from acute heart failure  with reduced proliferation of ventricular myocardium. the myocardial defect may involve reduced bmp signaling in a novel  minor population of neural crest derivatives in the epicardium  a known source of ventricular myocardial proliferation signals. these results demonstrate that bmp2/4 signaling in mammalian neural crest derivatives is essential for outflow tract development and may regulate a crucial proliferation signal for the ventricular myocardium.
4634,serum exosome microrna as a minimally-invasive early biomarker of aml,relapse remains the major cause of mortality for patients with acute myeloid leukemia (aml). improved tracking of minimal residual disease (mrd) holds the promise of timely treatment adjustments to preempt relapse. current surveillance techniques detect circulating blasts that coincide with advanced disease and poorly reflect mrd during early relapse. here  we investigate exosomes as a minimally invasive platform for a microrna (mirna) biomarker. we identify a set of mirna enriched in aml exosomes and track levels of circulating exosome mirna that distinguish leukemic xenografts from both non-engrafted and human cd34+ controls. we develop biostatistical models that reveal circulating exosomal mirna at low marrow tumor burden and before circulating blasts can be detected. remarkably  both leukemic blasts and marrow stroma contribute to serum exosome mirna. we propose development of serum exosome mirna as a platform for a novel  sensitive compartment biomarker for prospective tracking and early detection of aml recurrence.
4636,identification of the conserved serine/threonine residues important for gibberellin-sensitivity of arabidopsis rgl2 protein.,the della proteins gai  rga  rgl1 and rgl2 in arabidopsis are plant growth repressors  repressing diverse developmental processes. studies have shown that gibberellin (ga) attenuates the repressive function of della proteins by triggering their degradation via the proteasome pathway. however  it is not known if ga-induced protein degradation is the only pathway for regulating the bioactivity of della proteins. we show here that tobacco by2 cells represent a suitable system for studying ga signaling. rgl2 exists in a phosphorylated form in by2 cells. rgl2 undergoes ga-induced degradation  and this process is blocked by proteasome inhibitors and serine/threonine phosphatase inhibitors; however  serine/threonine kinase inhibitors had no detectable effect  suggesting that dephosphorylation of serine/threonine is probably a prerequisite for degradation of rgl2 via the proteasome pathway. site-directed substitution of all 17 conserved serine and threonine residues showed that six mutants (rgl2(s441d  rgl2(s542d)  rgl2(t271e)  rgl2(t319e)  rgl2(t411e) and rgl2(t535e)) mimicking the status of constitutive phosphorylation are resistant to ga-induced degradation. this suggests that these sites are potential phosphorylation sites. a functional assay based on the expression of ga 20-oxidase revealed that rgl2(t271e) is probably a null mutant  rgl2(s441d)  rgl2(s542d)  rgl2(t319e) and rgl2(t411e) only retained about 4-17% of the activity of the wild type rgl2  whereas rgl2(t535e) retained about 66% of the activity of the wild type rgl2. however  expression of ga 20-oxidase in by2 cells expressing these mutant proteins is still responsive to ga  suggesting that the stabilization of rgl2 protein is not the only pathway for regulating its bioactivity.
4638,life course breast cancer risk factors and adult breast density (united kingdom),objective to determine whether risk factors in childhood and early adulthood affect later mammographic breast density. methods: subjects were 628 women who attended a medical examination at the university of glasgow student health service (1948–1968)  responded to a questionnaire (2001) and had a screening mammogram in scotland (1989–2002). mammograms (median age of 59years) were classified using a six category classification (scc) of breast density percent. logistic regression was used to determine associations between risk factors and having a high-risk mammogram (≥25 dense). results: in multi-variable analyses  high-risk mammograms were associated with parity (adjusted odds ratio (or) per child: 0.77 (95 confidence interval (ci) 0.61–0.99))  age at first birth  or per year: 1.05 (0.99–1.11)  smoking at university  or smokers versus non-smokers: 0.58 (0.36–0.92) and body mass index (bmi) while at university  or per 1kg/m20.75 (0.69–0.82). no associations with scc were found for age at menarche  birth weight  oral contraceptive (oc) use  height  leg length or exercise at age 20. conclusions: we confirm previous findings that breast density is affected by reproductive events and some anthropometric measures  however most of the risk factors acting throughout the life course which we examined were not closely related to adult breast density.
4640,frequency modulation entrains slow neural oscillations and optimizes human listening behavior.,the human ability to continuously track dynamic environmental stimuli  in particular speech  is proposed to profit from "entrainment" of endogenous neural oscillations  which involves phase reorganization such that "optimal" phase comes into line with temporally expected critical events  resulting in improved processing. the current experiment goes beyond previous work in this domain by addressing two thus far unanswered questions. first  how general is neural entrainment to environmental rhythms: can neural oscillations be entrained by temporal dynamics of ongoing rhythmic stimuli without abrupt onsets? second  does neural entrainment optimize performance of the perceptual system: does human auditory perception benefit from neural phase reorganization? in a human electroencephalography study  listeners detected short gaps distributed uniformly with respect to the phase angle of a 3-hz frequency-modulated stimulus. listeners' ability to detect gaps in the frequency-modulated sound was not uniformly distributed in time  but clustered in certain preferred phases of the modulation. moreover  the optimal stimulus phase was individually determined by the neural delta oscillation entrained by the stimulus. finally  delta phase predicted behavior better than stimulus phase or the event-related potential after the gap. this study demonstrates behavioral benefits of phase realignment in response to frequency-modulated auditory stimuli  overall suggesting that frequency fluctuations in natural environmental input provide a pacing signal for endogenous neural oscillations  thereby influencing perceptual processing.
4642,biochemical studies on mycobacterium tuberculosis ureg and comparative modeling reveal structural and functional conservation among the bacterial ureg family.,nickel is a fundamental micronutrient for cellular life  but it is toxic in soluble form at nonphysiological concentrations. such potentially contradictory features required living organisms to develop efficient systems for nickel utilization and homeostasis. this is the case for incorporation of nickel into the active site of urease  a multistep  tightly regulated process  requiring the interplay of various accessory proteins. the understanding of this activation mechanism may find medical applications against ureolytic bacteria  among which mycobacterium tuberculosis is a deadly pathogen for humans. the topic of this study is ureg  an essential chaperone in the in vivo activation of urease upon insertion of ni2+ into the active site. the protein was examined using both experimental and computational approaches. in particular  the soluble m. tuberculosis ureg (mtureg) was overexpressed in escherichia coli and purified to homogeneity. the identity of the isolated protein was established by mass spectrometry. on-line size-exclusion chromatography and light scattering indicated that mtureg exists as a dimeric form in solution. determination of the free thiol concentration revealed that a disulfide bond is present in the dimer. the isolated mtureg shows low gtpase activity under native conditions  with a kcat of 0.01 min-1. circular dichroism spectroscopy demonstrated the presence of a well-defined secondary structure (8% alpha-helices  29% beta-strands) in mtureg  whereas nmr spectroscopy indicated that this protein does not behave as a rigid three-dimensional fold and thus can be assigned to the class of intrinsically unstructured polypeptides. the molecular model of mtureg in the fully folded and functional form was built using fold recognition algorithms. an extensive similarity search was performed to determine conservation patterns in all known bacterial ureg sequences. the generation of a multiple-sequence alignment and the related phylogenetic tree allowed us to recognize key residues and motifs that are likely important for protein function. a structural database containing the homology-built models of the most representative ureg proteins was created  confirming the structural analogies among the ureg family. a flexible region  likely to be important for protein function  is identified. the structural conservation among this class of gtpases is discussed on the basis of their function in the urease assembly process.
4644,effect of cyclic amp-dependent protein phosphorylating conditions on the ph-dependent activity of tyrosine hydroxylase from beef and rat striata.,tyrosine hydroxylase (th  ec 1.14.16.2) from beef brain striata was purified 23-fold from an extract of an acetone powder. if this enzyme preparation is treated with a cyclic amp[-dependent protein phosphorylation system  there is a change in the ph dependence of the enzyme activity. the ph optimum at saturating tetrahydrobiopterin (bh4) concentration is shifted from below ph 6 to about ph 6.7. at ph 7  activation is expressed mainly as an increase in vmax  whereas at ph 6  activation is expressed mainly as a decrease in km for the pterin cofactor. further  even with the control enzyme the km for pterin cofactor declines precipitously as the ph is increased from 6 toward neutrality. similar data were obtained with g-25 sephadex-treated rat striatal th. experiments in which rat striatal synaptosomes were used demonstrated that the in situ activation of th by phosphorylating conditions is expressed primarily as an increase in the maximum rate of dopamine synthesis. these results indicate that changes in th activity caused by cyclic amp-dependent protein phosphorylation will depend to a large extent on the ph of the th environment.
4646,the basics of epithelial-mesenchymal transition.,the origins of the mesenchymal cells participating in tissue repair and pathological processes  notably tissue fibrosis  tumor invasiveness  and metastasis  are poorly understood. however  emerging evidence suggests that epithelial-mesenchymal transitions (emts) represent one important source of these cells. as we discuss here  processes similar to the emts associated with embryo implantation  embryogenesis  and organ development are appropriated and subverted by chronically inflamed tissues and neoplasias. the identification of the signaling pathways that lead to activation of emt programs during these disease processes is providing new insights into the plasticity of cellular phenotypes and possible therapeutic interventions.
4648,exercise-induced asthma screening of elite athletes: field versus laboratory exercise challenge.,purpose the purpose of this study was to compare a laboratory based exercise challenge (lbc) to a field based exercise challenge (fbc) for pulmonary function test (pft) exercise-induced asthma (eia) screening of elite athletes. methods twenty-three elite cold weather athletes (14 men  9 women) pft positive for eia (fbc screened) served as subjects. twenty-three gender and sport matched controls (nonasthmatics) were randomly selected to establish pft reference values for normal elite athletes. before fbc  athletes completed a medical history questionnaire for eia symptoms. fbc evaluations consisted of baseline spirometry  actual or simulated competition  and 5  10  and 15 min postexercise spirometry. pft positive athletes were evaluated in the laboratory using an exercise challenge simulating race intensity (ambient conditions: 21 degrees c  60% relative humidity). pft procedures were identical to fbc. results 91% of pft positive and 48% of pft normal athletes reported at least one symptom of eia  with postrace cough most frequent. baseline spirometry was the same for pft positives and normal controls. lower limit reference range (mn - 2 sd) of fev1 for controls suggests that postexercise decrements of greater than approximately -7% indicate abnormal airway response in this population. exercise time duration did not effect bronchial reactivity; 78% of fbc pft positives were pft normal post-lbc. conclusion self-reported symptoms by elite athletes are not reliable in identifying eia. reference range criterion for fev1 decrement in the elite athlete postexercise contrasts current recommended guidelines. moreover  a large number of false negatives may occur in this population if eia screening is performed with inadequate exercise and environmental stress.
4650,pth signaling in osteoprogenitors is essential for b-lymphocyte differentiation and mobilization.,cells of the osteoblast lineage provide critical support for b lymphopoiesis in the bone marrow (bm). parathyroid hormone (pth) signaling in osteoblastic cells through its receptor (ppr) is an important regulator of hematopoietic stem cells; however  its role in regulation of b lymphopoiesis is not clear. here we demonstrate that deletion of ppr in osteoprogenitors results in a significant loss of trabecular and cortical bone. ppr signaling in osteoprogenitors  but not in mature osteoblasts or osteocytes  is critical for b-cell precursor differentiation via il-7 production. interestingly  despite a severe reduction in b-cell progenitors in bm  mature b-lymphocytes were increased 3.5-fold in the bm of mice lacking ppr in osteoprogenitors. this retention of mature igd(+) b cells in the bm was associated with increased expression of vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 (vcam1) by ppr-deficient osteoprogenitors  and treatment with vcam1 neutralizing antibody increased mobilization of b lymphocytes from mutant bm. our results demonstrate that ppr signaling in early osteoblasts is necessary for b-cell differentiation via il-7 secretion and for b-lymphocyte mobilization via vcam1.
4652,endothelial klf2 links local arterial shear stress levels to the expression of vascular tone-regulating genes.,lung krüppel-like factor (lklf/klf2) is an endothelial transcription factor that is crucially involved in murine vasculogenesis and is specifically regulated by flow in vitro. we now show a relation to local flow variations in the adult human vasculature: decreased lklf expression was noted at the aorta bifurcations to the iliac and carotid arteries  coinciding with neointima formation. the direct involvement of shear stress in the in vivo expression of lklf was determined independently by in situ hybridization and laser microbeam microdissection/reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction in a murine carotid artery collar model  in which a 4- to 30-fold induction of lklf occurred at the high-shear sites. dissection of the biomechanics of lklf regulation in vitro demonstrated that steady flow and pulsatile flow induced basal lklf expression 15- and 36-fold at shear stresses greater than approximately 5 dyne/cm2  whereas cyclic stretch had no effect. prolonged lklf induction in the absence of flow changed the expression of angiotensin-converting enzyme  endothelin-1  adrenomedullin  and endothelial nitric oxide synthase to levels similar to those observed under prolonged flow. lklf repression by sirna suppressed the flow response of endothelin-1  adrenomedullin  and endothelial nitric oxide synthase (p < 0.05). thus  we demonstrate that endothelial lklf is regulated by flow in vivo and is a transcriptional regulator of several endothelial genes that control vascular tone in response to flow.
4654,hospital mortality  length of stay  and preventable complications among critically ill patients before and after tele-icu reengineering of critical care processes.,context the association of an adult tele-intensive care unit (icu) intervention with hospital mortality  length of stay  best practice adherence  and preventable complications for an academic medical center has not been reported. objective to quantify the association of a tele-icu intervention with hospital mortality  length of stay  and complications that are preventable by adherence to best practices. design  setting  and patients prospective stepped-wedge clinical practice study of 6290 adults admitted to any of 7 icus (3 medical  3 surgical  and 1 mixed cardiovascular) on 2 campuses of an 834-bed academic medical center that was performed from april 26  2005  through september 30  2007. electronically supported and monitored processes for best practice adherence  care plan creation  and clinician response times to alarms were evaluated. main outcome measures case-mix and severity-adjusted hospital mortality. other outcomes included hospital and icu length of stay  best practice adherence  and complication rates. results the hospital mortality rate was 13.6% (95% confidence interval [ci]  11.9%-15.4%) during the preintervention period compared with 11.8% (95% ci  10.9%-12.8%) during the tele-icu intervention period (adjusted odds ratio [or]  0.40 [95% ci  0.31-0.52]). the tele-icu intervention period compared with the preintervention period was associated with higher rates of best clinical practice adherence for the prevention of deep vein thrombosis (99% vs 85%  respectively; or  15.4 [95% ci  11.3-21.1]) and prevention of stress ulcers (96% vs 83%  respectively; or  4.57 [95% ci  3.91-5.77]  best practice adherence for cardiovascular protection (99% vs 80%  respectively; or  30.7 [95% ci  19.3-49.2])  prevention of ventilator-associated pneumonia (52% vs 33%  respectively; or  2.20 [95% ci  1.79-2.70])  lower rates of preventable complications (1.6% vs 13%  respectively  for ventilator-associated pneumonia [or  0.15; 95% ci  0.09-0.23] and 0.6% vs 1.0%  respectively  for catheter-related bloodstream infection [or  0.50; 95% ci  0.27-0.93])  and shorter hospital length of stay (9.8 vs 13.3 days  respectively; hazard ratio for discharge  1.44 [95% ci  1.33-1.56]). the results for medical  surgical  and cardiovascular icus were similar. conclusion in a single academic medical center study  implementation of a tele-icu intervention was associated with reduced adjusted odds of mortality and reduced hospital length of stay  as well as with changes in best practice adherence and lower rates of preventable complications.
4656,the cytokine rankl produced by positively selected thymocytes fosters medullary thymic epithelial cells that express autoimmune regulator.,the thymic medulla provides a microenvironment where medullary thymic epithelial cells (mtecs) express autoimmune regulator and diverse tissue-restricted genes  contributing to launching self-tolerance. positive selection is essential for thymic medulla formation via a previously unknown mechanism. here we show that the cytokine rank ligand (rankl) was produced by positively selected thymocytes and regulated the cellularity of mtec by interacting with rank and osteoprotegerin. forced expression of rankl restored thymic medulla in mice lacking positive selection  whereas rankl perturbation impaired medulla formation. these results indicate that rankl produced by positively selected thymocytes is responsible for fostering thymic medulla formation  thereby establishing central tolerance.
4658,the pecking order of free radicals and antioxidants: lipid peroxidation  alpha-tocopherol  and ascorbate.,free radicals vary widely in their thermodynamic properties  ranging from very oxidizing to very reducing. these thermodynamic properties can be used to predict a pecking order  or hierarchy  for free radical reactions. using one-electron reduction potentials  the predicted pecking order is in agreement with experimentally observed free radical electron (hydrogen atom) transfer reactions. these potentials are also in agreement with experimental data that suggest that vitamin e  the primary lipid soluble small molecule antioxidant  and vitamin c  the terminal water soluble small molecule antioxidant  cooperate to protect lipids and lipid structures against peroxidation. although vitamin e is located in membranes and vitamin c is located in aqueous phases  vitamin c is able to recycle vitamin e; i.e.  vitamin c repairs the tocopheroxyl (chromanoxyl) radical of vitamin e  thereby permitting vitamin e to function again as a free radical chain-breaking antioxidant. this review discusses: (i) the thermodynamics of free radical reactions that are of interest to the health sciences; (ii) the fundamental thermodynamic and kinetic properties that are associated with chain-breaking antioxidants; (iii) the unique interfacial nature of the apparent reaction of the tocopherol free radical (vitamin e radical) and vitamin c; and (iv) presents a hierarchy  or pecking order  for free radical electron (hydrogen atom) transfer reactions.
4660,endogenous gamma-h2ax-atm-chk2 checkpoint activation in bloom's syndrome helicase deficient cells is related to dna replication arrested forks.,the bloom syndrome helicase (blm) is critical for genomic stability. a defect in blm activity results in the cancer-predisposing bloom syndrome (bs). here  we report that blm-deficient cell lines and primary fibroblasts display an endogenously activated dna double-strand break checkpoint response with prominent levels of phosphorylated histone h2ax (gamma-h2ax)  chk2 (p(t68)chk2)  and atm (p(s1981)atm) colocalizing in nuclear foci. interestingly  the mitotic fraction of gamma-h2ax foci did not seem to be higher in blm-deficient cells  indicating that these lesions form transiently during interphase. pulse labeling with iododeoxyuridine and immunofluorescence microscopy showed the colocalization of gamma-h2ax  atm  and chk2 together with replication foci. those foci costained for rad51  indicating homologous recombination at these replication sites. we therefore analyzed replication in bs cells using a single molecule approach on combed dna fibers. in addition to a higher frequency of replication fork barriers  bs cells displayed a reduced average fork velocity and global reduction of interorigin distances indicative of an elevated frequency of origin firing. because bs is one of the most penetrant cancer-predisposing hereditary diseases  it is likely that the lack of blm engages the cells in a situation similar to precancerous tissues with replication stress. to our knowledge  this is the first report of high atm-chk2 kinase activation and its linkage to replication defects in a bs model.
4662,treatment of antidepressant-associated sexual dysfunction with sildenafil: a randomized controlled trial.,context sexual dysfunction is a common adverse effect of antidepressants that frequently results in treatment noncompliance. objective to assess the efficacy of sildenafil citrate in men with sexual dysfunction associated with the use of selective and nonselective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (sri) antidepressants. design  setting  and patients prospective  parallel-group  randomized  double-blind  placebo-controlled trial conducted between november 1  2000  and january 1  2001  at 3 us university medical centers among 90 male outpatients (mean [sd] age  45 [8] years) with major depression in remission and sexual dysfunction associated with sri antidepressant treatment. intervention patients were randomly assigned to take sildenafil (n = 45) or placebo (n = 45) at a flexible dose starting at 50 mg and adjustable to 100 mg before sexual activity for 6 weeks. main outcome measures the primary outcome measure was score on the clinical global impression-sexual function (cgi-sf); secondary measures were scores on the international index of erectile function  arizona sexual experience scale  massachusetts general hospital-sexual functioning questionnaire  and hamilton rating scale for depression (ham-d). results among the 90 randomized patients  93% (83/89) of patients treated per protocol took at least 1 dose of study drug and 85% (76/89) completed week 6 end-point assessments with last observation carried forward analyses. at a cgi-sf score of 2 or lower  54.5% (24/44) of sildenafil compared with 4.4% (2/45) of placebo patients were much or very much improved (p<.001). erectile function  arousal  ejaculation  orgasm  and overall satisfaction domain measures improved significantly in sildenafil compared with placebo patients. mean depression scores remained consistent with remission (ham-d score < or =10) in both groups for the study duration. conclusion in our study  sildenafil effectively improved erectile function and other aspects of sexual function in men with sexual dysfunction associated with the use of sri antidepressants. these improvements may allow patients to maintain adherence with effective antidepressant treatment.
4664,microarray analysis of pneumococcal gene expression during invasive disease.,streptococcus pneumoniae is a leading cause of invasive bacterial disease. this is the first study to examine the expression of s. pneumoniae genes in vivo by using whole-genome microarrays available from the institute for genomic research. total rna was collected from pneumococci isolated from infected blood  infected cerebrospinal fluid  and bacteria attached to a pharyngeal epithelial cell line in vitro. microarray analysis of pneumococcal genes expressed in these models identified body site-specific patterns of expression for virulence factors  transporters  transcription factors  translation-associated proteins  metabolism  and genes with unknown function. contributions to virulence predicted for several unknown genes with enhanced expression in vivo were confirmed by insertion duplication mutagenesis and challenge of mice with the mutants. finally  we cross-referenced our results with previous studies that used signature-tagged mutagenesis and differential fluorescence induction to identify genes that are potentially required by a broad range of pneumococcal strains for invasive disease.
4666,a brief analysis of clinical pharmacy interventions undertaken in an australian teaching hospital.,selected clinical pharmacy interventions undertaken during a 30-day data capture period were analysed  seeking to gain a greater understanding of the nature of the drug-related problems involved. pharmacists were asked to record only interventions that were of potentially major significance. a total of 67 interventions were submitted for analysis. in 28 cases (41.7% of the initial total) the intervention reports were excluded from further analysis after initial review. for the remaining 39 interventions  20 patients (51%) were under the care of a medical unit  and cardiovascular/antithrombotic agents accounted for 17 reports (43.5%). the majority of interventions were implemented at the time of inpatient medication order review by the clinical pharmacist (n=25  64%). the most common category of drug-related problem addressed in the interventions related to the prescription of inappropriately high doses of the correct drug for the patient (n=17  43.6%). deficiencies in technical knowledge accounted for less than 25% of all cases.
4668,functional genomics and proteomics approaches to study the erbb network in cancer.,substantial progress in functional genomic and proteomic technologies has opened new perspectives in biomedical research. the sequence of the human genome has been mostly determined and opened new visions on its complexity and regulation. new technologies  like rnai and protein arrays  allow gathering knowledge beyond single gene analysis. increasingly  biological processes are studied with systems biological approaches  where qualitative and quantitative data of the components are utilized to model the respective processes  to predict effects of perturbations  and to then refine these models after experimental testing. here  we describe the potential of applying functional genomics and proteomics  taking the erbb family of growth-factor receptors as an example to study the signaling network and its impact on cancer.
4670,glucose tolerance and blood pressure: long term follow up in middle aged men.,objective to investigate the role of glucose tolerance in the development of hypertension. design retrospective analysis of the results of a health check up in a group of clinically healthy middle aged men in the late 1960s (median year 1968). the subjects were invited to enter into a primary prevention trial for cardiovascular disease in 1974  when they underwent clinical examination for risk factors. the trial was completed in 1979  when the men were re-examined. follow up was in 1986. setting institute of occupational health  helsinki  finland and second department of medicine  university of helsinki. subjects in all  3490 men born during 1919-34 participated in a health check up in the late 1960s. in 1974  1815 of these men who were clinically healthy were entered into a primary prevention trial for cardiovascular disease. on clinical examination 1222 of the men were considered at high risk of cardiovascular disease. of these  612 received an intervention and were excluded from the study. a total of 593 men were without risk factors. the study comprised all of the men who did not have an intervention (n = 1203). in 1979  1120 men were re-examined  and in 1986 945 men attended follow up. there were two groups for analysis: one comprising all subjects and the other comprising only men who were normotensive in 1968 and for whom complete information was available. interventions by 1979  103 men were taking antihypertensive drugs  and by 1986  131 were taking antihypertensive drugs and 12 were taking drugs for hyperglycaemia. main outcome measures blood glucose concentration one hour after a glucose load  blood pressure  and body weight were measured in 1968  1974  and 1979. in 1986 blood pressure and body weight were recorded. results men who were hypertensive in 1986 had significantly higher blood pressures (p less than 0.0001) and (after adjustment for body mass index and alcohol intake) significantly higher blood glucose concentrations one hour after a glucose load at all examinations than those who were normotensive in 1986. regression analysis showed that the higher the blood glucose concentration after a glucose load in 1968 the higher the blood pressure during the following years. those men between the second and third tertiles of blood glucose concentration in 1968 had a significantly higher risk of developing hypertension (odds ratio 1.71  95% confidence interval 1.05 to 2.77) compared with those below the first tertile. conclusion in this study men who developed hypertension tended to have shown an increased intolerance to glucose up to 18 years before the clinical manifestation of their disorder. blood glucose concentration one hour after a glucose load was an independent predictor of future hypertension.
4672,structure of human rnase h1 complexed with an rna/dna hybrid: insight into hiv reverse transcription.,we report here crystal structures of human rnase h1 complexed with an rna/dna substrate. unlike b. halodurans rnase h1  human rnase h1 has a basic protrusion  which forms a dna-binding channel and together with the conserved phosphate-binding pocket confers specificity for the b form and 2'-deoxy dna. the rna strand is recognized by four consecutive 2'-oh groups and cleaved by a two-metal ion mechanism. although rnase h1 is overall positively charged  the substrate interface is neutral to acidic in character  which likely contributes to the catalytic specificity. positions of the scissile phosphate and two catalytic metal ions are interdependent and highly coupled. modeling of hiv reverse transcriptase (rt) with rna/dna in its rnase h active site suggests that the substrate cannot simultaneously occupy the polymerase active site and must undergo a conformational change to toggle between the two catalytic centers. the region that accommodates this conformational change offers a target to develop hiv-specific inhibitors.
4674,determination of chloramphenicol residues in milk by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay: improvement by biotin-streptavidin-amplified system.,a sensitive biotin-streptavidin amplified enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ba-elisa) method was developed for the determination of chloramphenicol residues in milk. the biotin-streptavidin system was applied to enhance the sensitivity. after optimization  the detection limit of the method was found to be 0.042 +/- 0.006 ng ml(-1)  which is 8-fold more sensitive than the traditional competitive elisa using the same antibody and coating antigen. the amplification mechanism of the biotin-streptavidin system and the major factors affecting the sensitivity of detection are discussed. this method was successfully applied to determine the chloramphenicol residues in milk samples with a simple and rapid extraction procedure  and good recoveries (85.66-109.67%) were obtained. the result indicated that the biotin-streptavidin system may be a valuable tool to improve the specific detection of trace veterinary drug residues and could be widely used for routine monitoring of food samples.
4676,adipose stem cells originate from perivascular cells.,recent research has shown that adipose tissues contain abundant mscs (mesenchymal stem cells). the origin and location of the adipose stem cells  however  remain unknown  presenting an obstacle to the further purification and study of these cells. in the present study  we aimed at investigating the origins of adipose stem cells. α-sma (α-smooth muscle actin) is one of the markers of pericytes. we harvested ascs (adipose stromal cells) from α-sma-gfp (green fluorescent protein) transgenic mice and sorted them into gfp-positive and gfp-negative cells by facs. multilineage differentiation tests were applied to examine the pluripotent ability of the α-sma-gfp-positive and -negative cells. immunofluorescent staining for α-sma and pdgf-rβ (platelet-derived growth factor receptor β) were applied to identify the α-sma-gfp-positive cells. then α-sma-gfp-positive cells were loaded on a collagen-fibronectin gel with endothelial cells to test their vascularization ability both in vitro and in vivo. results show that  in adipose tissue  all of the α-sma-gfp-positive cells congregate around the blood vessels. only the α-sma-gfp-positive cells have multilineage differentiation ability  while the α-sma-gfp-negative cells can only differentiate in an adipogenic direction. the α-sma-gfp-positive cells maintained expression of α-sma during multilineage differentiation. the α-sma-gfp-positive cells can promote the vascularization of endothelial cells in three-dimensional culture both in vitro and in vivo. we conclude that the adipose stem cells originate from perivascular cells and congregate around blood vessels.
4678,replisome stalling and stabilization at cgg repeats  which are responsible for chromosomal fragility,expanded cgg repeats cause chromosomal fragility and hereditary neurological disorders in humans. replication forks stall at cgg repeats in a length-dependent manner in primate cells and in yeast. saccharomyces cerevisiae proteins tof1 and mrc1 facilitate replication fork progression through cgg repeats. remarkably  the fork-stabilizing role of mrc1 does not involve its checkpoint function. thus  chromosomal fragility might occur when forks stalled at expanded cgg repeats escape the s-phase checkpoint.
4680,epigenetics in lung fibrosis: from pathobiology to treatment perspective.,purpose of review idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (ipf) is a fatal disease with limited treatment options and extensive gene expression changes identified in the lung parenchyma. multiple lines of evidence suggest that epigenetic factors contribute to dysregulation of gene expression in ipf lung. most importantly  risk factors that predispose to ipf - age  sex  cigarette smoke  and genetic variants - all influence epigenetic marks. this review summarizes recent findings of association of dna methylation and histone modifications with the presence of disease and fibroproliferation. recent findings in addition to targeted studies focused on specific gene loci  genome-wide profiles of dna methylation demonstrate widespread dna methylation changes in ipf lung tissue and a substantial effect of these methylation changes on gene expression. genetic loci that have been recently associated with ipf also contain differentially methylated regions  suggesting that genetic and epigenetic factors act in concert to dysregulate gene expression in ipf lung. summary although we are in very early stages of understanding the role of epigenetics in ipf  the potential for the use of epigenetic marks as biomarkers and therapeutic targets is high and discoveries made in this field will likely bring us closer to better prognosticating and treating this fatal disease.
4682,self-assembling peptides optimize the post-traumatic milieu and synergistically enhance the effects of neural stem cell therapy after cervical spinal cord injury.,introduction the hostile environment after spinal cord injury (sci) can compromise effects of regenerative therapies. we hypothesized that optimizing the post-traumatic environment with ql6 self-assembling peptides (saps) before neural precursor cell (npc) transplantation would improve cell survival  differentiation and functional recovery. methods a total of 90 wistar rats received a clip-compression sci at c7. within each of two study arms  animals were randomized into 5 groups (npc  sap  npc+sap  vehicle  and sham). saps and npcs were injected into the spinal cord 1day and 14days post-injury  respectively. animals received growth factors over 7days and were immunosuppressed. rats were sacrificed at 4weeks and sections of the cervical spinal cord prepared for immunohistochemistry (first study arm). neurological function was assessed weekly for 8weeks using a battery of behavioral tests. nine weeks post-sci  the corticospinal tract was assessed using fiber-tracking (second arm). results sap-treated animals had significantly more surviving npcs which showed increased differentiation to neurons and oligodendrocytes compared to controls. saps alone or in combination with npcs resulted in smaller intramedullary cysts and larger volume of preserved tissue compared to other groups. the combined treatment group showed reduced astrogliosis and chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan deposition. synaptic connectivity was increased in the npc and combined treatment groups. corticospinal tract preservation and behavioral outcomes improved with combinatorial treatment. conclusion injecting saps after sci enhances subsequent npc survival  integration and differentiation and improves functional recovery. statement of significance the hostile environment after spinal cord injury (sci) can compromise effects of regenerative therapies. we hypothesized that improving this environment with self-assembling peptides (saps) before neural precursor cell (npc) transplantation would support their beneficial effects. saps assemble once injected  providing a supportive scaffold for repair and regeneration. we investigated this in a rat model of spinal cord injury. more npcs survived in sap-treated animals and these showed increased differentiation compared to controls. saps alone or in combination with npcs resulted in smaller cysts and larger volume of preserved tissue with the combined treatment also reducing scarring and improving behavioral outcomes. overall  injection of saps was shown to improve the efficacy of npc treatment  a promising finding for those with scis.
4684,neuregulin 1 promotes excitatory synapse development and function in gabaergic interneurons.,neuregulin 1 (nrg1) and its receptor erbb4 are both susceptibility genes of schizophrenia. however  little is known about the underlying mechanisms of their malfunction. although erbb4 is enriched in gabaergic interneurons  the role of nrg1 in excitatory synapse formation in these neurons remains poorly understood. we showed that nrg1 increased both the number and size of psd-95 puncta and the frequency and amplitude of miniature epscs (mepscs) in gabaergic interneurons  indicating that nrg1 stimulates the formation of new synapses and strengthens existing synapses. in contrast  nrg1 treatment had no effect on either the number or size of excitatory synapses in glutamatergic neurons  suggesting its synaptogenic effect is specific to gabaergic interneurons. ecto-erbb4 treatment diminished both the number and size of excitatory synapses  suggesting that endogenous nrg1 may be critical for basal synapse formation. nrg1 could stimulate the stability of psd-95 in the manner that requires tyrosine kinase activity of erbb4. finally  deletion of erbb4 in parvalbumin-positive interneurons led to reduced frequency and amplitude of mepscs  providing in vivo evidence that erbb4 is important in excitatory synaptogenesis in interneurons. together  our findings suggested a novel synaptogenic role of nrg1 in excitatory synapse development  possibly via stabilizing psd-95  and this effect is specific to gabaergic interneurons. in light of the association of the genes of both nrg1 and erbb4 with schizophrenia and dysfunction of gabaergic system in this disorder  these results provide insight into its potential pathological mechanism.
4686,impaired mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation and insulin resistance in aging: novel protective role of glutathione.,aging is associated with impaired fasted oxidation of nonesterified fatty acids (nefa) suggesting a mitochondrial defect. aging is also associated with deficiency of glutathione (gsh)  an important mitochondrial antioxidant  and with insulin resistance. this study tested whether gsh deficiency in aging contributes to impaired mitochondrial nefa oxidation and insulin resistance  and whether gsh restoration reverses these defects. three studies were conducted: (i) in 82-week-old c57bl/6 mice  the effect of naturally occurring gsh deficiency and its restoration on mitochondrial (13) c1 -palmitate oxidation and glucose metabolism was compared with 22-week-old c57bl/6 mice; (ii) in 20-week c57bl/6 mice  the effect of gsh depletion on mitochondrial oxidation of (13) c1 -palmitate and glucose metabolism was studied; (iii) the effect of gsh deficiency and its restoration on fasted nefa oxidation and insulin resistance was studied in gsh-deficient elderly humans  and compared with gsh-replete young humans. chronic gsh deficiency in old mice and elderly humans was associated with decreased fasted mitochondrial nefa oxidation and insulin resistance  and these defects were reversed with gsh restoration. acute depletion of gsh in young mice resulted in lower mitochondrial nefa oxidation  but did not alter glucose metabolism. these data suggest that gsh is a novel regulator of mitochondrial nefa oxidation and insulin resistance in aging. chronic gsh deficiency promotes impaired nefa oxidation and insulin resistance  and gsh restoration reverses these defects. supplementing diets of elderly humans with cysteine and glycine to correct gsh deficiency could provide significant metabolic benefits.
4688,congenital hypogonadotropic hypogonadism: a trait shared by several complex neurodevelopmental disorders.,reproductive function depends on the activity of the gonadotropic axis  which is controlled by a hypothalamic neural network whose main function is to regulate the secretion of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (gnrh). this endocrine network is not mature at birth  and several phases of activation-inactivation of the gonadotropic axis are necessary for its normal development. the postnatal maturation of the gnrh network lies under the control of a neurodevelopmental program that starts in fetal life and ends at puberty. there are many clinical situations in which this program is interrupted  leading to congenital hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (chh) and an absence of puberty. for many years  attention has mainly been focused on the genetics of isolated chh. more recently  the emergence of new genomics techniques has led to the description of genetic defects in very rare syndromes in which chh is associated with complex neurological dysfunctions. here  we review the clinical phenotype and genetic defects linked to such syndromic chh. this analysis highlights the close link between the ubiquitin pathway  synaptic proteins and chh  as well as unexpected mutations in genes encoding nucleolar proteins.
4690,reforming the health sector in developing countries: the central role of policy analysis.,policy analysis is an established discipline in the industrialized world  yet its application to developing countries has been limited. the health sector in particular appears to have been neglected. this is surprising because there is a well recognized crisis in health systems  and prescriptions abound of what health policy reforms countries should introduce. however  little attention has been paid to how countries should carry out reforms  much less who is likely to favour or resist such policies. this paper argues that much health policy wrongly focuses attention on the content of reform  and neglects the actors involved in policy reform (at the international  national sub-national levels)  the processes contingent on developing and implementing change and the context within which policy is developed. focus on policy content diverts attention from understanding the processes which explain why desired policy outcomes fail to emerge. the paper is organized in 4 sections. the first sets the scene  demonstrating how the shift from consensus to conflict in health policy established the need for a greater emphasis on policy analysis. the second section explores what is meant by policy analysis. the third investigates what other disciplines have written that help to develop a framework of analysis. and the final section suggests how policy analysis can be used not only to analyze the policy process  but also to plan.
4692,trim and fill: a simple funnel-plot-based method of testing and adjusting for publication bias in meta-analysis.,we study recently developed nonparametric methods for estimating the number of missing studies that might exist in a meta-analysis and the effect that these studies might have had on its outcome. these are simple rank-based data augmentation techniques  which formalize the use of funnel plots. we show that they provide effective and relatively powerful tests for evaluating the existence of such publication bias. after adjusting for missing studies  we find that the point estimate of the overall effect size is approximately correct and coverage of the effect size confidence intervals is substantially improved  in many cases recovering the nominal confidence levels entirely. we illustrate the trim and fill method on existing meta-analyses of studies in clinical trials and psychometrics.
4694,development of an insect model for the in vivo pathogenicity testing of yeasts.,conventional in vivo assays to determine the relative pathogenicity of yeast isolates rely upon the use of a range of mammalian species. the purpose of the work presented here was to investigate the possibility of using an insect (galleria mellonella) as a model system for in vivo pathogenicity testing. the haemolymph of g. mellonella larvae was inoculated with pbs containing different concentrations of stationary phase yeasts of the genus candida by injection at the last pro-leg. larvae were incubated at 30 degrees c and monitored over 72 hours. results indicate that g. mellonella can be killed by the pathogenic yeast candida albicans and by a range of other candida species but not to a significant extent by the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae. the kill kinetics for larvae inoculated with clinical and laboratory isolates of c. albicans indicate the former class of isolates to be more pathogenic. differences in the relative pathogenicity of a range of candida species may be distinguished using g. mellonella as a model. this work indicates that g. mellonella may be employed to give results consistent with data previously obtained using mammals in conventional in vivo pathogenicity testing. larvae of g. mellonella are inexpensive to culture  easy to manipulate and their use may reduce the need to employ mammals for routine in vivo pathogenicity testing with a concomitant reduction in mammalian suffering.
4696,sequence features surrounding the translation initiation sites assigned on the genome sequence of synechocystis sp. strain pcc6803 by amino-terminal protein sequencing.,to characterize the sequence features surrounding the translation initiation sites on the genome of synechocystis sp. strain 6803  the total proteins extracted from the cell were resolved by two-dimensional electrophoresis  and the amino-terminal sequences of the relatively abundant protein spots were determined. by comparison of the determined amino-terminal sequences with the nucleotide sequence of the entire genome  the translation initiation sites of a total of 72 proteins were successfully assigned on the genome. the sequence features emerged from the nucleotide sequences at and surrounding the translation initiation sites were as follows: (1) in addition to the three initiation codons  atg  gtg  and ttg  evidence was obtained that att was also used as a rare initiation codon; (2) the core sequences (gagg  ggag and agga) of the shine-dalgarno sequence were identified in the appropriate position preceding the 35 initiation sites (48.6%); and (3) the preferential sequence surrounding the initiation codons was formulated as 5'-yy[...]r-3' where y and r denote pyrimidine and purine nucleotides  respectively  and three dots represent the initiation codons. the result obtained would provide valuable information for improvement of the gene-finding software  and the approach used in this study should be applicable for comprehensive analysis of the expression profiles of cellular proteins.
4698,combinatorial signaling by sonic hedgehog and wnt family members induces myogenic bhlh gene expression in the somite.,we have demonstrated previously that a combination of signals from the neural tube and the floor plate/notochord complex synergistically induce the expression of myogenic bhlh genes and myogenic differentiation markers in unspecified somites. in this study we demonstrate that sonic hedgehog (shh)  which is expressed in the floor plate/notochord  and a subset of wnt family members (wnt-1  wnt-3  and wnt-4)  which are expressed in dorsal regions of the neural tube  mimic the muscle inducing activity of these tissues. in combination  shh and either wnt-1 or wnt-3 are sufficient to induce myogenesis in somitic tissue in vitro. therefore  we propose that myotome formation in vivo may be directed by the combinatorial activity of shh secreted by ventral midline tissues (floor plate and notochord) and wnt ligands secreted by the dorsal neural tube.
4700,dna methylation in embryonic stem cells.,embryonic stem cells (escs) are pluripotent  self-renewing cells. these cells can be used in applications such as cell therapy  drug development  disease modeling  and the study of cellular differentiation. investigating the interplay of epigenetics  genetics  and gene expression in control of pluripotence and differentiation could give important insights on how these cells function. one of the best known epigenetic factors is dna methylation  which is a major mechanism for regulation of gene expression. this phenomenon is mostly seen in imprinted genes and x-chromosome inactivation where dna methylation of promoter regions leads to repression of gene expression. differential dna methylation of pluripotence-associated genes such as nanog and oct4/pou5f1 has been observed between pluripotent and differentiated cells. it is clear that tight regulation of dna methylation is necessary for normal development. as more associations between aberrant dna methylation and disease are reported  the demand for high-throughput approaches for dna methylation analysis has increased. in this article  we highlight these methods and discuss recent dna methylation studies on escs.
4702,symmetric signalling within asymmetric dimers of the staphylococcus aureus receptor histidine kinase agrc.,virulence in staphylococcus aureus is largely under control of the accessory gene regulator (agr) quorum-sensing system. the agrc receptor histidine kinase detects its autoinducing peptide (aip) ligand and generates an intracellular signal resulting in secretion of virulence factors. although agr is a well-studied quorum-sensing system  little is known about the mechanism of agrc activation. by co-immunoprecipitation analysis and intermolecular complementation of receptor mutants  we showed that agrc forms ligand-independent dimers that undergo trans-autophosphorylation upon interaction with aip. remarkably  addition of specific aips to agrc mutant dimers with only one functional sensor domain caused symmetric activation of either kinase domain despite the sensor asymmetry. furthermore  mutant dimers involving one constitutive protomer demonstrated ligand-independent activity  irrespective of which protomer was kinase deficient. these results demonstrate that signalling through either individual agrc protomer causes symmetric activation of both kinase domains. we suggest that such signalling across the dimer interface may be an important mechanism for dimeric quorum-sensing receptors to rapidly elicit a response upon signal detection.
4704,sulfasalazine in the treatment of spondylarthropathy. a randomized  multicenter  double-blind  placebo-controlled study.,objective to assess the efficacy and tolerability of sulfasalazine (ssz) in the treatment of spondylarthropathy. methods we conducted a 6-month randomized  placebo-controlled  double-blind  multicenter study of patients with spondylarthropathy whose disease had remained active despite treatment with nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. patients were treated with ssz (3 gm/day) or placebo. the primary efficacy variables were the physician's and patient's overall assessments  pain  and morning stiffness. end points were analyzed in the intent-to-treat and completer patient populations; the time course of effect was analyzed in the completer patient population. results of the 351 patients enrolled  263 (75%) completed the 6-month treatment period. the withdrawal rates were 35 (20%) and 53 (30%) in the placebo and ssz groups  respectively. in the intent-to-treat analysis of end point efficacy  the between-treatment difference reached statistical significance only for 1 of the 4 primary outcome variables  the patient's overall assessment of disease activity  for which 60% of the patients taking ssz improved by at least 1 point on a 5-point scale  in contrast to 44% of the patients taking placebo. laboratory markers of inflammation also showed statistically significant change in favor of ssz. in subgroup analysis  the most impressive effects were seen in patients with psoriatic arthritis  both for the 4 primary efficacy variables and for secondary efficacy variables such as the number of inflamed joints. adverse events were more frequent in the ssz group than the placebo group  but all were transient or reversible after cessation of treatment. conclusion the results of this study show that ssz had greater efficacy than placebo in the treatment of active spondylarthropathy  notably in patients with psoriatic arthritis.
4706,the wilms tumour suppressor protein wt1 (+kts isoform) binds alpha-actinin 1 mrna via its zinc-finger domain.,mutations in wt1 are associated with developmental syndromes that affect the urogenital system and neoplasms  including wilms tumour  acute myeloid leukemia  and breast and prostate cancers. the wt1 protein belongs to the early growth response family of zinc-finger transcription factors. uniquely to wt1  an evolutionarily conserved alternative splice event inserts the tripeptide kts  between zinc fingers 3 and 4. whereas -kts isoforms bind dna and activate or repress transcription  +kts isoforms bind dna less efficiently and interact with splice factors and rna in vitro and in vivo. although candidate dna targets have been found  physiological mrna targets are yet to be defined. we examined the distribution of wt1 in ribonucleoprotein (rnp) complexes in nuclear extract prepared from m15 cells  a mouse mesonephric fetal kidney cell line. wt1 cofractionated with the splice factor psf in large rnp particles >or=2 mda. we also found that psf co-immunoprecipitated with wt1  suggesting a functional interaction between these 2 multifunctional proteins. using yeast three-hybrid library constructed from the co-immunoprecipitated rna we found that wt1 (+kts) binds close to or at the start codon of alpha-actinin 1 (actn1) mrna. a band shift assay confirmed the ability of the wt1 zinc-finger domain (+kts) to bind this sequence in vitro. actn1 is the first likely physiological mrna target of wt1.
4708,health benefits  costs  and cost-effectiveness of earlier eligibility for adult antiretroviral therapy and expanded treatment coverage: a combined analysis of 12 mathematical models.,background new who guidelines recommend art initiation for hiv-positive persons with cd4 cell counts ≤500 cells/µl  a higher threshold than was previously recommended. country decision makers must consider whether to further expand art eligibility accordingly. methods we used multiple independent mathematical models in four settings-south africa  zambia  india  and vietnam-to evaluate the potential health impact  costs  and cost-effectiveness of different adult art eligibility criteria under scenarios of current and expanded treatment coverage  with results projected over 20 years. analyses considered extending eligibility to include individuals with cd4 ≤500 cells/µl or all hiv-positive adults  compared to the previous recommendation of initiation with cd4 ≤350 cells/µl. we assessed costs from a health system perspective  and calculated the incremental cost per daly averted ($/daly) to compare competing strategies. strategies were considered 'very cost-effective' if the $/daly was less than the country's per capita gross domestic product (gdp; south africa: $8040  zambia: $1425  india: $1489  vietnam: $1407) and 'cost-effective' if $/daly was less than three times per capita gdp. findings in south africa  the cost per daly averted of extending art eligibility to cd4 ≤500 cells/µl ranged from $237 to $1691/daly compared to 2010 guidelines; in zambia  expanded eligibility ranged from improving health outcomes while reducing costs (i.e. dominating current guidelines) to $749/daly. results were similar in scenarios with substantially expanded treatment access and for expanding eligibility to all hiv-positive adults. expanding treatment coverage in the general population was therefore found to be cost-effective. in india  eligibility for all hiv-positive persons ranged from $131 to $241/daly and in vietnam eligibility for cd4 ≤500 cells/µl cost $290/daly. in concentrated epidemics  expanded access among key populations was also cost-effective. interpretation earlier art eligibility is estimated to be very cost-effective in low- and middle-income settings  although these questions should be revisited as further information becomes available. scaling-up art should be considered among other high-priority health interventions competing for health budgets. funding the bill and melinda gates foundation and world health organization.
4710,survival in a case of massive paraquat ingestion.,serious exposure to the herbicide paraquat usually results in death  either due to gastrointestinal caustic lesions  shock  and acute respiratory distress syndrome or related to the progressive development of pulmonary fibrosis associated with refractory hypoxemia. we report a case of suicidal paraquat ingestion in a 59-year-old man. most of the indicators of poor prognosis were encountered in this patient. treatment consisted of early digestive decontamination and hemodialysis  followed by antioxidant therapy  including the administration of deferoxamine (100 mg/kg in 24 h) and a continuous infusion of acetylcysteine (300 mg/kg/d during 3 weeks). the patient only developed a nonoliguric acute renal failure  a mild alteration of liver tests  and an impairment of co transfer factor without any respiratory complaint. renal and hepatic disturbances completely resolved within 1 month  whereas co transfer factor remained altered 14 months later. this observation suggests that early administration of an antioxidant therapy  including deferoxamine and acetylcysteine could be usefully associated with measures that prevent digestive absorption or enhance elimination to limit systemic toxicity in potentially fatal paraquat poisoning.
4712,eating pathology  emotion regulation  and emotional overeating in obese adults with binge eating disorder.,objective the purpose of the current study was to examine the relationship among emotional regulation  emotional overeating  and general eating pathology in a treatment seeking sample of adults with binge eating disorder (bed). method the sample was composed of 326 adults (248 women  78 men) who were obese and met dsm-iv-tr criteria for bed. prior to treatment  participants completed the difficulties in emotion regulation scale (ders)  emotional overeating questionnaire (eoq)  beck depression inventory (bdi)  and eating disorder examination-questionnaire (ede-q) as part of a larger assessment battery. results a series of hierarchical regression analyses indicated that difficulties with emotion regulation accounted for unique variance in both emotional overeating and general eating pathology above and beyond sex and negative affect. discussion emotion regulation may play a significant role in the maintenance of emotional overeating and eating pathology in obese adults with bed.
4714,functional in vivo interactions between jnk1 and jnk2 isoforms in obesity and insulin resistance.,the c-jun n-terminal kinases (jnks) are key regulators of inflammation and interfere with insulin action in cultured cells and whole animals. obesity increases total jnk activity  and jnk1  but not jnk2  deficiency results in reduced adiposity and improved insulin sensitivity. interestingly  a higher-than-normal level of jnk activation is observed in jnk2(-/-) mice  particularly in the liver  indicating an interaction between the isoforms that might have masked the metabolic activity of jnk2 in isolated mutant mice. to address the role of the jnk2 isoform in metabolic homeostasis  we intercrossed jnk1(-/-) and jnk2(-/-) mice and examined body weight and glucose metabolism in the resulting mutant allele combinations. among all of the viable genotypes examined  we observed only reduced body weight and increased insulin sensitivity in jnk1(-/-) and jnk1(+/-)jnk2(-/-) mice. these two groups of mice also exhibited reduced total jnk activity and cytokine expression in liver tissue compared with all other genotypes examined. these data indicate that the jnk2 isoform is also involved in metabolic regulation  but its function is not obvious when jnk1 is fully expressed because of regulatory crosstalk between the two isoforms.
4716,compromised intestinal epithelial barrier induces adaptive immune compensation that protects from colitis.,mice lacking junctional adhesion molecule a (jam-a  encoded by f11r) exhibit enhanced intestinal epithelial permeability  bacterial translocation  and elevated colonic lymphocyte numbers  yet do not develop colitis. to investigate the contribution of adaptive immune compensation in response to increased intestinal epithelial permeability  we examined the susceptibility of f11r(-/-)rag1(-/-) mice to acute colitis. although negligible contributions of adaptive immunity in f11r(+/+)rag1(-/-) mice were observed  f11r(-/-)rag1(-/-) mice exhibited increased microflora-dependent colitis. elimination of t cell subsets and cytokine analyses revealed a protective role for tgf-β-producing cd4(+) t cells in f11r(-/-) mice. additionally  loss of jam-a resulted in elevated mucosal and serum iga that was dependent upon cd4(+) t cells and tgf-β. absence of iga in f11r(+/+)igha(-/-) mice did not affect disease  whereas f11r(-/-)igha(-/-) mice displayed markedly increased susceptibility to acute injury-induced colitis. these data establish a role for adaptive immune-mediated protection from acute colitis under conditions of intestinal epithelial barrier compromise.
4718,nc-100717: a versatile rgd peptide scaffold for angiogenesis imaging.,targeting the molecular pathways associated with angiogenesis offers great potential in detecting disease pathology using in vivo imaging technologies. initiation of angiogenesis requires activation and migration of endothelial cells in order for neovascularization to proceed. endothelial cells associate with the extracellular matrix through specific interactions with a variety of cell adhesion receptors known as integrins. peptides containing the tripeptide sequence rgd are known to bind with high affinity to the alphavbeta3 and alphavbeta5 integrins associated with angiogenesis. we present herein the synthesis and in vitro binding affinity of the rgd-containing peptide nc-100717 and a range of molecular probes derived from this intermediate.
4720,comparison of allogeneic vs autologous bone marrow–derived mesenchymal stem cells delivered by transendocardial injection in patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy: the poseidon randomized trial.,context mesenchymal stem cells (mscs) are under evaluation as a therapy for ischemic cardiomyopathy (icm). both autologous and allogeneic msc therapies are possible; however  their safety and efficacy have not been compared. objective to test whether allogeneic mscs are as safe and effective as autologous mscs in patients with left ventricular (lv) dysfunction due to icm. design  setting  and patients a phase 1/2 randomized comparison (poseidon study) in a us tertiary-care referral hospital of allogeneic and autologous mscs in 30 patients with lv dysfunction due to icm between april 2  2010  and september 14  2011  with 13-month follow-up. intervention twenty million  100 million  or 200 million cells (5 patients in each cell type per dose level) were delivered by transendocardial stem cell injection into 10 lv sites. main outcome measures thirty-day postcatheterization incidence of predefined treatment-emergent serious adverse events (saes). efficacy assessments included 6-minute walk test  exercise peak vo2  minnesota living with heart failure questionnaire (mlhfq)  new york heart association class  lv volumes  ejection fraction (ef)  early enhancement defect (eed; infarct size)  and sphericity index. results within 30 days  1 patient in each group (treatment-emergent sae rate  6.7%) was hospitalized for heart failure  less than the prespecified stopping event rate of 25%. the 1-year incidence of saes was 33.3% (n = 5) in the allogeneic group and 53.3% (n = 8) in the autologous group (p = .46). at 1 year  there were no ventricular arrhythmia saes observed among allogeneic recipients compared with 4 patients (26.7%) in the autologous group (p = .10). relative to baseline  autologous but not allogeneic msc therapy was associated with an improvement in the 6-minute walk test and the mlhfq score  but neither improved exercise vo2 max. allogeneic and autologous mscs reduced mean eed by −33.21% (95% ci  −43.61% to −22.81%; p < .001) and sphericity index but did not increase ef. allogeneic mscs reduced lv end-diastolic volumes. low-dose concentration mscs (20 million cells) produced greatest reductions in lv volumes and increased ef. allogeneic mscs did not stimulate significant donor-specific alloimmune reactions. conclusions in this early-stage study of patients with icm  transendocardial injection of allogeneic and autologous mscs without a placebo control were both associated with low rates of treatment-emergent saes  including immunologic reactions. in aggregate  msc injection favorably affected patient functional capacity  quality of life  and ventricular remodeling. trial registration clinicaltrials.gov identifier: nct01087996.
4722,triglyceride depletion of brown adipose tissue enables analysis of mitochondrial respiratory function in permeabilized biopsies.,the research on mitochondrial functions in adipocytes has increasingly evidenced that mitochondria plays an important role in the onset and/or progression of obesity and related pathologies. mitochondrial function in brown adipose tissue (bat) has been classically assessed by measuring either the levels/activity of mitochondrial enzymes  or the respiration in isolated mitochondria. isolation of mitochondria is not advantageous because it demands significant time and amount of tissue and  as tissue homogenates  disrupts biochemical and physical connections of mitochondria within the cell. here  we described a new and efficient protocol to analyze the mitochondrial respiratory states in bat biopsies that relies on intracellular triglyceride depletion followed by tissue permeabilization. in addition to minimizing tissue requirements to ∼17 mg wet weight  the proposed protocol enabled analysis of all mitochondrial respiratory states  including phosphorylation (oxphos)  no-phosphorylation (leak)  and uncoupled (ets) states  as well as the use of substrates for complex i  complex ii  and cytochrome c; together  these features demonstrated mitochondrial integrity and validated the preparation efficacy. therefore  the protocol described here increases the possibilities of answering physiological questions related to small bat regions of human and animal models  which shall help to unravel the mechanisms that regulate mitochondrial function in health and disease.
4724,measuring absolute rna copy numbers at high temporal resolution reveals transcriptome kinetics in development.,transcript regulation is essential for cell function  and misregulation can lead to disease. despite technologies to survey the transcriptome  we lack a comprehensive understanding of transcript kinetics  which limits quantitative biology. this is an acute challenge in embryonic development  where rapid changes in gene expression dictate cell fate decisions. by ultra-high-frequency sampling of xenopus embryos and absolute normalization of sequence reads  we present smooth gene expression trajectories in absolute transcript numbers. during a developmental period approximating the first 8 weeks of human gestation  transcript kinetics vary by eight orders of magnitude. ordering genes by expression dynamics  we find that "temporal synexpression" predicts common gene function. remarkably  a single parameter  the characteristic timescale  can classify transcript kinetics globally and distinguish genes regulating development from those involved in cellular metabolism. overall  our analysis provides unprecedented insight into the reorganization of maternal and embryonic transcripts and redefines our ability to perform quantitative biology.
4726,infection and apoptosis as a combined inflammatory trigger.,while inflammatory phagocytosis of microbial pathogens and non-inflammatory phagocytosis of apoptotic cells have each been studied extensively  the consequences of innate immune recognition of host cells undergoing apoptosis as a direct result of infection are unclear. in this situation  the innate immune system is confronted with mixed signals  those from apoptotic cells and those from the infecting pathogen. nuclear receptor activation has been implicated downstream of apoptotic cell recognition while toll-like receptors are the prototypical inflammatory receptors engaged during infection. when the two signals combine  a new set of events takes place beginning with transrepression of a subset of inflammatory-response genes and ending with the induction of a t helper-17 adaptive immune response. this response is best suited for clearing the infecting pathogen and repairing the damage that occurred to the host tissue during infection.
4728,risk factors for the development of gallstone recurrence following medical dissolution. the british-italian gallstone study group.,objective to assess risk factors for gallstone recurrence following non-surgical treatment. design a prospective follow-up of a multicentre cohort of post-dissolution gallstone patients. setting six gastroenterology units in the uk and italy. participants one hundred and sixty-three patients with confirmed gallstone dissolution following non-surgical therapy (bile acids or lithotripsy plus bile acids)  followed up by ultrasound scan and clinical assessment at 6-monthly intervals for up to 6 years (median  25 months; range  6-70 months). outcome measures subject-related variables (sex  age  height  weight  body mass index)  gallstone-related variables (number  diameter  presence of symptoms  months to complete stone clearance)  treatment modalities (bile acid therapy  extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy) and follow-up related variables (weight change  use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents  statins  pregnancies and/or use of oestrogens) were assessed by univariate and multivariate analysis as putative risk factors for gallstone recurrence. results forty-five gallstone recurrences were observed during the follow-up period. multiple primary gallstones and length of time to achieve gallstone dissolution were the only variables associated with a significant increase in the recurrence rate. appearance of biliary sludge during follow-up was also significantly related to development of gallstone recurrence. use of statins or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents did not confer protection against recurrence. conclusions patients with primary single stones are the best candidates for non-surgical treatment of gallstones  because of a low risk of gallstone recurrence. the positive association of recurrence with biliary sludge formation and time to dissolution of primary stones may provide indirect confirmation for the role of impaired gallbladder motility in the pathogenesis of this condition.
4730,conventional and monocyte-derived cd11b(+) dendritic cells initiate and maintain t helper 2 cell-mediated immunity to house dust mite allergen.,dendritic cells (dcs) are crucial for mounting allergic airway inflammation  but it is unclear which subset of dcs performs this task. by using cd64 and mar-1 staining  we reliably separated cd11b(+) monocyte-derived dcs (modcs) from conventional dcs (cdcs) and studied antigen uptake  migration  and presentation assays of lung and lymph node (ln) dcs in response to inhaled house dust mite (hdm). mainly cd11b(+) cdcs but not cd103(+) cdcs induced t helper 2 (th2) cell immunity in hdm-specific t cells in vitro and asthma in vivo. studies in flt3l(-/-) mice  lacking all cdcs  revealed that modcs were also sufficient to induce th2 cell-mediated immunity but only when high-dose hdm was given. the main function of modcs was the production of proinflammatory chemokines and allergen presentation in the lung during challenge. thus  we have identified migratory cd11b(+) cdcs as the principal subset inducing th2 cell-mediated immunity in the ln  whereas modcs orchestrate allergic inflammation in the lung.
4732,cancer stem cells in solid tumours: accumulating evidence and unresolved questions,solid tumours are an enormous cancer burden and a major therapeutic challenge. the cancer stem cell (csc) hypothesis provides an attractive cellular mechanism to account for the therapeutic refractoriness and dormant behaviour exhibited by many of these tumours. there is increasing evidence that diverse solid tumours are hierarchically organized and sustained by a distinct subpopulation of cscs. direct evidence for the csc hypothesis has recently emerged from mouse models of epithelial tumorigenesis  although alternative models of heterogeneity also seem to apply. the clinical relevance of cscs remains a fundamental issue but preliminary findings indicate that specific targeting may be possible.
4734,the activity of sirna in mammalian cells is related to structural target accessibility: a comparison with antisense oligonucleotides.,the biological activity of sirna seems to be influenced by local characteristics of the target rna  including local rna folding. here  we investigated quantitatively the relationship between local target accessibility and the extent of inhibition of the target gene by sirna. target accessibility was assessed by a computational approach that had been shown earlier to be consistent with experimental probing of target rna. two sites of icam-1 mrna predicted to serve as accessible motifs and one site predicted to adopt an inaccessible structure were chosen to test sirna constructs for suppression of icam-1 gene expression in ecv304 cells. the local target-dependent effectiveness of sirna was compared with antisense oligonucleotides (ason). the concentration dependency of sirna-mediated suppression indicates a >1000-fold difference between active sirnas (ic50 approximately 0.2-0.5 nm) versus an inactive sirna (ic50 > or = 1 microm) which is consistent with the activity pattern of ason when relating target suppression to predicted local target accessibility. the extremely high activity of the sirna si2b (ic50 = 0.24 nm) indicates that not all sirnas shown to be active at the usual concentrations of >10-100 nm belong to this highly active species. the observations described here suggest an option to assess target accessibility for sirna and  thus  support the design of active sirna constructs. this approach can be automated  work at high throughput and is open to include additional parameters relevant to the biological activity of sirna.
4736,archaeal chromatin and transcription.,archaea contain a variety of sequence-independent dna binding proteins consistent with the evolution of several different  sometimes overlapping and exchangeable solutions to the problem of genome compaction. some of these proteins undergo residue-specific post-translational lysine acetylation or methylation  hinting at analogues of the histone modifications that regulate eukaryotic chromatin structure and transcription. archaeal transcription initiation most closely resembles the eukaryotic rna polymerase ii (rnapii) system  but archaea do not appear to have homologues of the multisubunit complexes that remodel eukaryotic chromatin and activate rnapii initiation. in contrast  they have sequence-specific regulators that repress and perhaps activate archaeal transcription by mechanisms superficially similar to the bacterial paradigm of regulating promoter binding by rnap. repressors compete with archaeal tata-box binding protein (tbp) and tfb for the tata-box and tfb-recognition elements (bre) of the archaeal promoter  or with archaeal rnap for the site of transcription initiation. transcript-specific regulation by repressors binding to sites of transcript initiation is consistent with such sites having very little sequence conservation. however  most archaea have only one tbp and/or tfb that presumably must therefore bind to similar tata-box and bre sequences upstream of most genes. repressors that function by competing with tbp and/or tfb binding must therefore also make additional contacts with transcript-specific regulatory sites adjacent or remote from the tata-box/bre region. the fate of the archaeal tbp and tfb following transcription initiation remains to be determined. based on functional homology with their eukaryotic rnapii-system counterparts  archaeal tbp and possibly also tfb should remain bound to the tata-box/bre region after transcription initiation. however  this seems unlikely as it might limit repressor competition at this site to only the first round of transcription initiation.
4738,functional role of high-affinity anandamide transport  as revealed by selective inhibition.,anandamide  an endogenous ligand for central cannabinoid receptors  is released from neurons on depolarization and rapidly inactivated. anandamide inactivation is not completely understood  but it may occur by transport into cells or by enzymatic hydrolysis. the compound n-(4-hydroxyphenyl)arachidonylamide (am404) was shown to inhibit high-affinity anandamide accumulation in rat neurons and astrocytes in vitro  an indication that this accumulation resulted from carrier-mediated transport. although am404 did not activate cannabinoid receptors or inhibit anandamide hydrolysis  it enhanced receptor-mediated anandamide responses in vitro and in vivo. the data indicate that carrier-mediated transport may be essential for termination of the biological effects of anandamide  and may represent a potential drug target.
4740,immigration cohorts and residential overcrowding in southern california,to what degree do immigrants reduce their high rates of residential overcrowding with increasing length of residence in the united states? this question is addressed through the application of a “double cohort” method that nests birth cohorts within immigration cohorts. this method enables duration of immigration effects to be separated from aging effects as cohorts pass through life course phases  when family sizes may be growing or shrinking. the analysis finds that cohort trends differ sharply from the cross-sectional pattern observed at a single point in time. cohorts’ growth in income is found to contribute substantially to the decline in overcrowding over time. cohort trends among hispanic immigrants  however  diverge from those among others  indicating much less decrease in overcrowding and even increases over certain age spans.
4742,biological properties of herpes simplex virus 2 replication-defective mutant strains in a murine nasal infection model.,we used a mouse nasal model of herpes simplex virus 2 (hsv-2) infection to examine the biological properties of hsv-2 wild-type (wt)  tk-negative  and replication-defective strains in vivo. nasal septa tissue is the major site of wt viral replication post intranasal (i.n.) inoculation. the hsv-2 strain 186 syn(+)-1 wt virus caused lethal encephalitis at doses of 10(4) pfu and above per nostril  and at lower doses no neurons in the trigeminal ganglia were positive for the latency-associated transcript  indicating a lack of latent infection. the 186deltakpn tk-negative mutant virus replicated in nasal septa tissue but showed low-level replication in trigeminal ganglia at only one timepoint. in situ hybridization of trigeminal ganglia showed that the number of lat-positive neurons was proportional to the inoculum dose from 10(3) to 10(6) pfu per nare. the replication-defective mutant virus 5blacz showed no replication in nasal septa tissue and no persistence of viral dna at the inoculation site or the trigeminal ganglia. nevertheless  inoculation of 5blacz or the double-mutant dl5-29 at distal sites reduced acute replication and latent infection of 186deltakpn following intranasal challenge. this infection model provides a biological system to test the properties of hsv-2 strains and shows that replication-defective mutant strains do not persist at sites of inoculation or in sensory ganglia but can induce immune protection that reduces the latent viral load of a challenge virus.
4744,sustained survivin expression from ox40 costimulatory signals drives t cell clonal expansion.,sustained signaling from the t cell receptor (tcr) and costimulatory molecules is thought necessary for generating high numbers of effector t cells. here  we show that survivin is controlled in peripheral t cells by ox40 cosignaling via sustained pi3k and pkb activation. survivin is induced by ox40 independent of mitotic progression in late g1  and blocking survivin suppresses s-phase transition and division of t cells and leads to apoptosis. moreover  survivin expression alone is sufficient to restore proliferation and to antagonize apoptosis in costimulation-deficient t cells and can rescue t cell expansion in vivo. survivin allows effector t cells to accumulate in large numbers  but bcl-2 family proteins are required for t cell survival after the phase of active division. thus  sustained survivin expression from costimulatory signaling maintains t cell division over time and regulates the extent of clonal expansion.
4746,dual role of the il-12/ifn-gamma axis in the development of autoimmune myocarditis: induction by il-12 and protection by ifn-gamma.,il-12 and ifn-gamma positively regulate each other and type 1 inflammatory responses  which are believed to cause tissue damage in autoimmune diseases. we investigated the role of the il-12/ifn-gamma (th1) axis in the development of autoimmune myocarditis. il-12p40-deficient mice on a susceptible background resisted myocarditis. in the absence of il-12  autospecific cd4(+) t cells proliferated poorly and showed increased th2 cytokine responses. however  ifn-gamma-deficient mice developed fatal autoimmune disease  and blockade of il-4r signaling did not confer susceptibility to myocarditis in il-12p40-deficient mice  demonstrating that il-12 triggers autoimmunity by a mechanism independent of the effector cytokines ifn-gamma and il-4. in conclusion  our results suggest that the il-12/ifn-gamma axis is a double-edged sword for the development of autoimmune myocarditis. although il-12 mediates disease by induction/expansion of th1-type cells  ifn-gamma production from these cells limits disease progression.
4748,epidemiology  health-related quality of life and economic burden of binge eating disorder: a systematic literature review,purpose to perform a systematic review on the epidemiology  the health-related quality of life (hrqol) and economic burden of binge eating disorder (bed). methods a systematic literature search of english-language articles was conducted using medline  embase  psycinfo  psycarticles  academic search complete  cinahl plus  business source premier and cochrane library. literature search on epidemiology was limited to studies published between 2009 and 2013. cost data were inflated and converted to 2012 us$ purchasing power parities. all of the included studies were assessed for quality. results forty-nine articles were included. data on epidemiology were reported in 31  hrqol burden in 16  and economic burden in 7 studies. diagnosis of bed was made using 4th edition of the diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders (dsm-iv) criteria in 46 studies. lifetime prevalence of bed was 1.1-1.9% in the general population (dsm-iv). bed was associated with significant impairment in aspects of hrqol relating to both physical and mental health; the short form 36 physical and mental component summary mean scores varied between 31.1 to 47.3 and 32.0 to 49.8  respectively. compared to individuals without eating disorder  bed was related to increased healthcare utilization and costs. annual direct healthcare costs per bed patient ranged between $2 372 and $3 731. conclusions bed is a serious eating disorder that impairs hrqol and is related to increased healthcare utilization and healthcare costs. the limited literature warrants further research  especially to better understand the long-term hrqol and economic burden of bed.
4750,emt  the cytoskeleton  and cancer cell invasion,the metastatic process  i.e. the dissemination of cancer cells throughout the body to seed secondary tumors at distant sites  requires cancer cells to leave the primary tumor and to acquire migratory and invasive capabilities. in a process of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (emt)  besides changing their adhesive repertoire  cancer cells employ developmental processes to gain migratory and invasive properties that involve a dramatic reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton and the concomitant formation of membrane protrusions required for invasive growth. the molecular processes underlying such cellular changes are still only poorly understood  and the various migratory organelles  including lamellipodia  filopodia  invadopodia and podosomes  still require a better functional and molecular characterization. notably  direct experimental evidence linking the formation of migratory membrane protrusions and the process of emt and tumor metastasis is still lacking. in this review  we have summarized recent novel insights into the molecular processes and players underlying emt on one side and the formation of invasive membrane protrusions on the other side.
4752,structural features of the interaction of the 3'-untranslated region of mrna containing exosomal rna-specific motifs with yb-1  a potential mediator of mrna sorting.,we have previously shown that yb-1 is the only protein of the hek293 cell cytoplasmic (s100) extract that specifically interacts with rna hairpins each containing one of the motifs accagccu (1)  cagugagc (2) and uaauccca (3)  which had been identified as often found in exosomal rna and proposed as potential cis-acting elements targeting rnas into exosomes. here we explored the interactions of yb-1 with a fragment of the 3'-untranslated region (utr) of septin 14 mrna (sept14 rna)  which contains all three motifs. we demonstrated the occurrence of yb-1 among proteins pulled down from the hek293 s100 extract using biotinylated sept14 rna. with recombinant yb-1  it was found that sept14 rna can bind up to 5 moles of protein per mole of rna in a cooperative manner  which was shown to be mainly facilitated by the presence of the above motifs. rna hairpins with motifs 1 and 2 competed with sept14 rna for binding to the protein  whereas that with motif 3 was less competitive  in accordance with the affinity of yb-1 for these rna hairpins. with yb-1-bound rna  nucleotides protected from attack by hydroxyl radicals were revealed in all three motifs  although hairpins with motif 2 and especially with motif 1 contained many protected nucleotides outside the motifs  suggesting that the specific environments of these motifs contribute significantly to the yb-1 binding. an analysis of the environments of motifs 1-3 in the hek293 cell mrna 3' utrs gained from rna-seq data led us to conclude that the primary binding sites of yb-1 in the 3' utrs are hairpins containing some part of the motif along with its specific surroundings; the consensus sequences of these hairpins were derived. thus  our findings provide a new understanding of the structural basis of the interactions between yb-1 and mrnas carrying the aforementioned motifs.
4754,staphylococcus aureus infections.,micrococcus  which  when limited in its extent and activity  causes acute suppurative inflammation (phlegmon)  produces  when more extensive and intense in its action on the human system  the most virulent forms of septicaemia and pyaemia.1 in an elegant series of clinical observations and laboratory studies published in 1880 and 1882  ogston described staphylococcal disease and its role in sepsis and abscess formation.1 2 more than 100 years later  staphylococcus aureus remains a versatile and dangerous pathogen in humans. the frequencies of both community-acquired and hospital-acquired staphylococcal infections have increased steadily  with little change in overall mortality. treatment of these infections . . .
4756,differential assembly of inwardly rectifying k+ channel subunits  kir4.1 and kir5.1  in brain astrocytes.,the inwardly rectifying k+ channel subunit kir5.1 is expressed abundantly in the brain  but its precise distribution and function are still largely unknown. because kir5.1 is co-expressed with kir4.1 in retinal glial muller cells  we have compared the biochemical and immunological properties of kir5.1 and kir4.1 in the mouse brain. immunoprecipitation experiments suggested that brain expressed at least two subsets of kir channels  heteromeric kir4.1/5.1 and homomeric kir4.1. immunolabeling using specific antibodies showed that channels comprising kir4.1 and kir5.1 subunits were assembled in a region-specific fashion. heteromeric kir4.1/5.1 was identified in the neocortex and in the glomeruli of the olfactory bulb. homomeric kir4.1 was confined to the hippocampus and the thalamus. homomeric kir5.1 was not identified. kir4.1/5.1 and kir4.1 expression appeared to occur only in astrocytes  specifically in the membrane domains facing the pia mater and blood vessels or in the processes surrounding synapses. both kir4.1/5.1 and kir4.1 could be associated with pdz domain-containing syntrophins  which might be involved in the subcellular targeting of these astrocyte kir channels. because heteromeric kir4.1/5.1 and homomeric kir4.1 have distinct ion channel properties (tanemoto  m.  kittaka  n.  inanobe  a.  and kurachi  y. (2000) j. physiol. (lond.) 525  587-592 and tucker  s. j.  imbrici  p.  salvatore  l.  d'adamo  m. c.  and pessia  m. (2000) j. biol. chem. 275  16404-16407)  it is plausible that these channels play differential physiological roles in the k+ -buffering action of brain astrocytes in a region-specific manner.
4758,renal outcomes with different fixed-dose combination therapies in patients with hypertension at high risk for cardiovascular events (accomplish): a prespecified secondary analysis of a randomised controlled trial.,background the avoiding cardiovascular events through combination therapy in patients living with systolic hypertension (accomplish) trial showed that initial antihypertensive therapy with benazepril plus amlodipine was superior to benazepril plus hydrochlorothiazide in reducing cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. we assessed the effects of these drug combinations on progression of chronic kidney disease. methods accomplish was a double-blind  randomised trial undertaken in five countries (usa  sweden  norway  denmark  and finland). 11 506 patients with hypertension who were at high risk for cardiovascular events were randomly assigned via a central  telephone-based interactive voice response system in a 1:1 ratio to receive benazepril (20 mg) plus amlodipine (5 mg; n=5744) or benazepril (20 mg) plus hydrochlorothiazide (12.5 mg; n=5762)  orally once daily. drug doses were force-titrated for patients to attain recommended blood pressure goals. progression of chronic kidney disease  a prespecified endpoint  was defined as doubling of serum creatinine concentration or end-stage renal disease (estimated glomerular filtration rate <15 ml/min/1.73 m(2) or need for dialysis). analysis was by intention to treat (itt). this trial is registered with clinicaltrials.gov  number nct00170950. findings the trial was terminated early (mean follow-up 2.9 years [sd 0.4]) because of superior efficacy of benazepril plus amlodipine compared with benazepril plus hydrochlorothiazide. at trial completion  vital status was not known for 143 (1%) patients who were lost to follow-up (benazepril plus amlodipine  n=70; benazepril plus hydrochlorothiazide  n=73). all randomised patients were included in the itt analysis. there were 113 (2.0%) events of chronic kidney disease progression in the benazepril plus amlodipine group compared with 215 (3.7%) in the benazepril plus hydrochlorothiazide group (hr 0.52  0.41-0.65  p<0.0001). the most frequent adverse event in patients with chronic kidney disease was peripheral oedema (benazepril plus amlodipine  189 of 561  33.7%; benazepril plus hydrochlorothiazide  85 of 532  16.0%). in patients with chronic kidney disease  angio-oedema was more frequent in the benazepril plus amlodipine group than in the benazepril plus hydrochlorothiazide group. in patients without chronic kidney disease  dizziness  hypokalaemia  and hypotension were more frequent in the benazepril plus hydrochlorothiazide group than in the benazepril plus amlodipine group. interpretation initial antihypertensive treatment with benazepril plus amlodipine should be considered in preference to benazepril plus hydrochlorothiazide since it slows progression of nephropathy to a greater extent. funding novartis.
4760,acute respiratory failure in patients with severe community-acquired pneumonia: a prospective randomized evaluation of noninvasive ventilation.,in uncontrolled studies  noninvasive positive pressure ventilation (nppv) was found useful in avoiding endotracheal intubation in patients with acute respiratory failure (arf) caused by severe community-acquired pneumonia (cap). we conducted a prospective  randomized study comparing standard treatment plus nppv delivered through a face mask to standard treatment alone in patients with severe cap and arf. patients fitting the american thoracic society criteria for severe cap were included in presence of arf (refractory hypoxemia and/or hypercapnia with acidosis). exclusion criteria were: severe hemodynamic instability  requirement for emergent cardiopulmonary resuscitation  home mechanical ventilation or oxygen long-term supplementation  concomitant severe disease with a low expectation of life  inability to expectorate or contraindications to the use of the mask. fifty-six consecutive patients (28 in each arm) were enrolled  and the two groups were similar at study entry. the use of nppv was well tolerated  safe  and associated with a significant reduction in respiratory rate  need for endotracheal intubation (21% versus 50%; p = 0.03)  and duration of intensive care unit (icu) stay (1.8 ± 0.7 d versus 6 ± 1.8 d; p = 0.04). the two groups had a similar intensity of nursing care workload  time interval from study entry to endotracheal intubation  duration of hospitalization  and hospital mortality. among patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd)  those randomized to nppv had a lower intensity of nursing care workload (p = 0.04) and improved 2-mo survival (88.9% versus 37.5%; p = 0.05). we conclude that in selected patients with arf caused by severe cap  nppv was associated with a significant reduction in the rate of endotracheal intubation and duration of icu stay. a 2-mo survival advantage was seen in patients with copd.
4762,parasite multiplication potential and the severity of falciparum malaria.,the multiplication rates and invasiveness of plasmodium falciparum parasites isolated from adult thai patients hospitalized with uncomplicated malaria (n=34) were compared with those from persons with severe malaria (n=42). to simulate severe malaria and control for host effects  the in vitro cultures were adjusted to 1% parasitemia and used the same red blood cell donor. p. falciparum isolates from persons with severe malaria had initial cycle multiplication rates in vitro that were 3-fold higher than those from uncomplicated malaria (median [95% confidence interval]  8.3 [7. 1-10.5] vs. 2.8 [1.7-3.9]; p=.001). parasites causing severe malaria exhibited unrestricted red blood cell invasion  whereas those from uncomplicated malaria were restricted to a geometric mean of 40 (31%-53%) of red blood cells. p. falciparum parasites causing severe malaria were less selective and multiplied more at high parasitemias than those causing uncomplicated malaria.
4764,economic implications of nighttime attending intensivist coverage in a medical intensive care unit.,objective our objective was to assess the cost implications of changing the intensive care unit staffing model from on-demand presence to mandatory 24-hr in-house critical care specialist presence. design a pre-post comparison was undertaken among the prospectively assessed cohorts of patients admitted to our medical intensive care unit 1 yr before and 1 yr after the change. our data were stratified by acute physiology and chronic health evaluation iii quartile and whether a patient was admitted during the day or at night. costs were modeled using a generalized linear model with log-link and γ-distributed errors. setting a large academic center in the midwest. patients all patients admitted to the adult medical intensive care unit on or after january 1  2005 and discharged on or before december 31  2006. patients receiving care under both staffing models were excluded. intervention changing the intensive care unit staffing model from on-demand presence to mandatory 24-hr in-house critical care specialist presence. measurements and main results total cost estimates of hospitalization were calculated for each patient starting from the day of intensive care unit admission to the day of hospital discharge. adjusted mean total cost estimates were 61% lower in the post period relative to the pre period for patients admitted during night hours (7 pm to 7 am) who were in the highest acute physiology and chronic health evaluation iii quartile. no significant differences were seen at other severity levels. the unadjusted intensive care unit length of stay fell in the post period relative to the pre period (3.5 vs. 4.8) with no change in non-intensive care unit length of stay. conclusions we find that 24-hr intensive care unit intensivist staffing reduces lengths of stay and cost estimates for the sickest patients admitted at night. the costs of introducing such a staffing model need to be weighed against the potential total savings generated for such patients in smaller intensive care units  especially ones that predominantly care for lower-acuity patients.
4766,systemic biomarkers in exacerbations of copd: the evolving clinical challenge.,background exacerbations of copd (ecopd) remain a major cause of mortality and morbidity. despite advances in the understanding of their pathophysiology  their assessment relies primarily on clinical presentation  which can be variable and difficult to predict. a large number of biomarkers already have been assessed in this context  and some appear to be promising. methods an online search for articles published until december 2010 was conducted using three terms for ecopd  five terms for biomarkers  and five terms for the sampling method. biomarkers were evaluated for their potential role in the establishment and confirmation of the diagnosis of ecopd  the evaluation of etiology and severity  the prediction of prognosis  and the guidance of treatment decisions. results several systemic biomarkers have been measured in the context of ecopd  and most have been found to increase at ecopd onset and to subside during the course of exacerbations. correlations have been reported among these biomarkers  but direct associations with clinical variables have been more difficult to establish. although there are several limitations yet to be addressed  some of the biomarkers  most notably c-reactive protein for the identification of an ecopd and procalcitonin for antibiotic guidance  may provide clinically relevant information. conclusions so far   no single biomarker has been able to gain wide acceptance  but some provide clinically useful information. the evaluation of such biomarkers in large decision-making studies is expected to become an area of intense investigation in the near future.
4768,the tumor necrosis factor receptor stalk regions define responsiveness to soluble versus membrane-bound ligand.,the family of tumor necrosis factor receptors (tnfrs) and their ligands form a regulatory signaling network that controls immune responses. various members of this receptor family respond differently to the soluble and membrane-bound forms of their respective ligands. however  the determining factors and underlying molecular mechanisms of this diversity are not yet understood. using an established system of chimeric tnfrs and novel ligand variants mimicking the bioactivity of membrane-bound tnf (mtnf)  we demonstrate that the membrane-proximal extracellular stalk regions of tnfr1 and tnfr2 are crucial in controlling responsiveness to soluble tnf (stnf). we show that the stalk region of tnfr2  in contrast to the corresponding part of tnfr1  efficiently inhibits both the receptor's enrichment/clustering in particular cell membrane regions and ligand-independent homotypic receptor preassembly  thereby preventing stnf-induced  but not mtnf-induced  signaling. thus  the stalk regions of the two tnfrs not only have implications for additional tnfr family members  but also provide potential targets for therapeutic intervention.
4770,the role of chmp2bintron5 in autophagy and frontotemporal dementia.,charged multivesicular body protein 2b (chmp2b) - a component of the endosomal complex required for transport-iii (escrt-iii) - is responsible for the vital membrane deformation functions in autophagy and endolysosomal trafficking. a dominant mutation in chmp2b (chmp2bintron5) is associated with a subset of heritable frontotemporal dementia - frontotemporal dementia linked to chromosome 3 (ftd-3). escrt-iii recruits vps4  an aaa-atpase that abscises the membrane during various cellular processes including autophagy and intraluminal vesicle formation. chmp2bintron5 results in a c-terminus truncation removing an important vps4 binding site as well as eliminating the normal autoinhibitory resting state of chmp2b. chmp2b is expressed in most cell types but seems to be especially vital for proper neuronal function. chmp2bintron5-mediated phenotypes include misregulation of transmembrane receptors  accumulation of multilamellar structures  abnormal lysosomal morphology  down regulation of a brain-specific micro rna (mirna-124)  abnormal dendritic spine morphology  decrease in dendritic arborization  and cell death. currently  transgenic-fly -mouse  and -human cell lines are being used to better understand the diverse phenotypes and develop therapeutic approaches for the chmp2bintron5-induced ftd-3. this article is part of a special issue entitled si:autophagy.
4772,impact of the ku80 pathway on nhej-induced genome rearrangements in mammalian cells.,using a substrate measuring deletion or inversion of an i-scei-excised fragment and both accurate and inaccurate rejoining  we determined the impact of non-homologous end-joining (nhej) on mammalian chromosome rearrangements. deletion is 2- to 8-fold more efficient than inversion  independent of the dna ends structure. ku80 controls accurate rejoining  whereas in absence of ku mutagenic rejoining  particularly microhomology-mediated repair  occurs efficiently. in cells bearing both the nhej and a homologous recombination (hr) substrate containing a third i-scei site  we show that nhej is at least 3.3-fold more efficient than hr  and translocation of the i-scei fragment from the nhej substrate locus into the hr-i-scei site can occur  but 50- to 100-fold less frequently than deletion. deletions and translocations show both accurate and inaccurate rejoining  suggesting that they correspond to a mix of ku-dependent and ku-independent processes. thus these processes should represent prominent pathways for dsb-induced genetic instability in mammalian cells.
4774,knowledge  attitudes  risk perception  and cancer screening behaviors among cancer survivors.,background knowledge  attitudes  and risk perception in relation to second primary cancer (spc) screening and their impact on screening practices in cancer survivors are largely unknown. methods a total of 326 cancer survivors who had completed primary treatment for cancer >1 year previously were recruited from 6 oncology care outpatient clinics in the republic of korea. survivors' knowledge  attitudes  perceived risk  and screening practices were assessed along with sociodemographic  behavioral  and clinical characteristics. multivariate logistic regression was used to examine behavioral factors associated with the completion of all appropriate spc screening according to national guidelines. results approximately 37.7% of survivors had undergone all appropriate spc screening tests. survivors were found to have a high perceived risk of spc  high perceived benefits of screening  and positive attitudes toward cancer screening. however  they had limited knowledge regarding spc screening tests and few had received a recommendation from a physician to undergo spc screening. although there was no association found between perceived risk and positive attitudes with screening behavior  higher knowledge was noted to be significantly associated with the completion of all appropriate spc screening (adjusted odds ratio  1.81; 95% confidence interval  1.03-3.33). conclusions in the current study  cancer survivors were found to have limited knowledge regarding second cancer screening tests  which may have resulted in lower rates of completion of screening practices in this population.
4776,the intestinal immune system in obesity and insulin resistance.,obesity and insulin resistance are associated with chronic inflammation in metabolic tissues such as adipose tissue and the liver. recently  growing evidence has implicated the intestinal immune system as an important contributor to metabolic disease. obesity predisposes to altered intestinal immunity and is associated with changes to the gut microbiota  intestinal barrier function  gut-residing innate and adaptive immune cells  and oral tolerance to luminal antigens. accordingly  the gut immune system may represent a novel therapeutic target for systemic inflammation in insulin resistance. this review discusses the emerging field of intestinal immunity in obesity-related insulin resistance and how it affects metabolic disease.
4778,low antioxidant enzyme gene expression in pancreatic islets compared with various other mouse tissues.,using a sensitive northern blot hybridization technique  gene expression of superoxide dismutase (sod)  catalase  and glutathione peroxidase was studied in pancreatic islets and for comparison in various other mouse tissues (liver  kidney  brain  lung  skeletal muscle  heart muscle  adrenal gland  and pituitary gland). gene expression of the antioxidant enzymes was usually in the range of +/- 50% of that in the liver. only in pancreatic islets gene expression was substantially lower. the levels of the cytoplasmic cu/zn sod and the mitochondrial mn sod gene expression were in the range of 30-40% of those in the liver. glutathione peroxidase gene expression was 15%  and catalase gene expression was not at all detectable in pancreatic islets. these low levels of antioxidant enzyme gene expression may provide an explanation for the extraordinary sensitivity of pancreatic beta cells towards cytotoxic damage by diabetogenic compounds and during the development of human and animal diabetes.
4780,exercise-induced asthma.,the effect of exercise on ventilatory function was studied in 7 patients with asthma. three showed appreciable decrease in forced expiratory volume in one second (fev 1) after exercise. the degree of hyperventilation produced by exercise correlated with the postexercise decrease in fev 1. voluntary hyperventilation at rest produced a decrease in fev 1 in all patients with asthma. breathing 5.6 per cent carbon dioxide during voluntary hyperventilation instead of room air induced a larger ventilation and greater decrease in fev1. neither exercise nor voluntary hyperventilation had any significant effect on the fev 1 in normal subjects and patients with chronic bronchitis. both exercise·induced and hyperventilation-induced decrease in fev 1 were inhibited by prior administration of isoproterenol but not by atropine. it is postulated that exercise-induced asthma is probably hyperventilation-induced asthma. several underlying mechanisms by which airway obstruction is produced are possible.
4782,directional perception of distributed sound sources.,the perception of spatially distributed sound sources was investigated by conducting two listening experiments in anechoic conditions with 13 loudspeakers evenly distributed in the frontal horizontal plane emitting incoherent noise signals. in the first experiment  widely distributed sound sources with gaps in their distribution emitted pink noise. the results indicated that the exact loudspeaker distribution could not be perceived accurately and that the width of the distribution was perceived to be narrower than it was in reality. up to three spatially distributed loudspeakers that were simultaneously emitting sound could be individually perceived. in addition  the number of loudspeakers that were indicated as emitting sound was smaller than the actual number. in the second experiment  a reference with 13 loudspeakers and test cases with fewer loudspeakers were presented and their perceived spatial difference was rated. the effect of the noise bandwidth was of particular interest. noise with different bandwidths centered around 500 and 4000 hz was used. the results indicated that when the number of loudspeakers was increased from four to seven  the perceived auditory event was very similar to that perceived with 13 loudspeakers at all bandwidths. the perceived differences were larger in wideband noise than in narrow-band noise.
4784,bruce treadmill test in children: normal values in a clinic population.,the bruce treadmill protocol is suitable for children as young as age 4 years. maximal endurance time may be used as the sole criterion of exercise capacity  and normal values were established with 327 children having an innocent heart murmur. mean endurance time in boys increased from 10.4 minutes at age 4 to 5 years  to 14.1 minutes at age 13 to 15 years. mean endurance time in girls increased from 9.5 minutes at age 4 to 5 years to 12.3 minutes at age 10 to 12 years. mean maximal heart rate ranged from 193 to 206 beats/min. age differences in mean maximal and submaximal heart rates were small. there were negative correlations between endurance time and the ratio of weight to height. there were negative correlations between heart rates at treadmill stages 1 to 3 and the endurance times. the correlation coefficient of endurance time with maximal oxygen uptake was 0.88  but for clinical purposes endurance time alone is a satisfactory indicator of exercise performance.
4786,the centrosome and its mode of inheritance: the reduction of the centrosome during gametogenesis and its restoration during fertilization.,neither the restoration of the centrosome during fertilization nor its reduction during gametogenesis is fully understood  but both are pivotal events in development. during each somatic cell cycle  the chromosomes  cytoplasm  and centrosomes duplicate in interphase  and all three split in two during each cell division. while it has long been recognized that both the sperm and the egg contribute equal haploid genomes during fertilization and that the vast majority of the cytoplasm is contributed by the egg  the relative contributions of the centrosome by each gamete are still in question. this article explores centrosome inheritance patterns and considers nine integral and secondarily derived activities of the centrosome. boveri once hypothesized that "the ripe egg possesses all of the elements necessary for development save an active division-center. the sperm  on the other hand  possesses such a center but lacks the protoplasmic substratum in which to operate. in this respect the egg and sperm are complementary structures; their union in syngamy thus restores to each the missing element necessary to further development. " this article reviews the evidence gathered from 11 experimental strategies used to test this theory. while the majority of these approaches supports the hypothesis that the sperm introduces the centrosome at fertilization  the pattern did not reveal itself as universal  since parthenogenesis occurs in nature and can be induced artificially  since centrosome and centriole form de novo in extracts from unfertilized eggs and since the centrosome is derived from maternal sources during fertilization in some systems--notably  in mice. models of the centrosome are proposed  along with speculative mechanisms which might lead to the cloaking of the reproducing element of the maternal centrosome during oogenesis and the retention of this structure by the paternal centrosome during spermatogenesis. proteins essential for microtubule nucleation  like gamma-tubulin  are retained in the cytoplasm during oogenesis  but are largely lost during spermatogenesis. it is further postulated that the restoration of the zygotic centrosome at fertilization requires the attraction of maternal centrosomal components (in particular  gamma-tubulin and the 25s "gamma-some" particle) to the paternal reproducing element; this  along with post-translational modifications (including phosphorylation  disulfide reduction  and calcium ion binding)  creates a functional zygote centrosome by blending both maternal and paternal constituents.(abstract truncated at 400 words)
4788,hotspot mutations in h3f3a and idh1 define distinct epigenetic and biological subgroups of glioblastoma.,glioblastoma (gbm) is a brain tumor that carries a dismal prognosis and displays considerable heterogeneity. we have recently identified recurrent h3f3a mutations affecting two critical amino acids (k27 and g34) of histone h3.3 in one-third of pediatric gbm. here  we show that each h3f3a mutation defines an epigenetic subgroup of gbm with a distinct global methylation pattern  and that they are mutually exclusive with idh1 mutations  which characterize a third mutation-defined subgroup. three further epigenetic subgroups were enriched for hallmark genetic events of adult gbm and/or established transcriptomic signatures. we also demonstrate that the two h3f3a mutations give rise to gbms in separate anatomic compartments  with differential regulation of transcription factors olig1  olig2  and foxg1  possibly reflecting different cellular origins.
4790,hydroxyethyl starch (hes) versus other fluid therapies: effects on kidney function.,background hydroxyethyl starches (hes) are synthetic colloids commonly used for fluid resuscitation  yet controversy exists about their impact on kidney function. objectives to examine the effects of hes on kidney function compared to other fluid resuscitation therapies in different patient populations. search strategy we searched the cochrane renal group's specialised register  the cochrane central register of controlled trials (central  in the cochrane library)  medline  embase  metaregister and reference lists of articles. selection criteria randomised controlled trials (rcts) and quasi-rcts in which hes was compared to an alternate fluid therapy for the prevention or treatment of effective intravascular volume depletion. primary outcomes were renal replacement therapy (rrt)  author-defined kidney failure and acute kidney injury (aki) as defined by the rifle criteria. secondary outcomes included serum creatinine and creatinine clearance. data collection and analysis screening  selection  data extraction and quality assessments for each retrieved article were carried out by two authors using standardised forms. authors were contacted when published data were incomplete. preplanned sensitivity and subgroup analyses were performed after data were analysed with a random effects model. main results the review included 34 studies (2607 patients). overall  the rr of author-defined kidney failure was 1.50 (95% ci 1.20 to 1.87; n = 1199) and 1.38 for requiring rrt (95% ci 0.89 to 2.16; n = 1236) in hes treated individuals compared with other fluid therapies. subgroup analyses suggested increased risk in septic patients compared to non-septic (surgical/trauma) patients. non-septic patient studies were smaller and had lower event rates  so subgroup differences may have been due to lack of statistical power in these studies. only limited data was obtained for analysis of kidney outcomes by the rifle criteria. overall  methodological quality of studies was good but subjective outcomes were potentially biased because most studies were unblinded. authors' conclusions potential for increased risk of aki should be considered when weighing the risks and benefits of hes for volume resuscitation  particularly in septic patients. large studies with adequate follow-up are required to evaluate the renal safety of hes products in non-septic patient populations. rifle criteria should be applied to evaluate kidney function in future studies of hes and  where data is available  to re-analyse those studies already published. there is inadequate clinical data to address the claim that safety differences exist between different hes products.
4792,uncoupling of leading- and lagging-strand dna replication during lesion bypass in vivo.,numerous agents attack dna  forming lesions that impair normal replication. specialized dna polymerases transiently replace the replicative polymerase and copy past lesions  thus generating mutations  the major initiating cause of cancer. we monitored  in escherichia coli  the kinetics of replication of both strands of dna molecules containing a single replication block in either the leading or lagging strand. despite a block in the leading strand  lagging-strand synthesis proceeded further  implying transient uncoupling of concurrent strand synthesis. replication through the lesion requires specialized dna polymerases and is achieved with similar kinetics and efficiencies in both strands.
4794,determination of the time course of capacitation in mouse spermatozoa using a chlortetracycline fluorescence assay.,the heads of mouse spermatozoa obtained 5 min after release from the excised caudae epididymides showed a characteristic fluorescence pattern in the presence of the fluorophore chlortetracycline (ctc). there was uniform fluorescence over the entire head with about half the sperm population showing a brighter line of fluorescence across the equatorial segment; this fluorescence pattern was designated "f". after 90-min incubation in culture medium (cm) containing 2% (w/v) bovine serum albumin  most of the sperm heads showed a dark band of nonfluorescence over the equatorial and postequatorial segment  while the anterior portion of the head showed bright fluorescence. this fluorescence pattern was designated "b." the time course for the disappearance of pattern f matched the time course of the appearance of pattern b  with a half-time of 30 min. the transformation was complete in 90 min. at longer times of incubation in cm  the percentage of spermatozoa showing pattern b declined; fluorescence over the entire head was lost  characteristic of the pattern for acrosome-reacted sperm (p. m. saling and b. t. storey (1979). j. cell biol. 83  544-555). mouse sperm showing pattern b were able to undergo the acrosome reaction  either spontaneously or by induction with acid-solubilized zonae pellucidae from mouse eggs (h.m. florman and b. t. storey (1982). dev. biol. 91  121-130). the latter reaction was blocked by its specific inhibitor 3-quinuclidinyl benzilate (qnb). mouse sperm showing pattern f could not be induced to undergo the acrosome reaction by exposure to solubilized zonae. this implies that the change from fluorescence pattern f to fluorescence pattern b corresponds with changes in the sperm which make them susceptible to undergo the acrosome reaction. this change occurs during the time interval previously determined to be needed for capacitation of mouse sperm in vitro in cm (m. inoue and d. p. wolf (1975). biol. reprod. 13  340-346). these results imply that spermatozoa showing ctc fluorescence pattern b can be considered to be capacitated and that a functional definition for capacitation is the acquired ability to undergo the acrosome reaction rapidly when treated with acid-solubilized zonae pellucidae. the ctc fluorescence assay provides for the first time a means to monitor the time course of epididymal mouse sperm capacitation in vitro.
4796,the helicase ddx41 senses intracellular dna mediated by the adaptor sting in dendritic cells,the recognition of pathogenic dna is important to the initiation of antiviral responses. here we report the identification of ddx41  a member of the dexdc family of helicases  as an intracellular dna sensor in myeloid dendritic cells (mdcs). knockdown of ddx41 expression by short hairpin rna blocked the ability of mdcs to mount type i interferon and cytokine responses to dna and dna viruses. overexpression of both ddx41 and the membrane-associated adaptor sting together had a synergistic effect in promoting ifnb promoter activity. ddx41 bound both dna and sting and localized together with sting in the cytosol. knockdown of ddx41 expression blocked activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase tbk1 and the transcription factors nf-κb and irf3 by b-form dna. our results suggest that ddx41 is an additional dna sensor that depends on sting to sense pathogenic dna.
4798,drug interactions between oral contraceptives and antibiotics.,objective to evaluate the evidence on possible drug interactions between antibiotics and oral contraceptives (ocs) that may lead to oc failure. data sources medline and lexis/nexis medical library searches for 1966-1999 using the key word "oral contraceptives " cross-indexed with the terms "antibiotics " "adverse effects " and "pregnancy " and medline search using the additional mesh term "drug interactions. " no language restrictions were used. methods of study selection a total of 167 articles were retrieved for analysis. another 32 articles were identified by review of the references cited in these publications. articles were selected based on their ability to provide information on the relationship between antibiotic therapy and oc efficacy in otherwise compliant users (defined as women with unplanned pregnancies who reported compliance with their oc regimen). additionally  studies that either directly measured the effects of antibiotics on the pharmacokinetics of oc components  or that analyzed the effects of antibiotics on measures of ovulation in oc users were accepted. tabulation  integration  and results at least 30 cases have been reported of pregnancies occurring in women taking ocs and antibiotics  particularly rifampin. approximately 20% of pregnant women reporting to family planning or abortion clinics reported concomitant oc and antibiotic use. information from adverse event reporting databases generally mirrors the types of information gleaned from these case reports and clinical surveys and accounts for approximately one-third of reported cases. retrospective surveys  primarily from dermatology-based practices  also have reported 24 pregnancies in oc users who concomitantly received therapy with antibiotics  most commonly tetracyclines and penicillins. apparent oc failure rates in clinical surveys were within the usual range expected for patterns of typical use. in pooled results obtained from relatively small populations  oral antibiotics  with the exception of rifampin  have not significantly affected the pharmacokinetics of ethinyl estradiol  levonorgestrel  and norethindrone or reduced the serum concentrations of gonadotropins. however  individual patients have been identified who experienced significant decreases in the plasma concentration of these components of ocs and who appeared to ovulate. conclusion rifampin impairs the effectiveness of ocs. pharmacokinetic studies of other antibiotics have not shown any systematic interaction between antibiotics and oc steroids. however  individual patients do show large decreases in the plasma concentrations of ethinyl estradiol when they take certain other antibiotics  notably tetracycline and penicillin derivatives. because it is not possible to identify these women in advance  a cautious approach is advised.
4800,dna joint dependence of pol x family polymerase action in nonhomologous end joining.,dna double strand breaks (dsbs) can be rejoined directly by the nonhomologous end-joining (nhej) pathway of repair. nucleases and polymerases are required to promote accurate nhej when the terminal bases of the dsb are damaged. the same enzymes also participate in imprecise rejoining and joining of incompatible ends  important mutagenic events. previous work has shown that the pol x family polymerase pol4 is required for some but not all nhej events that require gap filling in saccharomyces cerevisiae. here  we systematically analyzed dsb end configurations and found that gaps on both strands and overhang polarity are the principal factors that determine whether a joint requires pol4. dsbs with 3'-overhangs and a gap on each strand strongly depended on pol4 for repair  dsbs with 5'-overhangs of the same sequence did not. pol4 was not required when 3'-overhangs contained a gap on only one strand  however. pol4 was equally required at 3'-overhangs of all lengths within the nhej-dependent range but was dispensable outside of this range  indicating that pol4 is specific to nhej. loss of pol4 did not affect the rejoining of dsbs that utilized a recessed microhomology or dsbs bearing 5'-hydroxyls but no gap. finally  mammalian pol x polymerases were able to differentially complement a pol4 mutation depending on the joint structure  demonstrating that these polymerases can participate in yeast nhej but with distinct properties.
4802,dna methylation is a critical cell-intrinsic determinant of astrocyte differentiation in the fetal brain.,astrocyte differentiation  which occurs late in brain development  is largely dependent on the activation of a transcription factor  stat3. we show that astrocytes  as judged by glial fibrillary acidic protein (gfap) expression  never emerge from neuroepithelial cells on embryonic day (e) 11.5 even when stat3 is activated  in contrast to e14.5 neuroepithelial cells. a cpg dinucleotide within a stat3 binding element in the gfap promoter is highly methylated in e11.5 neuroepithelial cells  but is demethylated in cells responsive to the stat3 activation signal to express gfap. this cpg methylation leads to inaccessibility of stat3 to the binding element. we suggest that methylation of a cell type-specific gene promoter is a pivotal event in regulating lineage specification in the developing brain.
4804,mutation spectrum in the nephrin gene (nphs1) in congenital nephrotic syndrome.,congenital nephrotic syndrome  finnish type (cnf or nphs1)  is an autosomal recessive disease characterized by massive proteinuria and development of nephrotic syndrome shortly after birth. the disease is most common in finland  but many patients have been identified in other populations. the disease is caused by mutations in the gene for nephrin which is a key component of the glomerual ultrafilter  the podocyte slit diaphragm. a total of 30 mutations have been reported in the nephrin gene in patients with congenital nephrotic syndrome worldwide. in the finnish population  two main mutations have been found. these two nonsense mutations account for over 94% of all mutations in finland. most mutations found in non-finnish patients are missense mutations  but they include also nonsense and splice site mutations  as well as deletions and insertions. this mutation update summarizes the nature of all previously reported nephrin mutations and  additionally  describes 20 novel mutations recently identified in our laboratory.
4806,increased dendritic complexity and axonal length in cultured mouse cortical neurons overexpressing methyl-cpg-binding protein mecp2,rett syndrome is caused by loss-of-function mutations in the gene encoding the methyl dna-binding factor mecp2. as brain mass and neuronal complexity tend to be diminished in rett patients  we tested whether mecp2 directly influences the morphological complexity of developing neurons. our results show that cultured mouse neurons overexpressing mecp2beta (mecp2a) develop more complex morphologies  having longer axonal and dendritic processes  and an increased number of axonal and dendritic terminal endings. we then tested whether overexpressing a mutant form of mecp2beta lacking its carboxyl terminus would elicit the same effects. interestingly  while neurons overexpressing this mutant failed to enhance axonal and dendritic process elongation  the complexity of their axonal and dendritic processes remained significantly elevated. taken together  these data support the hypothesis that mecp2 directly regulates neuronal maturation and/or synaptogenesis  and provides evidence that mecp2 may influence neuritic elongation and process branching through different mechanisms.
4808,role of kras and egfr as biomarkers of response to erlotinib in national cancer institute of canada clinical trials group study br.21.,purpose to evaluate the effect of kras and epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) genotype on the response to erlotinib treatment in the br.21  placebo-controlled trial. patients and methods we analyzed 206 tumors for kras mutation  204 tumors for egfr mutation  and 159 tumors for egfr gene copy by fluorescent in situ hybridization (fish). we reanalyzed egfr deletion/mutation using two highly sensitive techniques that detect abnormalities in samples with 5% to 10% tumor cellularity. kras mutation was analyzed by direct sequencing. results thirty patients (15%) had kras mutations  34 (17%) had egfr exon 19 deletion or exon 21 l858r mutations  and 61 (38%) had high egfr gene copy (fish positive). response rates were 10% for wild-type and 5% for mutant kras (p = .69)  7% for wild-type and 27% for mutant egfr (p = .03)  and 5% for egfr fish-negative and 21% for fish-positive patients (p = .02). significant survival benefit from erlotinib therapy was observed for patients with wild-type kras (hazard ratio [hr] = 0.69  p = .03) and egfr fish positivity (hr = 0.43  p = .004) but not for patients with mutant kras (hr = 1.67  p = .31)  wild-type egfr (hr = 0.74  p = .09)  mutant egfr (hr = 0.55  p = .12)  and egfr fish negativity (hr = 0.80  p = .35). in multivariate analysis  only egfr fish-positive status was prognostic for poorer survival (p = .025) and predictive of differential survival benefit from erlotinib (p = .005). conclusion egfr mutations and high copy number are predictive of response to erlotinib. egfr fish is the strongest prognostic marker and a significant predictive marker of differential survival benefit from erlotinib.
4810,regulation of e2fs and senescence by pml nuclear bodies.,the tumor suppressor pml (promyelocytic leukemia protein) regulates cellular senescence and terminal differentiation  two processes that implicate a permanent exit from the cell cycle. here  we show that the mechanism by which pml induces a permanent cell cycle exit and activates p53 and senescence involves a recruitment of e2f transcription factors bound to their promoters and the retinoblastoma (rb) proteins to pml nuclear bodies enriched in heterochromatin proteins and protein phosphatase 1α. blocking the functions of the rb protein family or adding back e2fs to pml-expressing cells can rescue their defects in e2f-dependent gene expression and cell proliferation  inhibiting the senescent phenotype. in benign prostatic hyperplasia  a neoplastic disease that displays features of senescence  pml was found to be up-regulated and forming nuclear bodies. in contrast  pml bodies were rarely visualized in prostate cancers. the newly defined pml/rb/e2f pathway may help to distinguish benign tumors from cancers  and suggest e2f target genes as potential targets to induce senescence in human tumors.
4812,call to develop a standard acquisition charge model for kidney paired donation,we propose a medicare demonstration project to develop a standard acquisition charge for kidney paired donation. a new payment strategy is required because medicare and commercial insurance companies may not directly pay living donor costs intended to lead to transplantation of a beneficiary of a different insurance provider. until the 1970s  when organ procurement organizations were empowered to serve as financial intermediaries to pay the upfront recovery expenses for deceased donor kidneys before knowing the identity of the recipient  there existed similar limitations in the recovery and placement of deceased donor organs. analogous to the recovery of deceased donor kidneys  kidney paired donation requires the evaluation of living donors before identifying their recipient. tissue typing  crossmatching and transportation of living donors or their kidneys represent additional financial barriers. finally  the administrative expenses of the organizations that identify and coordinate kidney paired donation transplantation require reimbursement akin to that necessary for organ procurement organizations. to expand access to kidney paired donation for more patients  we propose a model to reimburse paired donation expenses analogous to the proven strategy used for over 30 years to pay for deceased donor solid organ transplantation in america.
4814,genetic diagnosis and prognosis of alzheimer's disease: challenges and opportunities.,alzheimer's disease (ad)  the most common form of dementia in western societies  is a pathologically and clinically heterogeneous disease with a strong genetic component. the recent advances in high-throughput genome technologies allowing for the rapid analysis of millions of polymorphisms in thousands of subjects has significantly advanced our understanding of the genomic underpinnings of ad susceptibility. during the last 5 years  genome-wide association and whole-exome- and whole-genome sequencing studies have mapped more than 20 disease-associated loci  providing insights into the molecular pathways involved in ad pathogenesis and hinting at potential novel therapeutic targets. this review article summarizes the challenges and opportunities of when using genomic information for the diagnosis and prognosis of ad.
4816,at least 1400 base pairs of 5'-flanking dna is required for the correct expression of the ho gene in yeast.,homothallic yeast cells undergo a specific pattern of mating-type switching initiated by an endonuclease encoded by the ho gene. ho transcription is affected by cell type (a  alpha  and a/alpha)  by cell age (mother or daughter)  and by the cell cycle. this paper investigates the sequences involved in ho transcription by replacing genomic dna with copies mutated in vitro. a region between -1000 and 1400 (called urs1) is necessary for transcription in addition to a "tata"-like region at -90. the 900 bp of dna separating urs1 from the "tata" box is not necessary for transcription nor for a/alpha repression and some measure of mother/daughter control  but it is necessary for correct cell cycle control.
4818,order of intron removal influences multiple splice outcomes  including a two-exon skip  in a col5a1 acceptor-site mutation that results in abnormal pro-alpha1(v) n-propeptides and ehlers-danlos syndrome type i.,ehlers-danlos syndrome (eds) type i (the classical variety) is a dominantly inherited  genetically heterogeneous connective-tissue disorder. mutations in the col5a1 and col5a2 genes  which encode type v collagen  have been identified in several individuals. most mutations affect either the triple-helical domain of the protein or the expression of one col5a1 allele. we identified a novel splice-acceptor mutation (ivs4-2a-->g) in the n-propeptide-encoding region of col5a1  in one patient with eds type i. the outcome of this mutation was complex: in the major product  both exons 5 and 6 were skipped; other products included a small amount in which only exon 5 was skipped and an even smaller amount in which cryptic acceptor sites within exon 5 were used. all products were in frame. pro-alpha1(v) chains with abnormal n-propeptides were secreted and were incorporated into extracellular matrix  and the mutation resulted in dramatic alterations in collagen fibril structure. the two-exon skip occurred in transcripts in which intron 5 was removed rapidly relative to introns 4 and 6  leaving a large (270 nt) composite exon that can be skipped in its entirety. the transcripts in which only exon 5 was skipped were derived from those in which intron 6 was removed prior to intron 5. the use of cryptic acceptor sites in exon 5 occurred in transcripts in which intron 4 was removed subsequent to introns 5 and 6. these findings suggest that the order of intron removal plays an important role in the outcome of splice-site mutations and provide a model that explains why multiple products derive from a mutation at a single splice site.
4820,synchrotron radiation solution x-ray scattering study of the ph dependence of the quaternary structure of yeast pyruvate decarboxylase.,the ph dependence of the quaternary structure of pyruvate decarboxylase from yeast was studied in the range 6.2 less than ph less than 8.4. there is an equilibrium with a midpoint around ph 7.5 between tetramers and dimers  and the catalytic activity of the enzyme depends on the volume fraction of tetramer. this equilibrium may provide an additional regulating mechanism besides substrate activation since accumulation of pyruvate would lead to a reduction in ph and hence an increase of the concentration of the catalytically active tetramer. radiation damage during the x-ray scattering experiments results in a shift of this equilibrium and in the formation of octamers. these effects could be circumvented and analyzed using experimental and data processing methods which can be readily applied to other radiation-sensitive systems. the low-resolution shapes of the dimers and tetramers were determined from the scattering curves using spherical harmonics. the results indicate that a conformational change must occur in the dimers upon formation of the tetramers  in agreement with earlier circular dichroism measurements.
4822,cardiac glycosides inhibit tnf-α/nf-κb signaling by blocking recruitment of tnf receptor-associated death domain to the tnf receptor,digitoxin and structurally related cardiac glycoside drugs potently block activation of the tnf-α/nf-κb signaling pathway. we have hypothesized that the mechanism might be discovered by searching systematically for selective inhibitory action through the entire pathway. we report that the common action of these drugs is to block the tnf-α-dependent binding of tnf receptor 1 to tnf receptor-associated death domain. this drug action can be observed with native cells  such as hela  and reconstituted systems prepared in hek293 cells. all other antiinflammatory effects of digitoxin on nf-κb and c-jun n-terminal kinase pathways appear to follow from the blockade of this initial upstream signaling event.
4824,dmso as a vehicle for central injections: tests with feeding elicited by norepinephrine injected into the paraventricular nucleus.,dimethyl sulfoxide (dmso) is becoming increasingly popular as a vehicle in studies employing central injections. the aim of the present study was to determine whether the vehicle required for solubilization of substances for central injection [75% dmso and 25% artificial csf (acsf)] would alter the well-characterized stimulatory response to norepinephrine (ne) injected into the paraventricular nucleus (pvn) on short-term food intake. to evaluate its suitability  we compared the effects of repeated unilateral injections of ne dissolved in two different vehicles (100% acsf or 75% dmso  25% acsf)  in separate groups of animals every 48 h over a 30-day period. ne (40 nmol) stimulated food intake by approximately sevenfold compared to either vehicle alone  and the stimulatory effect was similar whether acsf or 75% dmso was used as a vehicle. furthermore  the ne-induced feeding did not vary in magnitude across a series of 13 tests. these results suggest that 75% dmso is a suitable vehicle for administering ne (and likely other water-insoluble substances)in small volumes of 0.3 microl into specific brain regions.
4826,associations between work-related factors and specific disorders of the shoulder--a systematic review of the literature.,objective our aim was to provide a quantitative assessment of the exposure-response relationships between work-related physical and psychosocial factors and the occurrence of specific shoulder disorders in occupational populations. methods a systematic review of the literature was conducted on the associations between type of work  physical load factors  and psychosocial aspects at work  on the one hand  and the occurrence of tendinitis of the biceps tendon  rotator cuff tears  subacromial impingement syndrome (sis)  and suprascapular nerve compression  on the other hand. associations between work factors and shoulder disorders were expressed in quantitative measures as odds ratio (or) or relative risk (rr). results the occurrence of sis was associated with force requirements >10% maximal voluntary contraction (mvc)  lifting >20 kg >10 times/day  and high-level of hand force >1 hour/day (or 2.8-4.2). repetitive movements of the shoulder  repetitive motion of the hand/wrist >2 hours/day  hand-arm vibration  and working with hand above shoulder level showed an association with sis (or 1.04-4.7) as did upper-arm flexion > or =45 degrees > or =15% of time (or 2.43) and duty cycle of forceful exertions > or =9% time or duty cycle of forceful pinch >0% of time (or 2.66). high psychosocial job demand was also associated with sis (or 1.5-3.19). jobs in the fish processing industry had the highest risk for both tendinitis of the biceps tendon as well as sis (or 2.28 and 3.38  respectively). work in a slaughterhouse and as a betel pepper leaf culler were associated with the occurrence of sis only (or 5.27 and 4.68  respectively). none of the included articles described the association between job title/risk factors and the occurrence of rotator cuff tears or suprascapular nerve compression. conclusions highly repetitive work  forceful exertion in work  awkward postures  and high psychosocial job demand are associated with the occurrence of sis.
4828,molecular regulation of histone h3 trimethylation by compass and the regulation of gene expression.,the set1-containing complex compass  which is the yeast homolog of the human mll complex  is required for mono-  di-  and trimethylation of lysine 4 of histone h3. we have performed a comparative global proteomic screen to better define the role of compass in histone trimethylation. we report that both cps60 and cps40 components of compass are required for proper histone h3 trimethylation  but not for proper regulation of telomere-associated gene silencing. purified compass lacking cps60 can mono- and dimethylate but is not capable of trimethylating h3(k4). chromatin immunoprecipitation (chip) studies indicate that the loss subunits of compass required for histone trimethylation do not affect the localization of set1 to chromatin for the genes tested. collectively  our results suggest a molecular requirement for several components of compass for proper histone h3 trimethylation and regulation of telomere-associated gene expression  indicating multiple roles for different forms of histone methylation by compass.
4830,high levels of viral replication contrast with only transient changes in cd4(+) and cd8(+) cell numbers during the early phase of experimental infection with simian immunodeficiency virus sivmnd-1 in mandrillus sphinx.,early events during human immunodeficiency virus infections are considered to reflect the capacity of the host to control infection. we have studied early virus and host parameters during the early phase of simian immunodeficiency virus sivmnd-1 nonpathogenic infection in its natural host  mandrillus sphinx. four mandrills were experimentally infected with a primary sivmnd-1 strain derived from a naturally infected mandrill. two noninfected control animals were monitored in parallel. blood and lymph nodes were collected at three time points before infection  twice a week during the first month  and at days 60  180  and 360 postinfection (p.i.). anti-sivmnd-1 antibodies were detected starting from days 28 to 32 p.i. neither elevated temperature nor increased lymph node size were observed. the viral load in plasma peaked between days 7 to 10 p.i. (2 x 10(6) to 2 x 10(8) rna equivalents/ml). viremia then decreased 10- to 1 000-fold  reaching the viral set point between days 30 to 60 p.i. the levels during the chronic phase of infection were similar to that in the naturally infected donor mandrill (2 x 10(5) rna equivalents/ml). the cd4(+) cell numbers and percentages in blood and lymph nodes decreased slightly (<10%) during primary infection  and cd8(+) cell numbers increased transiently. all values returned to preinfection infection levels by day 30 p.i. cd8(+) cell numbers or percentages  in peripheral blood and lymph nodes  did not increase during the 1 year of follow-up. in conclusion  sivmnd-1 has the capacity for rapid and extensive replication in mandrills. despite high levels of viremia  cd4(+) and cd8(+) cell numbers remained stable in the post-acute phase of infection  raising questions regarding the susceptibility of mandrill t cells to activation and/or cell death in response to sivmnd-1 infection in vivo.
4832,psychiatric comorbidity in chronic daily headache.,clinical evidence suggests that chronic daily headache (cdh) occurs in association with psychopathologies: previous studies have focused particularly on migraine. to evaluate this association  we studied  using the dsm-iiir criteria  a population of 88 patients (18m  70f) affected by cdh (mean duration 7.4 +/- 8.7 years). we documented the presence of a psychiatric disorder in 90% of this population. the most frequent diagnosis was a comorbidity of anxiety and mood disorders. the comorbidity of psychiatric disorders and headache has important implications as far as treatment is concerned.
4834,reproductive and lifestyle determinants of anti-müllerian hormone in a large population-based study.,context anti-müllerian hormone (amh) is an ovarian reserve marker that is increasingly applied in clinical practice as a prognostic and diagnostic tool. despite increased use of amh in clinical practice  large-scale studies addressing the influence of possible determinants on amh levels are scarce. objective we aimed to address the role of reproductive and lifestyle determinants of amh in a large population-based cohort of women. design in this cross-sectional study  age-specific amh percentiles were calculated using general linear modeling with cg-lms (cole and green  lambda  mu  and sigma model  an established method to calculate growth curves for children). setting women from the general community participating in the doetinchem cohort study were assessed. participants two thousand three hundred twenty premenopausal women were included. main outcome measure the effect of female reproductive and lifestyle factors on shifts in age-specific amh percentiles was studied. results in comparison to women with a regular menstrual cycle  current oral contraceptive (oc) users  women with menstrual cycle irregularity  and pregnant women had significantly lower age-specific amh percentiles (for oc use  11 percentiles lower; for cycle irregularity  11 percentiles lower; and for pregnancy  17 percentiles lower [p value for all <.0001]). age at menarche and age at first childbirth were not associated with the age-specific amh percentile. higher parity was associated with 2 percentiles higher age-specific amh (p = .02). of the lifestyle factors investigated  current smoking was associated with 4 percentiles lower age-specific amh percentiles (p = .02)  irrespective of the smoking dose. body mass index  waist circumference  alcohol consumption  physical exercise  and socioeconomic status were not significantly associated with age-specific amh percentiles. conclusions this study demonstrates that several reproductive and lifestyle factors are associated with age-specific amh levels. the lower amh levels associated with oc use and smoking seem reversible  as effects were confined to current use of oc or cigarettes. it is important to give careful consideration to the effect of such determinants when interpreting amh in a clinical setting and basing patient management on amh.
4836,the effects of prion protein proteolysis and disaggregation on the strain properties of hamster scrapie.,native mammalian prions exist in self-propagating strains that exhibit distinctive clinical  pathological and biochemical characteristics. prion strain diversity is associated with variations in prp(sc) conformation  but it remains unknown precisely which physical properties of the prp(sc) molecules are required to encipher mammalian prion strain phenotypes. in this study  we subjected prion-infected brain homogenates derived from three different hamster scrapie strains to either (i) proteinase k digestion or (ii) sonication  and inoculated the modified samples into normal hamsters. the results show that the strain-specific clinical features and neuropathological profiles of inoculated animals were not affected by either treatment. similarly  the strain-dependent biochemical characteristics of the prp(sc) molecules (including electrophoretic mobility  glycoform composition  conformational stability and susceptibility to protease digestion) in infected animals were unaffected by either proteolysis or sonication of the original inocula. these results indicate that the infectious strain properties of native prions do not appear to be altered by prp(sc) disaggregation  and that maintenance of such properties does not require the n-domain (approximately residues 23-90) of the protease-resistant prp(sc) molecules or protease-sensitive prp(sc) molecules.
4838,unmet need for personal assistance with activities of daily living among older adults.,purpose this study examined the prevalence  correlates  and negative consequences of unmet need for personal assistance with activities of daily living (adls) among older adults. design and methods the authors analyzed cross-sectional data from the 1994 national health interview survey's supplement on aging. data were weighted to be representative of the noninstitutionalized population aged 70 years and older. results overall  20.7% of those needing help to perform 1 or more adls (an estimated 629 000 persons) reported receiving inadequate assistance; for individual adls  the prevalence of unmet need ranged from 10.2% (eating) to 20.1% (transferring). the likelihood of having 1 or more unmet needs was associated with lower household income  multiple adl difficulties  and living alone. nearly half of those with unmet needs reported experiencing a negative consequence (e.g.  unable to eat when hungry) as a result of their unmet need. implications greater  targeted efforts are needed to reduce the prevalence and consequences of unmet need for adl assistance in elderly persons.
4840,preventing deaths by drowning in children in the united kingdom: have we made progress in 10 years? population based incidence study.,detailed information on drowning in children is not routinely collected by offices of national statistics. few studies have been carried out in the united kingdom  and none has been done on british children abroad. in 1988-9  two of the authors (amk and jrs) combined information from national statistical offices  police forces (royal life saving society)  and from a press cutting service (royal society for prevention of accidents) for a detailed analysis of deaths by drowning in children.1  2  3 this analysis found that 149 children had drowned in the united kingdom during 1998-9. it also identified a safety agenda  which focused on young children in garden ponds and pools and on older children swimming without supervision. over the past 10 years there have been initiatives on children's safety in water  particularly swimming. we obtained similar information for 1998-9 to identify changes that have …
4842,the sp1-like protein bteb3 inhibits transcription via the basic transcription element box by interacting with msin3a and hdac-1 co-repressors and competing with sp1.,sp1-like proteins are characterized by three conserved c-terminal zinc finger motifs that bind gc-rich sequences found in promoters of numerous genes essential for mammalian cell homeostasis. these proteins behave as transcriptional activators or repressors. although significant information has been reported on the molecular mechanisms by which sp1-like activators function  relatively little is known about mechanisms for repressor proteins. here we report the functional characterization of bteb3  a ubiquitously expressed sp1-like transcriptional repressor. gal4 assays show that the n terminus of bteb3 contains regions that can act as direct repressor domains. immunoprecipitation assays reveal that bteb3 interacts with the co-repressor msin3a and the histone deacetylase protein hdac-1. gel shift assays demonstrate that bteb3 specifically binds the bte site  a well characterized gc-rich dna element  with an affinity similar to that of sp1. reporter and gel shift assays in chinese hamster ovary cells show that bteb3 can also mediate repression by competing with sp1 for bte binding. thus  the characterization of this protein expands the repertoire of bteb-like members of the sp1 family involved in transcriptional repression. furthermore  our results suggest a mechanism of repression for bteb3 involving direct repression by the n terminus via interaction with msin3a and hdac-1 and competition with sp1 via the dna-binding domain.
4844,the mos social support survey.,this paper describes the development and evaluation of a brief  multidimensional  self-administered  social support survey that was developed for patients in the medical outcomes study (mos)  a two-year study of patients with chronic conditions. this survey was designed to be comprehensive in terms of recent thinking about the various dimensions of social support. in addition  it was designed to be distinct from other related measures. we present a summary of the major conceptual issues considered when choosing items for the social support battery  describe the items  and present findings based on data from 2987 patients (ages 18 and older). multitrait scaling analyses supported the dimensionality of four functional support scales (emotional/informational  tangible  affectionate  and positive social interaction) and the construction of an overall functional social support index. these support measures are distinct from structural measures of social support and from related health measures. they are reliable (all alphas greater than 0.91)  and are fairly stable over time. selected construct validity hypotheses were supported.
4846,14q deletions are associated with trisomy 12  notch1 mutations and unmutated ighv genes in chronic lymphocytic leukemia and small lymphocytic lymphoma.,deletions of the long arm of chromosome 14 [del(14q)] are rare but recurrently observed in mature b-cell neoplasms  particularly in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (cll). to further characterize this aberration  we studied 81 cases with del(14q): 54 of cll and 27 of small lymphocytic lymphoma (sll)  the largest reported series to date. using karyotype and fluorescence in situ hybridization (fish)  the most frequent additional abnormality was trisomy 12 (tri12)  observed in 28/79 (35%) cases  followed by del13q14 (12/79  15%)  deltp53 (11/80  14%) delatm (5/79  6%)  and del6q21 (3/76  4%). ighv genes were unmutated in 41/53 (77%) patients  with a high frequency of ighv1-69 (21/52  40%). notch1 gene was mutated in 14/45 (31%) patients. there was no significant difference in cytogenetic and molecular abnormalities between cll and sll. investigations using fish and snp-array demonstrated the heterogeneous size of the 14q deletions. however  a group with the same del(14)(q24.1q32.33) was identified in 48% of cases. in this group  tri12 (p = 0.004) and notch1 mutations (p = 0.02) were significantly more frequent than in the other patients. in cll patients with del(14q)  median treatment-free survival (tfs) was 27 months. in conclusion  del(14q) is associated with tri12 and with pejorative prognostic factors: unmutated ighv genes (with over-representation of the ighv1-69 repertoire)  notch1 mutations  and a short tfs.
4848,incidence of adverse drug events and potential adverse drug events. implications for prevention. ade prevention study group.,objectives to assess incidence and preventability of adverse drug events (ades) and potential ades. to analyze preventable events to develop prevention strategies. design prospective cohort study. participants all 4031 adult admissions to a stratified random sample of 11 medical and surgical units in two tertiary care hospitals over a 6-month period. units included two medical and three surgical intensive care units and four medical and two surgical general care units. main outcome measures adverse drug events and potential ades. methods incidents were detected by stimulated self-report by nurses and pharmacists and by daily review of all charts by nurse investigators. incidents were subsequently classified by two independent reviewers as to whether they represented ades or potential ades and as to severity and preventability. results over 6 months  247 ades and 194 potential ades were identified. extrapolated event rates were 6.5 ades and 5.5 potential ades per 100 nonobstetrical admissions  for mean numbers per hospital per year of approximately 1900 ades and 1600 potential ades. of all ades  1% were fatal (none preventable)  12% life-threatening  30% serious  and 57% significant. twenty-eight percent were judged preventable. of the life-threatening and serious ades  42% were preventable  compared with 18% of significant ades. errors resulting in preventable ades occurred most often at the stages of ordering (56%) and administration (34%); transcription (6%) and dispensing errors (4%) were less common. errors were much more likely to be intercepted if the error occurred earlier in the process: 48% at the ordering stage vs 0% at the administration stage. conclusion adverse drug events were common and often preventable; serious ades were more likely to be preventable. most resulted from errors at the ordering stage  but many also occurred at the administration stage. prevention strategies should target both stages of the drug delivery process.
4850,gene--nutrition interactions in coronary artery disease: correlation between the mthfr c677t polymorphism and folate and homocysteine status in a korean population.,introduction elevated plasma total homocysteine is a major risk for coronary artery disease (cad). methyltetrahydrofolate reductase (mthfr) is a main regulatory enzyme in homocysteine metabolism; a common c677t mutation in the mthfr gene results in decreased enzyme activity  and contributes to increased homocysteine levels and decreased folate levels. we investigated the frequency of mthfr c677t alleles in a korean population  determined the genotype-specific threshold levels of folate or vitamin b12  and investigated the relationship between the tt genotype and the risk of cad. materials and methods we enrolled a study population of 163 cad patients and 50 control subjects  and screened the mthfr c677t polymorphism using real-time pcr with melting point analysis. levels of plasma homocysteine  folate and vitamin b12 were also determined. we then defined the genotype-specific threshold values of folate and vitamin b12 required to keep homocysteine levels in a normal range for individuals of each mthfr c677t genotype. results the frequency of the tt genotype was 18% in control subjects and 26% in patients group (p>0.05). individuals homozygous for the tt genotype had significantly elevated homocysteine levels (p<0.05). the genotype-specific folate threshold level was significantly higher in tt individuals than in the cc or ct genotypes. the or of individuals with low folate status and the tt genotype to estimate the relative risk of cad was 2.2 and the or of those with high folate status and the tt genotype was 1.5 (95% ci  0.5-9.6 and 0.7-3.2  respectively). conclusion we were able to define a gene-nutrient interaction that shows a higher risk for cad based on specific threshold folate levels required by different mthfr c677t genotypes in a korean population.
4852,the transcriptome profile of human embryonic stem cells as defined by sage.,human embryonic stem (es) cell lines that have the ability to self-renew and differentiate into specific cell types have been established. the molecular mechanisms for self-renewal and differentiation  however  are poorly understood. we determined the transcriptome profiles for two proprietary human es cell lines (hes3 and hes4  es cell international)  and compared them with murine es cells and other human tissues. human and mouse es cells appear to share a number of expressed gene products although there are numerous notable differences  including an inactive leukemia inhibitory factor pathway and the high preponderance of several important genes like pou5f1 and sox2 in human es cells. we have established a list of genes comprised of known es-specific genes and new candidates that can serve as markers for human es cells and may also contribute to the "stemness" phenotype. of particular interest was the downregulation of dnmt3b and lin28 mrnas during es cell differentiation. the overlapping similarities and differences in gene expression profiles of human and mouse es cells provide a foundation for a detailed and concerted dissection of the molecular and cellular mechanisms governing their pluripotency  directed differentiation into specific cell types  and extended ability for self-renewal.
4854,slipped (ctg)•(cag) repeats can be correctly repaired  escape repair or undergo error-prone repair,expansion of (ctg)•(cag) repeats  the cause of 14 or more diseases  is presumed to arise through escaped repair of slipped dnas. we report the fidelity of slipped-dna repair using human cell extracts and dnas with slip-outs of (cag)20 or (ctg)20. three outcomes occurred: correct repair  escaped repair and error-prone repair. the choice of repair path depended on nick location and slip-out composition (cag or ctg). a new form of error-prone repair was detected whereby excess repeats were incompletely excised  constituting a previously unknown path to generate expansions but not deletions. neuron-like cell extracts yielded each of the three repair outcomes  supporting a role for these processes in (ctg)•(cag) instability in patient post-mitotic brain cells. mismatch repair (mmr) and nucleotide excision repair (ner) proteins hmsh2  hmsh3  hmlh1  xpf  xpg or polymerase β were not required—indicating that their role in instability may precede that of slip-out processing. differential processing of slipped repeats may explain the differences in mutation patterns between various disease loci or tissues.
4856,paracrine effects of direct intramyocardial implantation of bone marrow derived cells to enhance neovascularization in chronic ischaemic myocardium.,objective to determine the optimal bone marrow (bm) cell types  and their potential mechanisms of action for neovascularization in chronic ischaemic myocardium. methods and results the functional effects  angiogenic potential and cytokine expression of direct intramyocardial implantation of autologous bm cd31-positive endothelial progenitor cells (epc  n=9)  bm mononuclear cells (mncs  n=9)  and saline (n=9) were compared in a swine model of chronic ischaemic myocardium. autologous bm cells were harvested and catheter-based electromechanical mapping-guided direct intramyocardial injection was performed to target ischaemic myocardium. after 12 weeks  injection of bm-mnc resulted in significant improvements in left ventricular dp/dt (+21+/-8%  p=0.032)  left ventricular pressure (+17+/-4%  p=0.048) and regional microsphere myocardial perfusion over ischaemic endocardium (+74+/-28%  p<0.05) and epicardium (+73+/-29%  p<0.05). no significant effects were observed following injection of bm-epc or saline. capillary density (1132+/-69 versus 903+/-44 per mm(2)  p=0.047) and expression of mrna of vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf  32.3+/-5.6 versus 13.1+/-3.7  p<0.05 ) and angiopoietin-2 (23.9+/-3.6 versus 13.7+/-3.1  p<0.05) in ischaemic myocardium was significantly greater in the bm-mnc group than the saline group. the capillary density in ischaemic myocardium demonstrated a significant positive correlation with vegf expression (r=0.61  p<0.001). conclusion catheter-based direct intramyocardial injection of bm-mnc enhanced angiogenesis more effectively than bm-epc or saline  possibly via a paracrine effect  with increased expression of vegf that subsequently improved cardiac performance of ischaemic myocardium.
4858,foxp3(+) t cells regulate immunoglobulin a selection and facilitate diversification of bacterial species responsible for immune homeostasis.,foxp3(+) t cells play a critical role for the maintenance of immune tolerance. here we show that in mice  foxp3(+) t cells contributed to diversification of gut microbiota  particularly of species belonging to firmicutes. the control of indigenous bacteria by foxp3(+) t cells involved regulatory functions both outside and inside germinal centers (gcs)  consisting of suppression of inflammation and regulation of immunoglobulin a (iga) selection in peyer's patches  respectively. diversified and selected igas contributed to maintenance of diversified and balanced microbiota  which in turn facilitated the expansion of foxp3(+) t cells  induction of gcs  and iga responses in the gut through a symbiotic regulatory loop. thus  the adaptive immune system  through cellular and molecular components that are required for immune tolerance and through the diversification as well as selection of antibody repertoire  mediates host-microbial symbiosis by controlling the richness and balance of bacterial communities required for homeostasis.
4860,lack of absent in melanoma 2 (aim2) expression in tumor cells is closely associated with poor survival in colorectal cancer patients.,functional studies on colorectal cancer cells indicated a protective role of the interferon-inducible dsdna sensor absent in melanoma 2 (aim2) in cancer progression. given that a high mutation rate and lack of aim2 expression was previously detected in a subset of colorectal cancers  we here investigated the association of aim2 expression in tumor cells and patient prognosis (5-year follow-up). a tissue microarray analysis of 476 matched tissue pairs (colorectal tumor and adjacent normal colon epithelium) was performed by two independent observers. samples from 62 patients were excluded because of missing follow-up information or due to neo-adjuvant therapy before tissue sampling. out of the remaining 414 tissue pairs  279 (67.4%) displayed reduced aim2 expression in cancer cells when compared to epithelial cells of their normal counterpart. thirty-eight patients (9.18%) had completely lost aim2 expression in tumor cells. after adjustment for sex  age  cancer stage  tumor site  tumor grade and chemotherapy  complete lack of aim2 expression was associated with an up to 3-fold increase in overall mortality (hr=2.40; 95% ci=1.44-3.99) and disease specific mortality (hr=3.14; 95% ci=1.75-5.65) in comparison to aim2-positive tumor samples. our results demonstrate that lack of aim2 expression is closely associated with poor outcome in colorectal cancer. the data thus strongly substantiate a protective role of aim2 against progression of colorectal tumors. further studies are required to assess whether lack of aim2 expression may be used as a biomarker for the identification of colorectal cancer patients with poor prognosis.
4862,nodal/activin signaling predicts human pluripotent stem cell lines prone to differentiate toward the hematopoietic lineage.,lineage-specific differentiation potential varies among different human pluripotent stem cell (hpsc) lines  becoming therefore highly desirable to prospectively know which hpsc lines exhibit the highest differentiation potential for a certain lineage. we have compared the hematopoietic potential of 14 human embryonic stem cell (hesc)/induced pluripotent stem cell (ipsc) lines. the emergence of hemogenic progenitors  primitive and mature blood cells  and colony-forming unit (cfu) potential was analyzed at different time points. significant differences in the propensity to differentiate toward blood were observed among hpscs: some hpscs exhibited good blood differentiation potential  whereas others barely displayed blood-differentiation capacity. correlation studies revealed that the cfu potential robustly correlates with hemogenic progenitors and primitive but not mature blood cells. developmental progression of mesoendodermal and hematopoietic transcription factors expression revealed no correlation with either hematopoietic initiation or maturation efficiency. microarray studies showed distinct gene expression profile between hpscs with good versus poor hematopoietic potential. although neuroectoderm-associated genes were downregulated in hpscs prone to hematopoietic differentiation many members of the nodal/activin signaling were upregulated  suggesting that this signaling predicts those hpsc lines with good blood-differentiation potential. the association between nodal/activin signaling and the hematopoietic differentiation potential was confirmed using loss- and gain-of-function functional assays. our data reinforce the value of prospective comparative studies aimed at determining the lineage-specific differentiation potential among different hpscs and indicate that nodal/activin signaling seems to predict those hpsc lines prone to hematopoietic specification.
4864,diverse tumorigenic pathways in ovarian serous carcinoma.,this study was undertaken to analyze genetic alterations in 108 sporadic serous ovarian neoplasms to elucidate ovarian serous carcinogenesis. our results demonstrate that k-ras mutations occur in approximately 50% of serous borderline tumors (sbts)  non-invasive micropapillary serous carcinomas (mpscs)  and invasive micropapillary serous carcinomas  which represent a morphological continuum of tumor progression. moreover  progressive increase in the degree of allelic imbalance of chromosomes 1p  5q  8p  18q  22q  and xp was observed comparing serous borderline tumors to noninvasive and invasive micropapillary serous carcinomas. in contrast  high-grade (conventional serous carcinoma) tumors contained wild-type k-ras in all 23 cases studied and a high frequency of allelic imbalance even in small (early) primary tumors similar to that found in advanced stage tumors. based on these findings  we propose a dualistic model for ovarian serous carcinogenesis. one pathway involves a stepwise progression from sbt to noninvasive and then invasive mpsc. the other pathway is characterized by rapid progression from the ovarian surface epithelium or inclusion cysts to a conventional (high-grade) serous carcinoma.
4866,essential role for the sant domain in the functioning of multiple chromatin remodeling enzymes.,the sant domain is a novel motif found in a number of eukaryotic transcriptional regulatory proteins that was identified based on its homology to the dna binding domain of c-myb. here we show that the sant domain is essential for the in vivo functions of yeast swi3p  ada2p  and rsc8p  subunits of three distinct chromatin remodeling complexes. we also find that the ada2p sant domain is essential for histone acetyltransferase activity of native  gcn5p-containing hat complexes. furthermore  kinetic analyses indicate that an intact sant domain is required for an ada2p-dependent enhancement of histone tail binding and enzymatic catalysis by gcn5p. our results are consistent with a general role for sant domains in functional interactions with histone n-terminal tails.
4868,health-related quality of life among children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia.,background the objective was to quantify the health-related quality of life (hrql) of children treated for acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) and identify specific disabilities for remediation. procedure two types of subjects were included: all patients 5 plus years old in a multi-center clinical trial and general population control groups. patients were assessed during all four major phases of active treatment and approximately 2 years after treatment. health status and hrql were measured using health utilities index® (hui®) mark 2 (hui2) and mark 3 (hui3). hrql scores were used to calculate quality-adjusted life years (qalys). excess disability rates identified attributes for remediation. results hui assessments (n = 749) were collected during the five phases. mean hrql increased from induction through the post-treatment phase (p < 0.001). there were no significant demographic or treatment effects on hrql  except for type of asparaginase during continuation therapy (p = 0.005 for hui2 and p = 0.007 for hui3). differences in mean hrql scores between patients and controls were important (p < 0.001) during the active treatment phases but not during the post-treatment phase. relative to controls  patients lost approximately 0.2 qalys during active treatment. disability was evident in mobility/ambulation  emotion  self-care and pain  and declined over time. conclusions patients with all experienced important but declining deficits in hrql during active treatment phases: equivalent to losing approximately 2 months of life in perfect health. hrql within the 2-years post-treatment phase was similar to controls. the policy challenge is to develop new treatment protocols producing fewer disabilities in mobility/ambulation  emotion  self-care  and pain without compromising survival.
4870,diagnosis of rotator cuff tears.,rotator cuff tears account for almost 50% of major shoulder injuries but are sometimes difficult to diagnose. to aid diagnosis  we did a prospective study  comparing results of 23 clinical tests from 400 patients with and without rotator cuff tears. three simple tests were predictive for rotator cuff tear: supraspinatus weakness  weakness in external rotation  and impingement. when all three were positive  or if two tests were positive and the patient was aged 60 or older  the individual had a 98% chance of having a rotator cuff tear; combined absence of these features excluded this diagnosis.
4872,hydrogen sulfide interacts with nitric oxide in the heart: possible involvement of nitroxyl.,aims the present study aims to investigate the interaction between nitric oxide (no) and hydrogen sulfide (h(2)s)  the two important gaseous mediators in rat hearts. methods and results intracellular calcium in isolated cardiomyocytes was measured with a spectrofluorometric method using fura-2. myocyte contractility was measured with a video edge system. nahs (50 µm  an h(2)s donor) had no significant effect on the resting calcium level  electrically induced (ei) calcium transients  and cell contractility in ventricular myocytes. stimulating endogenous no production with l-arginine or exogenous application of no donors [sodium nitroprusside (snp) and 2-(n n-diethylamino)-diazenolate-2-oxide] decreased myocyte twitch amplitudes accompanied by slower velocities of both cell contraction and relaxation. surprisingly  nahs reversed the negative inotropic and lusitropic effects of the above three no-increasing agents. in addition  the mixture of snp + nahs increased  whereas snp alone decreased  the resting calcium level and the amplitudes of ei calcium transients. angeli's salt  a nitroxyl anion (hno) donor  mimicked the effect of snp + nahs on calcium handling and myocyte contractility. three thiols  n-acetyl-cysteine  l-cysteine  and glutathione  abolished the effects of hno and snp + nahs on myocyte contraction. neither rp-camp [a protein kinase a (pka) inhibitor] nor rp-cgmp [a protein kinase g (pkg) inhibitor] affected the effects of snp + nahs  suggesting a camp/pka- or cgmp/pkg-independent mechanism. conclusion h(2)s may interact with no to form a thiol sensitive molecule (probably hno) which produces positive inotropic and lusitropic effects. our findings may shed light on the interaction of no and h(2)s and provide new clues to treat cardiovascular diseases.
4874,131-i radioiodine therapy for hyperthyroidism in patients with graves' disease  uninodular goitre and multinodular goitre.,we studied 201 consecutive patients who received a relatively fixed dose of radioiodine for the treatment of hyperthyroidism between the years 1981-6. patients with graves' disease (170) were initially treated with a mean (se) dose of 369 (10) mbq 131-i with a remission rate of 94% at 6 months and a cumulative relapse rate of 12% at one year and 21% at 5 years. the cumulative incidence of hypothyroidism was 26% at 3 months  55% at 6 months  61% at 1 year and 66% at 5 years. patients with a uninodular goitre (10) were initially treated with a mean (se) dose of 438 (85) mbq 131-i with a remission rate of 100% at 6 months  without relapse at 1 year but relapsing in 17% at 5 years. the cumulative incidence of hypothyroidism was 26% at 3 months  30% at 6 months  40% at 1 year and 40% at 5 years. patients with a multinodular goitre (21) were initially treated with a mean (se) dose of 613 (77) mbq 131-i with a remission rate of 79% at 6 months and a cumulative relapse rate of 26% at 1 year and 39% at 5 years. the cumulative incidence of hypothyroidism was 5% at 3 months  14% at 6 months  24% at 1 year and 24% at 5 years.
4876,genomewide analysis of nucleosome density histone acetylation and hdac function in fission yeast.,we have conducted a genomewide investigation into the enzymatic specificity  expression profiles  and binding locations of four histone deacetylases (hdacs)  representing the three different phylogenetic classes in fission yeast (schizosaccharomyces pombe). by directly comparing nucleosome density  histone acetylation patterns and hdac binding in both intergenic and coding regions with gene expression profiles  we found that sir2 (class iii) and hos2 (class i) have a role in preventing histone loss; clr6 (class i) is the principal enzyme in promoter-localized repression. hos2 has an unexpected role in promoting high expression of growth-related genes by deacetylating h4k16ac in their open reading frames. clr3 (class ii) acts cooperatively with sir2 throughout the genome  including the silent regions: rdna  centromeres  mat2/3 and telomeres. the most significant acetylation sites are h3k14ac for clr3 and h3k9ac for sir2 at their genomic targets. clr3 also affects subtelomeric regions which contain clustered stress- and meiosis-induced genes. thus  this combined genomic approach has uncovered different roles for fission yeast hdacs at the silent regions in repression and activation of gene expression.
4878,obesity induces a phenotypic switch in adipose tissue macrophage polarization.,adipose tissue macrophages (atms) infiltrate adipose tissue during obesity and contribute to insulin resistance. we hypothesized that macrophages migrating to adipose tissue upon high-fat feeding may differ from those that reside there under normal diet conditions. to this end  we found a novel f4/80(+)cd11c(+) population of atms in adipose tissue of obese mice that was not seen in lean mice. atms from lean mice expressed many genes characteristic of m2 or "alternatively activated" macrophages  including ym1  arginase 1  and il10. diet-induced obesity decreased expression of these genes in atms while increasing expression of genes such as those encoding tnf-alpha and inos that are characteristic of m1 or "classically activated" macrophages. interestingly  atms from obese c-c motif chemokine receptor 2-ko (ccr2-ko) mice express m2 markers at levels similar to those from lean mice. the antiinflammatory cytokine il-10  which was overexpressed in atms from lean mice  protected adipocytes from tnf-alpha-induced insulin resistance. thus  diet-induced obesity leads to a shift in the activation state of atms from an m2-polarized state in lean animals that may protect adipocytes from inflammation to an m1 proinflammatory state that contributes to insulin resistance.
4880,dynamics of microvillus extension and tether formation in rolling leukocytes.,p-selectin glycoprotein ligand-1 (psgl-1) binding to p-selectin mediates leukocyte rolling under conditions of flow. in human neutrophils  a type of leukocyte belonging to the innate immune system  psgl-1 molecules are located on the neutrophil's surface ruffles  called microvilli. each newly formed p-selectin-psgl-1 bond can become load bearing  imposing on its microvillus a pulling force that deforms the microvillus. depending on the magnitude of the bond force  a microvillus can be extended  or a thin membrane cylinder (a tether) can be formed at the tip of the microvillus. here we propose a kelvin-voigt viscoelastic material as an improved model for microvillus extension. using a modified version of our event-tracking model of adhesion (etma)  we demonstrate how p-selectin-psgl-1 load-bearing bonds shape microvillus deformation during neutrophil rolling at low shear (wall shear rate of 50 s(-1)  p-selectin site density of 150 molecules μm(-2)). we also discuss the impact of microvillus deformability on neutrophil rolling. we find that the average microvillus extension constitutes 65% of the total microvillus-tether complex extension  and that the rolling neutrophil may never fully rest. a quantitative comparison with the corresponding non-deformable microvilli case supports a concept that the ability of the microvillus to deform stabilizes cell rolling.
4882,spatial release from masking based on binaural processing for up to six maskers.,spatial release from masking (srm) was measured for identification of a female target word spoken in the presence of male masker words. target words from a single loudspeaker located at midline were presented when two  four  or six masker words were presented either from the same source as the target or from spatially separated masker sources. all masker words were presented from loudspeakers located symmetrically around the centered target source in the front azimuth hemifield. three masking conditions were employed: speech-in-speech masking (involving both informational and energetic masking)  speech-in-noise masking (involving energetic masking)  and filtered speech-in-filtered speech masking (involving informational masking). psychophysical results were summarized as three-point psychometric functions relating proportion of correct word identification to target-to-masker ratio (in decibels) for both the co-located and spatially separated target and masker sources cases. srm was then calculated by comparing the slopes and intercepts of these functions. srm decreased as the number of symmetrically placed masker sources increased from two to six. this decrease was independent of the type of masking  with almost no srm measured for six masker sources. these results suggest that when srm is dependent primarily on binaural processing  srm is effectively limited to fewer than six sound sources.
4884,use of clomifene during early pregnancy and risk of hypospadias: population based case-control study.,clomifene is widely used for inducing ovulation.1 it is structurally related to diethylstilbestrol  which has been linked to vaginal and cervical clear cell adenocarcinoma in women exposed in utero. the adverse effect is less severe in sons  although links to testicular cancer and urogenital anomalies  such as epididymal cysts  have been reported.2 3 a recent study also found an increased risk of hypospadias in the sons of women exposed to diethylstilbestrol in utero.4 clomifene has a half life of about five days  but its metabolites have been found in blood samples on day 22 of the menstrual cycle and in faeces up to six weeks after administration.5 the occurrence of hypospadias may be increasing. little is known about the risk of hypospadias in boys born to women who have used clomifene to induce ovulation. ### methods and results  our case-control study was done in the danish counties of north jutland  aarhus  viborg  and …
4886,intravaginal ring eluting tenofovir disoproxil fumarate completely protects macaques from multiple vaginal simian-hiv challenges.,topical preexposure prophylaxis interrupts hiv transmission at the site of mucosal exposure. intermittently dosed vaginal gels containing the hiv-1 reverse transcriptase inhibitor tenofovir protected pigtailed macaques depending on the timing of viral challenge relative to gel application. however  modest or no protection was observed in clinical trials. intravaginal rings (ivrs) may improve efficacy by providing long-term sustained drug delivery leading to constant mucosal antiretroviral concentrations and enhancing adherence. although a few ivrs have entered the clinical pipeline  100% efficacy in a repeated macaque vaginal challenge model has not been achieved. here we describe a reservoir ivr technology that delivers the tenofovir prodrug tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (tdf) continuously over 28 d. with four monthly ring changes in this repeated challenge model  tdf ivrs generated reproducible and protective drug levels. all tdf ivr-treated macaques (n = 6) remained seronegative and simian-hiv rna negative after 16 weekly vaginal exposures to 50 tissue culture infectious dose shiv162p3. in contrast  11/12 control macaques became infected  with a median of four exposures assuming an eclipse of 7 d from infection to virus rna detection. protection was associated with tenofovir levels in vaginal fluid [mean 1.8 × 10(5) ng/ml (range 1.1 × 10(4) to 6.6 × 10(5) ng/ml)] and ex vivo antiviral activity of cervicovaginal lavage samples. these observations support further advancement of tdf ivrs as well as the concept that extended duration drug delivery devices delivering topical antiretrovirals could be effective tools in preventing the sexual transmission of hiv in humans.
4888,involvement of members of the rab family and related small gtpases in autophagosome formation and maturation,macroautophagy  the process by which cytosolic components and organelles are engulfed and degraded by a double-membrane structure  could be viewed as a specialized  multistep membrane transport process. as such  it intersects with the exocytic and endocytic membrane trafficking pathways. a number of rab gtpases which regulate secretory and endocytic membrane traffic have been shown to play either critical or accessory roles in autophagy. the biogenesis of the pre-autophagosomal isolation membrane (or phagophore) is dependent on the functionality of rab1. a non-canonical  atg5/atg7-independent mode of autophagosome generation from the trans-golgi or endosome requires rab9. other rabs  such as rab5  rab24  rab33  and rab7 have all been shown to be required  or involved at various stages of autophagosomal genesis and maturation. another small gtpase  ralb  was very recently demonstrated to induce isolation membrane formation and maturation via its engagement of the exocyst complex  a known rab effector. we summarize here what is now known about the involvement of rabs in autophagy  and discuss plausible mechanisms with future perspectives.
4890,transformation of mammalian cells by constitutively active map kinase kinase.,mitogen-activated protein (map) kinase kinase (mapkk) activates map kinase in a signal transduction pathway that mediates cellular responses to growth and differentiation factors. oncogenes such as ras  src  raf  and mos have been proposed to transform cells by prolonging the activated state of mapkk and of components downstream in the signaling pathway. to test this hypothesis  constitutively active mapkk mutants were designed that had basal activities up to 400 times greater than that of the unphosphorylated wild-type kinase. expression of these mutants in mammalian cells activated ap-1-regulated transcription. the cells formed transformed foci  grew efficiently in soft agar  and were highly tumorigenic in nude mice. these findings indicate that constitutive activation of mapkk is sufficient to promote cell transformation.
4892,qt and qtc dispersion are accurate predictors of cardiac death in newly diagnosed non-insulin dependent diabetes: cohort study.,patients with non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus have an excess risk of dying from cardiovascular disease. one small study suggested that a prolonged qt interval could predict cardiac death in patients with diabetic nephropathy who have received insulin treatment. the question now is whether the same is true in newly diagnosed diabetes in patients who have no apparent complications. in addition  qt dispersion  a new but related electrocardiographic variable  predicts cardiac death in patients who have chronic heart failure  peripheral vascular disease  or essential hypertension.1–3 we investigated whether it also predicted cardiac death in diabetic patients. the study group of 182 patients with non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus (103 men; mean age 52.8 (sd 8.5) years) represented the dundee cohort of the united kingdom prospective diabetes study  which was recruited between 1982 and 1988. patients were followed up for a mean of 10.3 (1.7) years. …
4894,arterial hypertension and progression of chronic kidney disease in children during 10-year ambulatory observation.,the aim of this study was the long-term retrospective analysis of chronic kidney disease (ckd) progression in children  especially with regard to the presence of hypertension (htn). the average rate of progression of ckd was higher in patients with htn than without htn. hypertension treatment requires multidrug schemes which need to be intensified with extended time of ckd duration.
4896,serious infections after unrelated donor transplantation in 136 children: impact of stem cell source.,how the infection risks compare after umbilical cord blood (ucb) and bone marrow (bm) transplantation is not known. therefore  we compared serious infections in the 2 years after pediatric myeloablative unrelated donor transplantation with unmanipulated bm (n = 52)  t cell-depleted (tcd) bm (n = 24)  or ucb (n = 60) for the treatment of hematologic malignancy. overall  the cumulative incidence of 1 or more serious infections was comparable between groups (bm  81%; tcd  83%; ucb  90%; p = .12). furthermore  by taking all serious infections into account and using multivariate techniques with unmanipulated bm as the reference  there were also no significant differences between groups (tcd relative risk [rr]  1.6; p = .10; ucb rr  1.0; p = .84). within the time periods days 0 to 42  days 43 to 100  and days 101 to 180  the only difference was a greater risk of viral infections from days 0 to 42 in tcd recipients (rr  3.5; p = .02). notably  after day 180  tcd recipients had a significantly increased infection risk (rr  3.1; p = .03)  whereas the risk in ucb recipients (rr  0.5; p = .23) was comparable to that in bm recipients. other factors associated with an increased infection risk in the 2 years after transplantation were age > or = 8 years  graft failure  and severe acute graft-versus-host disease. these data suggest that the risk of serious infection after pediatric ucb transplantation is comparable to that with unmanipulated bm.
4898,inflammatory t cells rapidly induce differentiation of human bone marrow stromal cells into mature osteoblasts.,activated t cells secrete multiple osteoclastogenic cytokines which play a major role in the bone destruction associated with rheumatoid arthritis. while the role of t cells in osteoclastogenesis has received much attention recently  the effect of t cells on osteoblast formation and activity is poorly defined. in this study  we investigated the hypothesis that in chronic inflammation activated t cells contribute to enhanced bone turnover by promoting osteoblastic differentiation. we show that t cells produce soluble factors that induce alkaline phosphatase activity in bone marrow stromal cells and elevated expression of mrna for runx2 and osteocalcin. this data indicate that t cell derived factors have the capacity to stimulate the differentiation of bone marrow stromal cells into the osteoblast phenotype. rankl mrna was undetectable under any conditions in highly purified bone marrow stromal cells. in contrast  rankl was constitutively expressed in primary osteoblasts and only moderately up-regulated by activated t cell conditioned medium. interestingly  both bone marrow stromal cells and osteoblasts expressed mrna for rank  which was strongly up-regulated in both cell types by activated t cell conditioned medium. although  mrna for the rankl decoy receptor  osteoprotegerin  was also up-regulated by activated t cell conditioned medium  it's inhibitory effects may be mitigated by a simultaneous rise in the osteoprotegerin competitor tnf-related apoptosis-inducing ligand. based on our data we propose that during chronic inflammation  t cells regulate bone loss by a dual mechanism involving both direct stimulation of osteoclastogenesis  by production of osteoclastogenic cytokines  and indirectly by induction of osteoblast differentiation and up-regulation of bone turnover via coupling.
4900,validation of a migraine-specific questionnaire for use in family studies.,the availability of valid migraine-specific questionnaires is important when large numbers of migraine patients have to be analysed. the finnish migraine-specific questionnaire has been validated in two stages. in the first  a clinical diagnosis of migraine was reached  using international headache society criteria  in 100 consecutive patients. migraine was then diagnosed independently on the basis of responses to the finnish migraine-specific questionnaire. in the second stage  responses to 100 questionnaires returned consecutively in a family study in progress were analysed  and respondents were contacted by telephone for interview and diagnosis of migraine. contact proved impossible in six cases. the sensitivity of the questionnaire for migraine was 0.99 (167 out of 168; validation stages 1 and 2 combined) and specificity was 0.96 (25 out of 26 cases; validation stage 2). it also proved possible to differentiate between migraine with and without aura on the basis of responses to the finnish migraine-specific questionnaire: chance-corrected agreement (cohen's kappa) was 0.804 in relation to diagnoses reached on the basis of responses to the finnish migraine-specific questionnaire and clinically was 0.858 in relation to diagnoses reached on the basis of responses to the finnish migraine-specific questionnaire combined with the results of the telephone interviews. a value for cohen's kappa > 0.75 indicates good agreement. therefore  use of the finnish migraine-specific questionnaire in research into migraine genetics is justified.
4902,sphingosine can pre- and post-condition heart and utilizes a different mechanism from sphingosine 1-phosphate.,consistent with previous reports  sphingosine at a high concentration (5 microm) was cardiotoxic as evidenced by increased infarct size in response to ischemia/reperfusion in an ex vivo rat heart. sphingosine 1-phosphate (s1p) at 5 microm was cardioprotective. however  at a physiologic concentration (0.4 microm) sphingosine as well as s1p was effective in protecting the heart from ischemia/reperfusion injury both when perfused prior to 40 min of ischemia (preconditioning) or when added to reperfusion media following ischemia (postconditioning). protection by sphingosine and s1p was evidenced with both pre- and post-conditioning by a >75% recovery of left ventricular developed pressure during reperfusion and a decrease in infarct size from 45% of the risk area to less than 8%. when vpc23019  an s1p(1and3)g-protein coupled receptor antagonist  was added to the preconditioning or postconditioning medium along with s1p  it completely blocked s1p-induced protection. however  vpc 23019 did not affect the ability of 0.4 microm sphingosine to either precondition or postcondition hearts. studies of preconditioning revealed that inhibition of protein kinase c with gf109203x blocked preconditioning by s1p. however  gf109203x did not affect preconditioning by 0.4 microm sphingosine. likewise  cotreatment with the pi3 kinase inhibitor wortmanin blocked preconditioning by s1p but not by sphingosine. by contrast  inhibition of protein kinase g with kt5823 had no effect on s1p preconditioning but completely eliminated preconditioning by sphingosine. also  the protein kinase a inhibitory peptide 14-22 amide blocked preconditioning by sphingosine but not s1p. these data reveal for the first time that sphingosine is not toxic at physiologic concentrations but rather is a potent cardioprotectant that utilizes a completely different mechanism than s1p; one that is independent of g-protein coupled receptors and utilizes cyclic nucleotide-dependent pathways.
4904,phospholipid synthesis and lipid composition of subcellular membranes in the unicellular eukaryote saccharomyces cerevisiae.,subcellular membranes of saccharomyces cerevisiae  including mitochondria  microsomes  plasma membranes  secretory vesicles  vacuoles  nuclear membranes  peroxisomes  and lipid particles  were isolated by improved procedures and analyzed for their lipid composition and their capacity to synthesize phospholipids and to catalyze sterol delta 24-methylation. the microsomal fraction is heterogeneous in terms of density and classical microsomal marker proteins and also with respect to the distribution of phospholipid-synthesizing enzymes. the specific activity of phosphatidylserine synthase was highest in a microsomal subfraction which was distinct from heavier microsomes harboring phosphatidylinositol synthase and the phospholipid n-methyltransferases. the exclusive location of phosphatidylserine decarboxylase in mitochondria was confirmed. cdo-diacylglycerol synthase activity was found both in mitochondria and in microsomal membranes. highest specific activities of glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase and sterol delta 24-methyltransferase were observed in the lipid particle fraction. nuclear and plasma membranes  vacuoles  and peroxisomes contain only marginal activities of the lipid-synthesizing enzymes analyzed. the plasma membrane and secretory vesicles are enriched in ergosterol and in phosphatidylserine. lipid particles are characterized by their high content of ergosteryl esters. the rigidity of the plasma membrane and of secretory vesicles  determined by measuring fluorescence anisotropy by using trimethylammonium diphenylhexatriene as a probe  can be attributed to the high content of ergosterol.
4906,regulation of p53 in response to dna damage,activation of p53 can occur in response to a number of cellular stresses  including dna damage  hypoxia and nucleotide deprivation. several forms of dna damage have been shown to activate p53  including those generated by ionising radiation (ir)  radio-mimetic drugs  ultraviolet light (uv) and chemicals such as methyl methane sulfonate (mms). under normal conditions  p53 levels are maintained at a low state by virtue of the extremely short-half life of the polypeptide. in addition to this  p53 normally exists in an largely inactive state that is relatively inefficient at binding to dna and activating transcription. activation of p53 in response to dna damage is associated with a rapid increase in its levels and with an increased ability of p53 to bind dna and mediate transcriptional activation. this then leads to the activation of a number of genes whose products trigger cell-cycle arrest  apoptosis  or dna repair. recent work has suggested that this regulation is brought about largely through dna damage triggering a series of phosphorylation  de-phosphorylation and acetylation events on the p53 polypeptide. here  we discuss the nature of these modifications  the enzymes that bring them about  and how changes in p53 modification lead to p53 activation.
4908,cell and biomolecule delivery for tissue repair and regeneration in the central nervous system.,tissue engineering frequently involves cells and scaffolds to replace damaged or diseased tissue. it originated  in part  as a means of effecting the delivery of biomolecules such as insulin or neurotrophic factors  given that cells are constitutive producers of such therapeutic agents. thus cell delivery is intrinsic to tissue engineering. controlled release of biomolecules is also an important tool for enabling cell delivery since the biomolecules can enable cell engraftment  modulate inflammatory response or otherwise benefit the behavior of the delivered cells. we describe advances in cell and biomolecule delivery for tissue regeneration  with emphasis on the central nervous system (cns). in the first section  the focus is on encapsulated cell therapy. in the second section  the focus is on biomolecule delivery in polymeric nano/microspheres and hydrogels for the nerve regeneration and endogenous cell stimulation. in the third section  the focus is on combination strategies of neural stem/progenitor cell or mesenchymal stem cell and biomolecule delivery for tissue regeneration and repair. in each section  the challenges and potential solutions associated with delivery to the cns are highlighted.
4910,surgical vs nonsurgical treatment of adults with displaced fractures of the proximal humerus: the profher randomized clinical trial.,importance the need for surgery for the majority of patients with displaced proximal humeral fractures is unclear  but its use is increasing. objective to evaluate the clinical effectiveness of surgical vs nonsurgical treatment for adults with displaced fractures of the proximal humerus involving the surgical neck. design  setting  and participants a pragmatic  multicenter  parallel-group  randomized clinical trial  the proximal fracture of the humerus evaluation by randomization (profher) trial  recruited 250 patients aged 16 years or older (mean age  66 years [range  24-92 years]; 192 [77%] were female; and 249 [99.6%] were white) who presented at the orthopedic departments of 32 acute uk national health service hospitals between september 2008 and april 2011 within 3 weeks after sustaining a displaced fracture of the proximal humerus involving the surgical neck. patients were followed up for 2 years (up to april 2013) and 215 had complete follow-up data. the data for 231 patients (114 in surgical group and 117 in nonsurgical group) were included in the primary analysis. interventions fracture fixation or humeral head replacement were performed by surgeons experienced in these techniques. nonsurgical treatment was sling immobilization. standardized outpatient and community-based rehabilitation was provided to both groups. main outcomes and measures primary outcome was the oxford shoulder score (range  0-48; higher scores indicate better outcomes) assessed during a 2-year period  with assessment and data collection at 6  12  and 24 months. sample size was based on a minimal clinically important difference of 5 points for the oxford shoulder score. secondary outcomes were the short-form 12 (sf-12)  complications  subsequent therapy  and mortality. results there was no significant mean treatment group difference in the oxford shoulder score averaged over 2 years (39.07 points for the surgical group vs 38.32 points for the nonsurgical group; difference of 0.75 points [95% ci  -1.33 to 2.84 points]; p = .48) or at individual time points. there were also no significant between-group differences over 2 years in the mean sf-12 physical component score (surgical group: 1.77 points higher [95% ci  -0.84 to 4.39 points]; p = .18); the mean sf-12 mental component score (surgical group: 1.28 points lower [95% ci  -3.80 to 1.23 points]; p = .32); complications related to surgery or shoulder fracture (30 patients in surgical group vs 23 patients in nonsurgical group; p = .28)  requiring secondary surgery to the shoulder (11 patients in both groups)  and increased or new shoulder-related therapy (7 patients vs 4 patients  respectively; p = .58); and mortality (9 patients vs 5 patients; p = .27). ten medical complications (2 cardiovascular events  2 respiratory events  2 gastrointestinal events  and 4 others) occurred in the surgical group during the postoperative hospital stay. conclusions and relevance among patients with displaced proximal humeral fractures involving the surgical neck  there was no significant difference between surgical treatment compared with nonsurgical treatment in patient-reported clinical outcomes over 2 years following fracture occurrence. these results do not support the trend of increased surgery for patients with displaced fractures of the proximal humerus. trial registration isrctn.com identifier: isrctn50850043.
4912,network meta-analysis for indirect treatment comparisons.,i present methods for assessing the relative effectiveness of two treatments when they have not been compared directly in a randomized trial but have each been compared to other treatments. these network meta-analysis techniques allow estimation of both heterogeneity in the effect of any given treatment and inconsistency ('incoherence') in the evidence from different pairs of treatments. a simple estimation procedure using linear mixed models is given and used in a meta-analysis of treatments for acute myocardial infarction.
4914,rig-i-mediated antiviral responses to single-stranded rna bearing 5'-phosphates.,double-stranded rna (dsrna) produced during viral replication is believed to be the critical trigger for activation of antiviral immunity mediated by the rna helicase enzymes retinoic acid-inducible gene i (rig-i) and melanoma differentiation-associated gene 5 (mda5). we showed that influenza a virus infection does not generate dsrna and that rig-i is activated by viral genomic single-stranded rna (ssrna) bearing 5'-phosphates. this is blocked by the influenza protein nonstructured protein 1 (ns1)  which is found in a complex with rig-i in infected cells. these results identify rig-i as a ssrna sensor and potential target of viral immune evasion and suggest that its ability to sense 5'-phosphorylated rna evolved in the innate immune system as a means of discriminating between self and nonself.
4916,platelet activation in type 2 diabetes mellitus.,the abnormal metabolic state that accompanies diabetes renders arteries susceptible to atherosclerosis  being capable of altering the functional properties of multiple cell types  including endothelium and platelets. in particular  an altered platelet metabolism and changes in intraplatelet signaling pathways may contribute to the pathogenesis of atherothrombotic complications of diabetes. a variety of mechanisms may be responsible for enhanced platelet aggregation. among them  hyperglycemia may represent a causal factor for in vivo platelet activation  and may be responsible for nonenzymatic glycation of platelet glycoproteins  causing changes in their structure and conformation  as well as alterations of membrane lipid dynamics. furthermore  hyperglycemia-induced oxidative stress is responsible for enhanced peroxidation of arachidonic acid to form biologically active isoprostanes  which represents an important biochemical link between impaired glycemic control and persistent platelet activation. finally  increased oxidative stress is responsible for activation of transcription factors and expression of redox-sensitive genes leading to a phenotypic switch of endothelium toward an adhesive  pro-thrombotic condition  initial platelet activation  adhesion and subsequent platelet aggregate formation. all this evidence is strengthened by the results of clinical trials documenting the beneficial effects of metabolic control on platelet function  and by the finding that aspirin treatment may even be more beneficial in diabetic than in high-risk non-diabetic patients. attention to appropriate medical management of diabetic patients will have great impact on long-term outcome in this high-risk population.
4918,high-throughput parallel proteogenomics: a bacterial case study.,in recent years  a new paradigm for genome annotation has emerged  termed "proteogenomics " that leverages peptide ms to annotate a genome. this is achieved by mapping peptides to a six-frame translation of a genome  including available splice databases  which may suggest refinements to gene models. using this approach  it is possible to refine gene regions such as exon boundaries  novel genes  gene boundaries  frame shifts  reverse strands  translated utrs  and novel splice junctions. one of the challenges of proteogenomics is how best to (1) tackle assigning confidence to any resulting annotation and (2) apply these gene model refinements  either through manual annotation or through an automated process via training gene prediction tools. this is not a straightforward process  as many gene prediction tools have their defined suitability for niche genomes (either eukaryotic or prokaryotic) trained on and refined with model organisms such as arabidopsis thaliana and escherichia coli  and varying degrees of features that can leverage the use of external evidence. in this study  we outline a suitable approach toward preprocessing mass spectra and optimizing the ms/ms search for a given dataset. we also discuss future challenges  which continue to pose a problem in the field of proteogenomics  and better strategies to successfully tackle them with  using existing tools. we use bradyrhizobium diazoefficiens (nitrogen-fixing bacteria)  with a 9.1 mb genome as a case study  utilizing the latest in second-generation proteogenomics tools with multiple gene models for cross-validation of proteogenomics annotations.
4920,the effects of genetic and pharmacological blockade of the cb1 cannabinoid receptor on anxiety.,the aim of this study was to compare the effects of the genetic and pharmacological disruption of cb1 cannabinoid receptors on the elevated plus-maze test of anxiety. in the first experiment  the behaviour of cb1-knockout mice and wild-type mice was compared. in the second experiment  the cannabinoid antagonist sr141716a (0  1  and 3 mg/kg) was administered to both cb1-knockout and wild type mice. untreated cb1-knockout mice showed a reduced exploration of the open arms of the plus-maze apparatus  thus appearing more anxious than the wild-type animals  however no changes in locomotion were noticed. the vehicle-injected cb1-knockout mice from the second experiment also showed increased anxiety as compared with wild types. surprisingly  the cannabinoid antagonist sr141716a reduced anxiety in both wild type and cb1 knockout mice. locomotor behaviour was only marginally affected. recent evidence suggests the existence of a novel cannabinoid receptor in the brain. it has also been shown that sr141716a binds to both the cb1 and the putative novel receptor. the data presented here supports these findings  as the cannabinoid receptor antagonist affected anxiety in both wild type and cb1-knockout mice. tentatively  it may be suggested that the discrepancy between the effects of the genetic and pharmacological blockade of the cb1 receptor suggests that the novel receptor plays a role in anxiety.
4922,tissue-specific alterations in the glucocorticoid sensitivity of immune cells following repeated social defeat in mice,endogenous glucocorticoids (gc) play an important role in the termination of the inflammatory response following infection and tissue injury. however  recent findings indicate that stress can impair the anti-inflammatory capacities of these hormones. lipopolysaccharide (lps)-stimulated splenocytes of mice that were repeatedly subjected to social disruption (sdr) stress were less sensitive to the immunosuppressive effects of corticosterone (cort) as demonstrated by an increased production of pro-inflammatory cytokines and enhanced cell survival. myeloid cells expressing the marker cd11b were shown to play a key role in this process. here we investigated the role of the bone marrow as a potential source of the gc-insensitive cells. the study revealed that lps-stimulated bone marrow cells  in the absence of experimental stress  were virtually gc-resistant and retained high levels of cell viability after treatment with cort. recurrent exposure to the acute stressor over a period of 2  4 or 6 days led to an increase in the gc sensitivity of the bone marrow cells. this increase in gc sensitivity was associated with enhanced mrna expression of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (gm-csf)  an increase in the number of myeloid progenitors  and a decrease in the proportion of mature cd11b+ cells. the changes in the cellular composition of the bone marrow were accompanied by an increase in splenic cd11b+ cell numbers. simultaneous assessment of the gc sensitivity in bone marrow and spleen revealed a significant negative correlation between both tissues suggesting that social stress causes the redistribution of gc-insensitive myeloid cells from the bone marrow to the spleen.
4924,calcium and peak bone mass.,on the basis of previous epidemiological  clinical and experimental studies  it was demonstrated that adequate calcium intake during growth may influence peak bone mass/density  and may be instrumental in preventing subsequent postmenopausal and senile osteoporosis. calcium intake during adolescence appears to affect skeletal calcium retention directly  and a calcium intake of up to 1600 mg d-1 may be required. therefore  adolescent females at the time of puberty probably represent the optimal population for early prevention of osteoporosis with calcium. young individuals must be in positive calcium balance to provide the calcium necessary for skeletal modelling and consolidation  but the degree of positive balance required to achieve peak bone mass and density is unknown. to assess calcium requirements in young individuals  and also to evaluate the determinants of calcium metabolism during the period of acquisition of peak bone mass  487 calcium balances from previously published reports have been collected and analysed according to developmental phase and calcium intake. the results of this analysis showed that calcium intake and skeletal modelling/turnover are the most important determinants of calcium balance during growth. the highest requirements for calcium are during infancy and adolescence  and then during childhood and young adulthood. infants (adequate vitamin d supply) and adolescents have higher calcium absorption than children and young adults to meet their high calcium requirements. calcium absorption during the periods of rapid bone modelling/turnover is probably mediated by nicolaysen's endogenous factor. urinary calcium increases with age  and reaches a maximum by the end of puberty. the results also show that calcium intake has little effect on urinary calcium excretion during the period of most rapid skeletal formation: a weak correlation is present in children and young adults. on the basis of the above studies it was suggested that the rda for calcium should be higher than currently established for children  adolescents  and young adults  in order to ensure a level of skeletal retention of calcium sufficient for maximal peak bone mass. in addition to nutrition  heredity (both parents) and endocrine factors (sexual development) appear to have profound effects on peak bone mass formation. most of the skeletal mass will be accumulated by late adolescence  indicating early timing of peak bone mass.
4926,skeletal muscle interleukin‐6 regulates metabolic factors in iwat during hfd and exercise training,objective to investigate the role of skeletal muscle (skm) interleukin (il)-6 in the regulation of adipose tissue metabolism. methods muscle-specific il-6 knockout (il-6 mko) and il-6(loxp/loxp) (floxed) mice were subjected to standard rodent diet (chow)  high-fat diet (hfd)  or hfd in combination with exercise training (hfd extr) for 16 weeks. results total fat mass increased (p < 0.05) in both genotypes with hfd. however  hfd il-6 mko mice had lower (p < 0.05) inguinal adipose tissue (iwat) mass than hfd floxed mice. accordingly  iwat glucose transporter 4 (glut4) protein content  5'amp activated protein kinase (ampk)(thr172) phosphorylation  and fatty acid synthase (fas) mrna content were lower (p < 0.05) in il-6 mko than floxed mice on chow. in addition  iwat ampk(thr172) and hormone-sensitive lipase (hsl)(ser565) phosphorylation as well as perilipin protein content was higher (p < 0.05) in hfd il-6 mko than hfd floxed mice  and pyruvate dehydrogenase e1α (pdh-e1α) protein content was higher (p < 0.05) in hfd extr il-6 mko than hfd extr floxed mice. conclusions these findings indicate that skm il-6 affects iwat mass through regulation of glucose uptake capacity as well as lipogenic and lipolytic factors.
4928,the supporting independent immunization and vaccine advisory committees (sivac) initiative: a country-driven  multi-partner program to support evidence-based decision making.,multiple health priorities  limited human resources and logistical capacities  as well as expensive vaccines with limited funds available increase the need for evidence-based decision making in immunization programs. the aim of the supporting independent immunization and vaccine advisory committees (sivac) initiative is to support countries in the establishment or strengthening of national immunization technical advisory groups (nitags) that provide recommendations on immunization policies and programs (e.g.  vaccination schedules  improvements of routine immunization coverage  new vaccine introduction  etc.). sivac  a program funded by the bill & melinda gates foundation  is based on a country-driven  step-by-step process that ensures its support is tailored to country needs and emphasizes nitag sustainability. sivac supports countries by reinforcing the capacities of the nitag scientific and technical secretariat and by providing specific support activities established in consultation with the country and other international partners. additionally  sivac and partners have built an electronic platform  the nitag resource center  that provides information  tools  and briefings to nitags and the immunization community.
4930,prevalence of hypertension and pre-hypertension among adolescents.,objective to determine the prevalence of hypertension and pre-hypertension on the basis of the 2004 national high blood pressure education program working group guidelines in an adolescent school-screening population. study design cross-sectional assessment of blood pressure (bp) in 6790 adolescents (11-17 years) in houston schools was conducted from 2003 to 2005. initial measurements included height  weight  and 4 oscillometric bp readings. repeat measurements were obtained on 2 subsequent occasions in students with persistently elevated bp. final prevalence was adjusted for loss to follow-up and logistic regression used to assess risk factors. results bp distribution at initial screen was 81.1% normal  9.5% pre-hypertension  and 9.4% hypertension (8.4% stage 1; 1% stage 2). prevalence after 3 screenings was 81.1% normal  15.7% pre-hypertension  and 3.2% hypertension (2.6% stage 1; 0.6% stage 2). hypertension and pre-hypertension increased with increasing body mass index. sex  race  and classification as either at-risk for overweight or overweight were independently associated with pre-hypertension. only classification as overweight was associated with hypertension. conclusions application of new classification guidelines for adolescents with elevated bp reveals approximately 20% are at risk for hypertension. further research determining the significance of each bp category and refining definitions to account for bp variability is warranted.
4932,establishment of a cell line (npc/hk1) from a differentiated squamous carcinoma of the nasopharynx.,a long-term cell culture epithelioid cell line was established from a recurrent squamous carcinoma of the nasopharynx of a chinese male 17 1/2 years after radiation therapy. the cell line  designated npc/hk1  has been passed 72 times over a period 1 year. the cells have been shown by light and electron microscopies to be of the squamous epithelial type. when they were transplanted subcutaneously into the back of athymic nude balb/c (nu/nu) mice  tumors developed at the sites of inoculation  which on histological examination were shown to be well-differentiated squamous carcinomas  similar in morphology to the recurrent human tumor from which they were derived. karyotypic analysis of cells from the cell line demonstrates an aneuploid human type with a modal chromosome number of 74 with both numerical and structural aberrations. viral particles or epstein-barr viral nuclear antigen (ebna) has not been demonstrated in the cells from the primary culture or several of the subcultures tested. the presence of ebna in touch smears prepared from the biopsy tissue was inconclusive. infection of the subcultured cells with ebv from p3hr1 and b95-8 cells was unsuccessful.
4934,kruppel-like factor 2 is a transcriptional regulator of chronic and acute inflammation.,although myeloid cell activation is requisite for an optimal innate immune response  this process must be tightly controlled to prevent collateral host tissue damage. kruppel-like factor 2 (klf2) is a potent regulator of myeloid cell proinflammatory activation. as an approximately 30% to 50% reduction in klf2 levels has been observed in human subjects with acute or chronic inflammatory disorders  we studied the biological response to inflammation in klf2(+/-) mice. herein  we show that partial deficiency of klf2 modulates the in vivo response to acute (sepsis) and subacute (skin) inflammatory challenge. mechanistically  we link the anti-inflammatory effects of klf2 to the inhibition of nf-κb transcriptional activity. collectively  the observations provide biologically relevant insights into klf2-mediated modulation of these inflammatory processes that could potentially be manipulated for therapeutic gain.
4936,the role of the transcription factor klf2 in vascular development and disease.,the zinc-finger transcription factor klf2 transduces the physical forces exerted by blood flow into molecular signals responsible for a wide range of biological responses. following its initial recognition as a flow-responsive endothelial transcription factor  klf2 is now known to be expressed in a range of cell types and to participate in a number of processes during development and disease such as endothelial homeostasis  vasoregulation  vascular growth/remodeling  and inflammation. in this review  we summarize the current understanding about klf2 with a focus on its effects on vascular biology.
4938,comorbidity of depressive and anxiety disorders in chronic daily headache and its subtypes.,objective to investigate the frequency of depressive and anxiety disorders in patients with chronic daily headache. background there is a lack of data in the literature on the extent of psychiatric comorbidity in patients with different subtypes of chronic daily headache. methods we recruited consecutive patients with chronic daily headache seen in a headache clinic from november 1998 to december 1999. the subtypes of chronic daily headache were classified according to the criteria proposed by silberstein et al. a psychiatrist evaluated the patients according to the structured mini-international neuropsychiatric interview to assess the comorbidity of depressive and anxiety disorders. results two hundred sixty-one patients with chronic daily headache were recruited. the mean age was 46 years  and 80% were women. transformed migraine was diagnosed in 152 patients (58%) and chronic tension-type headache in 92 patients (35%). seventy-eight percent of patients with transformed migraine had psychiatric comorbidity  including major depression (57%)  dysthymia (11%)  panic disorder (30%)  and generalized anxiety disorder (8%). sixty-four percent of patients with chronic tension-type headache had psychiatric diagnoses  including major depression (51%)  dysthymia (8%)  panic disorder (22%)  and generalized anxiety disorder (1%). the frequency of anxiety disorders was significantly higher in patients with transformed migraine after controlling for age and sex (p =.02). both depressive and anxiety disorders were significantly more frequent in women. conclusion psychiatric comorbidity  especially major depression and panic disorders  was highly prevalent in patients with chronic daily headache seen in a headache clinic. these results demonstrate that women and patients with transformed migraine are at higher risk of psychiatric comorbidity.
4940,three-dimensional structure of the aah26994.1 protein from mus musculus  a putative eukaryotic urm1.,we have used nmr spectroscopy to determine the solution structure of protein aah26994.1 from mus musculus and propose that it represents the first three-dimensional structure of a ubiquitin-related modifier 1 (urm1) protein. amino acid sequence comparisons indicate that aah26994.1 belongs to the urm1 family of ubiquitin-like modifier proteins. the best characterized member of this family has been shown to be involved in nutrient sensing  invasive growth  and budding in yeast. proteins in this family have only a weak sequence similarity to ubiquitin  and the structure of aah26994.1 showed a much closer resemblance to moad subunits of molybdopterin synthases (known structures are of three bacterial moad proteins with 14%-26% sequence identity to aah26994.1). the structures of aah26994.1 and the moad proteins each contain the signature ubiquitin secondary structure fold  but all differ from ubiquitin largely in regions outside of this fold. this structural similarity bolsters the hypothesis that ubiquitin and ubiquitin-related proteins evolved from a protein-based sulfide donor system of the molybdopterin synthase type.
4942,the prevalence and clustering of four major lifestyle risk factors in an english adult population.,background the aim of this study was to examine the clustering of four major lifestyle risk factors (smoking  heavy drinking  lack of fruit and vegetables consumption  and lack of physical activity)  and to examine the variation across different socio-demographic groups in the english adult population. methods the study population was derived from the 2003 health survey for england (n=11 492). clustering was examined by comparing the observed and expected prevalence of the different possible combinations. a multinomial multilevel regression model was conducted to examine the socio-demographic variation in the clustering of the four risk factors. results the study found that  when using british health recommendations  a majority of the english population have multiple lifestyle risk factors at the same time. clustering was found at both ends of the lifestyle spectrum and was more pronounced for women than for men. overall  multiple risk factors were more prevalent among men  lower social class households  singles  and people who are economically inactive  but less prevalent among home owners and older age groups. conclusions the clustering of multiple risk factors provides support for multiple-behavior interventions as opposed to single-behavior interventions.
4944,long non-coding rnas with low expression levels in cells are enriched in secreted exosomes.,long non-coding rnas (lncrnas) are involved in regulating chromatin modifications  gene transcription  mrna translation  and protein function. we recently reported a high variation in the basal expression levels of a panel of lncrnas in hela and mcf-7 cells and their differential response to dna damage induction. here  we hypothesized that lncrna molecules with different cellular expression may have a differential abundance in secreted exosomes  and their exosome levels would reflect cellular response to dna damage. malat1  hotair  lincrna-p21  gas5  tug1  ccnd1-ncrna in exosomes secreted from cultured cells were characterized. a different expression pattern of lncrnas in exosomes was seen compared to cells. rna molecules with relative low expression levels (lincrna-p21  hotair  ncrna-ccnd1) were highly enriched in exosomes. tug1 and gas5 levels were moderately elevated in exosomes  whereas malat1--which was the most abundant molecule in cells--was present at levels comparable to its cellular levels. lincrna-p21 and ncrna-ccnd1 were the main molecules; exosome levels of them best reflect the change of their cellular levels upon exposure of the cells to bleomycin-induced dna damage. in conclusion  we provide evidence that lncrnas have a differential abundance in exosomes  indicating a selective loading.
4946,glutamate mediates the function of melanocortin receptor 4 on sim1 neurons in body weight regulation.,the melanocortin receptor 4 (mc4r) is a well-established mediator of body weight homeostasis. however  the neurotransmitter(s) that mediate mc4r function remain largely unknown; as a result  little is known about the second-order neurons of the mc4r neural pathway. single-minded 1 (sim1)-expressing brain regions  which include the paraventricular nucleus of hypothalamus (pvh)  represent key brain sites that mediate melanocortin action. we conditionally restored mc4r expression in sim1 neurons in the background of mc4r-null mice. the restoration dramatically reduced obesity in mc4r-null mice. the anti-obesity effect was completely reversed by selective disruption of glutamate release from those same sim1 neurons. the reversal was caused by lower energy expenditure and hyperphagia. corroboratively  selective disruption of glutamate release from adult pvh neurons led to rapid obesity development via reduced energy expenditure and hyperphagia. thus  this study establishes glutamate as the primary neurotransmitter that mediates mc4rs on sim1 neurons in body weight regulation.
4948,a plasma membrane component able to bind and alter virions of poliovirus type 1: studies on cell-free alteration using a simplified assay.,abstract intact hela cells can bind virions of poliovirus type 1 and can subsequently convert them to altered particles by incubation at 37°. altered particles sediment more slowly than virions  have lost vp-4  and are disrupted by sodium dodecyl sulfate  but their rna is intact and ribonuclease insensitive. these characteristics allow assay of altered particles and of particles that have released their rna  using nuclease digestion with or without sodium dodecyl sulfate treatment. with this simple assay procedure  quantitative parameters of binding and alteration can be measured. the binding-altering activity can be localized in plasma membranes  and pure membranes can be shown to carry out alteration. the membrane-bound activity is abolished by proteases and by nonionic detergents. only altered particles are formed by membranes; release of rna is not caused by membranes but is caused by intact cells. binding and alteration are processes that are closely associated; it is possible that alteration is a consequence of binding by multiple receptors in a fluid membrane.
4950,thalassemia and malaria: new insights into an old problem.,the hemoglobinopathies are probably the world's most common genetic diseases: the world health organization has estimated that at least 5% of the population are carriers for one or other of the most serious forms  the alpha- and beta-thalassemias and the structural variant hemoglobins s  c  and e  which are found at polymorphic frequencies in many countries. all these hemoglobinopathies are believed to provide protection against malaria  and it is thought that  in malarial regions of the world  natural selection has been responsible for elevating and maintaining their gene frequencies  an idea first proposed 50 years ago by j.b.s. haldane. epidemiological studies undertaken in the 1950s on hemoglobin s in africa provided support for the "malaria hypothesis " but until recently it has proved extremely difficult to verify it for the thalassemias. the application of molecular methods has  however  provided new opportunities to address this old question. population and molecular genetic analysis of thalassemia variants  and microepidemiological studies of the relationship between alpha-thalassemia and malaria in the southwest pacific  have provided unequivocal evidence for protection. surprisingly  some of this protection appears to derive from enhanced susceptibility in very young thalassemic children to both plasmodium falciparum and  especially  p. vivax  and this early exposure appears to provide the basis for better protection in later life.
4952,extravasation injuries on regional neonatal units.,this survey of regional neonatal intensive care units determined a prevalence of 38 per 1000 neonates who sustained an extravasation injury that caused skin necrosis. most injuries occurred in infants of 26 weeks gestation or less  with parenteral nutrition infused through intravenous cannulae. common treatments were exposing wounds to the air  infiltration with hyaluronidase and saline  and occlusive dressings.
4954,phase 2 safety trial targeting amyloid beta production with a gamma-secretase inhibitor in alzheimer disease.,objective to evaluate the safety  tolerability  and amyloid beta (abeta) response to the gamma-secretase inhibitor ly450139 in alzheimer disease. design multicenter  randomized  double-blind  dose-escalation  placebo-controlled trial. setting community-based clinical research centers. patients fifty-one individuals with mild to moderate alzheimer disease were randomized to receive placebo (n=15) or ly450139 (100 mg [n=22] or 140 mg [n=14])  with 43 completing the treatment phase. intervention the ly450139 groups received 60 mg/d for 2 weeks  then 100 mg/d for 6 weeks  and then either 100 or 140 mg/d for 6 additional weeks. main outcome measures primary outcome measures were adverse events  plasma and cerebrospinal fluid abeta levels  vital signs  electrocardiographic data  and laboratory safety test results. secondary outcome measures included the alzheimer's disease assessment scale cognitive subscale and the alzheimer's disease cooperative study activities of daily living scale. results group differences were seen in skin and subcutaneous tissue concerns (p=.05)  including 3 possible drug rashes and 3 reports of hair color change in the treatment groups. there were 3 adverse event-related discontinuations  including 1 transient bowel obstruction. the plasma abeta(40) concentration was reduced by 58.2% for the 100-mg group and 64.6% for the 140-mg group (p<.001). no significant reduction was seen in cerebrospinal fluid abeta levels. no group differences were seen in cognitive or functional measures. conclusions ly450139 was generally well tolerated at doses of up to 140 mg/d for 14 weeks  with several findings indicating the need for close clinical monitoring in future studies. decreases in plasma abeta concentrations were consistent with inhibition of gamma-secretase. trial registration clinicaltrials.gov identifier: nct00244322.
4956,induction of the heat-shock response by carbon dioxide in chironomus thummi.,the effects of a set of stress treatments on gene expression of chironomus thummi salivary gland cells have been analyzed. among the treatments assayed  only during recovery from carbon dioxide have we observed a response similar to that previously described after heat-shock treatment: induction of the heat-shock puffs and synthesis of the heat-shock polypeptides. in these conditions  puffing and transcription of telomeric regions were observed  which led to the appearance of the temperature-inducible telomeric balbiani ring t-br-iii. other treatments failed to induce the heat-shock response  despite promoting real stress conditions to c. thummi larvae or salivary gland cells.
4958,techniques and probes for the study of xenopus tropicalis development.,the frog xenopus laevis has provided significant insights into developmental and cellular processes. however  x. laevis has an allotetraploid genome precluding its use in forward genetic analysis. genetic analysis may be applicable to xenopus (silurana) tropicalis  which has a diploid genome and a shorter generation time. here  we show that many tools for the study of x. laevis development can be applied to x. tropicalis. by using the developmental staging system of nieuwkoop and faber  we find that x. tropicalis embryos develop at similar rates to x. laevis  although they tolerate a narrower range of temperatures. we also show that many of the analytical reagents available for x. laevis can be effectively transferred to x. tropicalis. the x. laevis protocol for whole-mount in situ hybridization to mrna transcripts can be successfully applied to x. tropicalis without alteration. additionally  x. laevis probes often work in x. tropicalis--alleviating the immediate need to clone the x. tropicalis orthologs before initiating developmental studies. antibodies that react against x. laevis proteins can effectively detect the x. tropicalis protein by using established immunohistochemistry procedures. antisense morpholino oligonucleotides (mos) offer a new alternative to study loss of gene activity during development. we show that mos function in x. tropicalis. finally  x. tropicalis offers the possibility for forward genetics and genomic analysis.
4960,effect of losartan on ambulatory short-term blood pressure variability and cardiovascular remodeling in hypertensive patients on hemodialysis.,objective previous studies have shown increases in ambulatory short-term blood pressure (bp) variability to be related to cardiovascular disease. in this study  we examined whether an angiotensin ii type 1 receptor blocker losartan would improve ambulatory short-term bp variability in hypertensive patients on hemodialysis. methods forty hypertensive patients on hemodialysis therapy were randomly assigned to the losartan treatment group (n=20) or the control treatment group (n=20). at baseline and 6 and 12 months after the treatment  24-h ambulatory bp monitoring was performed. echocardiography and measurements of brachial-ankle pulse wave velocity (bapwv) and biochemical parameters were also performed before and after therapy. results after 6- and 12-months of treatment  nighttime short-term bp variability  assessed on the basis of the coefficient of variation of ambulatory bp  was significantly decreased in the losartan group  but remained unchanged in the control group. compared with the control group  losartan significantly decreased left ventricular mass index (lvmi)  bapwv  and the plasma levels of brain natriuretic peptide and advanced glycation end products (age). furthermore  multiple regression analysis showed significant correlations between changes in lvmi and changes in nighttime short-term bp variability  as well as between changes in lvmi and changes in the plasma levels of age. conclusion these results suggest that losartan is beneficial for the suppression of pathological cardiovascular remodeling though its inhibitory effect on ambulatory short-term bp variability during nighttime.
4962,a european perspective on population studies of dementia.,the change in the world's age demographics and the predicted rise in the incidence of age-related diseases  including dementia  is a source of major public health concern. major research effort in both the united states and europe has been targeted toward understanding the pathogenesis and epidemiology of dementia. this article presents a general overview of the history of dementia research in europe and how it compares with that in the united states. the review highlights the common issues which both u.s. and european researchers have identified and attempted to tackle. to maximize information gained from studies across the world  better harmonization of methodology is needed  as informed from current research practice.
4964,a sperm cytoskeletal protein that signals oocyte meiotic maturation and ovulation.,caenorhabditis elegans oocytes  like those of most animals  arrest during meiotic prophase. sperm promote the resumption of meiosis (maturation) and contraction of smooth muscle-like gonadal sheath cells  which are required for ovulation. we show that the major sperm cytoskeletal protein (msp) is a bipartite signal for oocyte maturation and sheath contraction. msp also functions in sperm locomotion  playing a role analogous to actin. thus  during evolution  msp has acquired extracellular signaling and intracellular cytoskeletal functions for reproduction. proteins with msp-like domains are found in plants  fungi  and other animals  suggesting that related signaling functions may exist in other phyla.
4966,conditional economic incentives for reducing hiv risk behaviors: integration of psychology and behavioral economics.,objective this article reviews psychology and behavioral economic approaches to hiv prevention  and examines the integration and application of these approaches in conditional economic incentive (cei) programs for reducing hiv risk behavior. methods we discuss the history of hiv prevention approaches  highlighting the important insights and limitations of psychological theories. we provide an overview of the theoretical tenets of behavioral economics that are relevant to hiv prevention  and utilize ceis as an illustrative example of how traditional psychological theories and behavioral economics can be combined into new approaches for hiv prevention. results behavioral economic interventions can complement psychological frameworks for reducing hiv risk by introducing unique theoretical understandings about the conditions under which risky decisions are amenable to intervention. findings from illustrative cei programs show mixed but generally promising effects of economic interventions on hiv and sexually transmitted infection (sti) prevalence  hiv testing  hiv medication adherence  and drug use. conclusions cei programs can complement psychological interventions for hiv prevention and behavioral risk reduction. to maximize program effectiveness  cei programs must be designed according to contextual and population-specific factors that may determine intervention applicability and success.
4968,interleukin-6 and interleukin-8 levels in serum and synovial fluid of patients with osteoarthritis.,concentrations of interleukin (il)-6 and il-8 in serum and synovial fluid obtained from patients with osteoarthritis (oa) of the knee were determined by the chemiluminescence-elisa (cl-elisa) method  the sensitivity of which is 100-1 000 times greater than that of the conventional elisa method. the results were compared with those obtained from patients with rheumatoid arthritis (ra) and from healthy subjects. the mean il-6 and il-8 levels in synovial fluid indicated higher concentrations in ra than in oa. the il-6 and il-8 levels in serum were significantly higher in ra and oa relative to controls. among oa patients in whom remarkable improvement was noted in hydrarthrosis  the synovial fluid il-6 and il-8 levels at the initial examination were relatively higher  and were markedly decreased after treatment with sodium hyaluronate (naha). among those in whom no improvement was noted in hydrarthrosis  the synovial fluid il-6 and il-8 levels at the time of initial examination were relatively lower  and hydrarthrosis was not significantly improved even after treatment with naha. in addition  there was a tendency for the synovial fluid il-6 and il-8 levels to decrease as ha levels increased. evaluation of x-ray findings revealed that the il-6 levels in synovial fluid at the initial examination in low-grade cases tended to be significantly higher than in high-grade cases. in low-grade cases  as determined by x-ray findings  there was a significant decrease in il-6 levels in synovial fluid after treatment with naha.
4970,eicosapentaenoic acid is converted via ω-3 epoxygenation to the anti-inflammatory metabolite 12-hydroxy-17 18-epoxyeicosatetraenoic acid.,eicosapentaenoic acid (epa) has beneficial effects in many inflammatory disorders. in this study  dietary epa was converted to 17 18-epoxyeicosatetraenoic acid (17 18-epete) by ω-3 epoxygenation in the mouse peritoneal cavity. mediator lipidomics revealed a series of novel oxygenated metabolites of 17 18-epete  and one of the major metabolites  12-hydroxy-17 18-epoxyeicosatetraenoic acid (12-oh-17 18-epete)  displayed a potent anti-inflammatory action by limiting neutrophil infiltration in murine zymosan-induced peritonitis. 12-oh-17 18-epete inhibited leukotriene b4-induced neutrophil chemotaxis and polarization in vitro in a low nanomolar range (ec50 0.6 nm). the complete structures of two natural isomers were assigned as 12s-oh-17r 18s-epete and 12s-oh-17s 18r-epete  using chemically synthesized stereoisomers. these natural isomers displayed potent anti-inflammatory action  whereas the unnatural stereoisomers were essentially devoid of activity. these results demonstrate that 17 18-epete derived from dietary epa is converted to a potent bioactive metabolite 12-oh-17 18-epete  which may generate an endogenous anti-inflammatory metabolic pathway.
4972,cyclin a2 is an rna binding protein that controls mre11 mrna translation,cyclin a2 activates the cyclin-dependent kinases cdk1 and cdk2 and is expressed at elevated levels from s phase until early mitosis. we found that mutant mice that cannot elevate cyclin a2 are chromosomally unstable and tumor-prone. underlying the chromosomal instability is a failure to up-regulate the meiotic recombination 11 (mre11) nuclease in s phase  which leads to impaired resolution of stalled replication forks  insufficient repair of double-stranded dna breaks  and improper segregation of sister chromosomes. unexpectedly  cyclin a2 controlled mre11 abundance through a c-terminal rna binding domain that selectively and directly binds mre11 transcripts to mediate polysome loading and translation. these data reveal cyclin a2 as a mechanistically diverse regulator of dna replication combining multifaceted kinase-dependent functions with a kinase-independent  rna binding–dependent role that ensures adequate repair of common replication errors.
4974,gender differences in the utilization of health care services.,background studies have shown that women use more health care services than men. we used important independent variables  such as patient sociodemographics and health status  to investigate gender differences in the use and costs of these services. methods new adult patients (n = 509) were randomly assigned to primary care physicians at a university medical center. their use of health care services and associated charges were monitored for 1 year of care. self-reported health status was measured using the medical outcomes study short form-36 (sf-36). we controlled for health status  sociodemographic information  and primary care physician specialty in the statistical analyses. results women had significantly lower self-reported health status and lower mean education and income than men. women had a significantly higher mean number of visits to their primary care clinic and diagnostic services than men. mean charges for primary care  specialty care  emergency treatment  diagnostic services  and annual total charges were all significantly higher for women than men; however  there were no differences for mean hospitalizations or hospital charges. after controlling for health status  sociodemographics  and clinic assignment  women still had higher medical charges for all categories of charges except hospitalizations. conclusions women have higher medical care service utilization and higher associated charges than men. although the appropriateness of these differences was not determined  these findings have implications for health care.
4976,detection and comparison of epidermal growth factor receptor mutations in cells and fluid of malignant pleural effusion in non-small cell lung cancer.,cells or cell-free fluid of malignant pleural effusion could be important clinical specimen for epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) mutation screening in advanced non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) patients. however  their usefulness in mutation detection has not been well compared. in this study we recruited 26 east asian nsclc patients with malignant pleural effusion  determined the mutation status of egfr in both cells and matched cell-free fluid with the use of sequencing and mutant-enriched pcr. after comparing the mutation spectrums  we found both the cells and cell-free pleural fluid may be feasible clinical specimen for egfr mutation detection in unresectable nsclc given sensitive genotyping assays employed. direct sequencing could miss a significant portion of mutations in these heterogeneous specimens. more sensitive methods  such as mutant-enriched pcr and gene scan  could provide more reliable mutational information.
4978,sedimentation velocity method in the analytical ultracentrifuge for the study of protein-protein interactions.,sedimentation analysis in the analytical ultracentrifuge can be employed to detect macromolecular interactions. whenever two molecules interact the mass of the resulting complex is increased and this is reflected in the sedimentation behavior. in this chapter we discuss how this phenomenon can be utilized to determine quantitative parameters of an interaction. an example  interaction of single-stranded dna binding protein with a subunit of dna polymerase iii holoenzyme is given together with a thorough treatment of the relating theory and a description of evaluation algorithms.
4980,turning blood into brain: cells bearing neuronal antigens generated in vivo from bone marrow.,bone marrow stem cells give rise to a variety of hematopoietic lineages and repopulate the blood throughout adult life. we show that  in a strain of mice incapable of developing cells of the myeloid and lymphoid lineages  transplanted adult bone marrow cells migrated into the brain and differentiated into cells that expressed neuron-specific antigens. these findings raise the possibility that bone marrow-derived cells may provide an alternative source of neurons in patients with neurodegenerative diseases or central nervous system injury.
4982,nef induces multiple genes involved in cholesterol synthesis and uptake in human immunodeficiency virus type 1-infected t cells.,several recent reports indicate that cholesterol might play an important role in human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (hiv-1) replication. we investigated the effects of hiv-1 infection on cholesterol biosynthesis and uptake using microarrays. hiv-1 increased gene expression of cholesterol genes in both transformed t-cell lines and primary cd4(+) t cells. consistent with our microarray data  (14)c-labeled mevalonate and acetate incorporation was increased in hiv-1-infected cells. our data also demonstrate that changes in cholesterol biosynthesis and uptake are only observed in the presence of functional nef  suggesting that increased cholesterol synthesis may contribute to nef-mediated enhancement of virion infectivity and viral replication.
4984,therapeutic clearance of amyloid by antibodies to serum amyloid p component.,background the amyloid fibril deposits that cause systemic amyloidosis always contain the nonfibrillar normal plasma protein  serum amyloid p component (sap). the drug (r)-1-[6-[(r)-2-carboxy-pyrrolidin-1-yl]-6-oxo-hexanoyl]pyrrolidine-2-carboxylic acid (cphpc) efficiently depletes sap from the plasma but leaves some sap in amyloid deposits that can be specifically targeted by therapeutic igg anti-sap antibodies. in murine amyloid a type amyloidosis  the binding of these antibodies to the residual sap in amyloid deposits activates complement and triggers the rapid clearance of amyloid by macrophage-derived multinucleated giant cells. methods we conducted an open-label  single-dose-escalation  phase 1 trial involving 15 patients with systemic amyloidosis. after first using cphpc to deplete circulating sap  we infused a fully humanized monoclonal igg1 anti-sap antibody. patients with clinical evidence of cardiac involvement were not included for safety reasons. organ function  inflammatory markers  and amyloid load were monitored. results there were no serious adverse events. infusion reactions occurred in some of the initial recipients of larger doses of antibody; reactions were reduced by slowing the infusion rate for later patients. at 6 weeks  patients who had received a sufficient dose of antibody in relation to their amyloid load had decreased liver stiffness  as measured with the use of transient elastography. these patients also had improvements in liver function in association with a substantial reduction in hepatic amyloid load  as shown by means of sap scintigraphy and measurement of extracellular volume by magnetic resonance imaging. a reduction in kidney amyloid load and shrinkage of an amyloid-laden lymph node were also observed. conclusions treatment with cphpc followed by an anti-sap antibody safely triggered clearance of amyloid deposits from the liver and some other tissues. (funded by glaxosmithkline; clinicaltrials.gov number  nct01777243.).
4986,protein kinase ck2 modulates developmental functions of the abscisic acid responsive protein rab17 from maize.,the maize abscisic acid responsive protein rab17 is a highly phosphorylated late embryogenesis abundant protein involved in plant responses to stress. in this study  we provide evidence of the importance of rab17 phosphorylation by protein kinase ck2 in growth-related processes under stress conditions. we show the specific interaction of rab17 with the ck2 regulatory subunits ck2 beta-1 and ck2 beta-3  and that these interactions do not depend on the phosphorylation state of rab17. live-cell fluorescence imaging of both ck2 and rab17 indicates that the intracellular dynamics of rab17 are regulated by ck2 phosphorylation. we found both ck2 beta subunits and rab17 distributed over the cytoplasm and nucleus. by contrast  catalytic ck2 alpha subunits and a rab17 mutant protein (mrab17) that is not a substrate for ck2 phosphorylation remain accumulated in the nucleoli. a dual-color image shows that the ck2 holoenzyme accumulates mainly in the nucleus. the importance of rab17 phosphorylation in vivo was assessed in transgenic plants. the overexpression of rab17  but not mrab17  arrests the process of seed germination under osmotic stress conditions. thus  the role of rab17 in growth processes is mediated through its phosphorylation by protein kinase ck2.
4988,isolation of superoxide dismutase mutants in escherichia coli: is superoxide dismutase necessary for aerobic life?,mu transposons carrying the chloramphenicol resistance marker have been inserted into the cloned escherichia coli genes soda and sodb coding for manganese superoxide dismutase (mnsod) and iron superoxide dismutase (fesod) respectively  creating mutations and gene fusions. the mutated soda or sodb genes were introduced into the bacterial chromosome by allelic exchange. the resulting mutants were shown to lack the corresponding sod by activity measurements and immunoblot analysis. aerobically  in rich medium  the absence of fesod or mnsod had no major effect on growth or sensitivity to the superoxide generator  paraquat. in minimal medium aerobic growth was not affected  but the sensitivity to paraquat was increased  especially in the soda mutant. a soda sodb double mutant completely devoid of sod was also obtained. it was able to grow aerobically in rich medium  its catalase level was unaffected and it was highly sensitive to paraquat and hydrogen peroxide; the double mutant was unable to grow aerobically on minimal glucose medium. growth could be restored by removing oxygen  by providing an sod-overproducing plasmid or by supplementing the medium with the 20 amino acids. it is concluded that the total absence of sod in e. coli creates a conditional sensitivity to oxygen.
4990,rapid clearance of human papillomavirus and implications for clinical focus on persistent infections.,health professionals and the public need to understand the natural history of human papillomavirus (hpv) infections of the cervix to best use the information provided by new molecular screening tests. we investigated outcomes of 800 carcinogenic hpv infections detected in 599 women at enrollment into a population-based cohort (guanacaste  costa rica). for individual infections  we calculated cumulative proportions of three outcomes (viral clearance  persistence without cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 2 or worse [cin2+]  or persistence with new diagnosis of cin2+) at successive 6-month time points for the first 30 months of follow-up. cervical specimens were tested for carcinogenic hpv genotypes using an l1 degenerate-primer polymerase chain reaction method. infections typically cleared rapidly  with 67% (95% confidence interval [ci] = 63% to 70%) clearing by 12 months. however  among infections that persisted at least 12 months  the risk of cin2+ diagnosis by 30 months was 21% (95% ci = 15% to 28%). the risk of cin2+ diagnosis was highest among women younger than 30 years with hpv-16 infections that persisted for at least 12 months (53%; 95% ci = 29% to 76%). these findings suggest that the medical community should emphasize persistence of cervical hpv infection  not single-time detection of hpv  in management strategies and health messages.
4992,the lateral hypothalamus: a primary site mediating excitatory amino acid-elicited eating.,lateral hypothalamic (lh) injections of the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate  or its excitatory amino acid (eaa) agonists  kainic acid (ka)  d l-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazole propionic acid (ampa)  or n-methyl-d-aspartic acid (nmda)  can rapidly elicit an intense feeding response in satiated rats. to determine whether the lh is the actual locus of this effect  we compared these compounds' ability to stimulate feeding when injected into the lh  versus when injected into sites bracketing this region. food intake in groups of adult male rats was measured 1 h after injection of glutamate (30-900 nmol)  ka (0.1-1.0 nmol)  ampa (0.33-3.3 nmol)  nmda (0.33-33.3 nmol) or vehicle  through chronically implanted guide cannulas  into one of seven brain sites. these sites were: the lh  the anterior and posterior tips of the lh  the thalamus immediately dorsal to the lh  the amygdala just lateral to the lh  or the paraventricular and perifornical areas medial to the lh. the results show that across doses and agonists the eating-stimulatory effects were largest with injections into the lh. in the lh  glutamate between 300 and 900 nmol elicited a dose-dependent eating response of up to 5 g within 1 h (p < 0.01). each of the other agonists at doses of 3.3 nmol or less elicited eating responses of at least 10 g with injections into this site. injections into the other brain sites produced either no eating  or occasionally smaller and less consistent eating responses.(abstract truncated at 250 words)
4994,prolonged effect of calcium supplementation on risk of colorectal adenomas in a randomized trial.,background calcium supplementation has been shown to decrease the risk of recurrence of colorectal adenomas in randomized trials. however  the duration of this protective effect after cessation of active supplementation is not known. methods in the calcium polyp prevention study  930 subjects with a previous colorectal adenoma were randomly assigned from november 1988 through april 1992 to receive placebo or 1200 mg of elemental calcium daily for 4 years. the calcium follow-up study was an observational phase of the trial that tracked adenoma occurrence for an average of 7 years after the end of randomized treatment and gathered information regarding the use of medications  vitamins  and supplements during that time. we obtained follow-up information for 822 subjects  597 of whom underwent at least one colonoscopy after the end of study treatment and are included in this analysis. generalized linear models were used to compute relative risks (rrs) and 95% confidence intervals (cis) for the effect of randomized calcium treatment on risk of adenoma recurrence during the first 5 years after study treatment ended and during the subsequent 5 years. statistical tests were two-sided. results during the first 5 years after randomized treatment ended  subjects in the calcium group still had a substantially and statistically significantly lower risk of any adenoma than those in the placebo group (31.5% versus 43.2%; adjusted rr = 0.63  95% ci = 0.46 to 0.87  p = .005) and a smaller and not statistically significant reduction in risk of advanced adenomas (adjusted rr = 0.85  95% ci = 0.43 to 1.69  p = .65). however  the randomized treatment was not associated with the risk of any type of polyp during the next 5 years. the findings were broadly similar when the analysis was restricted to subjects who did not report use of any calcium supplements after the treatment phase of the trial ended. conclusion the protective effect of calcium supplementation on risk of colorectal adenoma recurrence extends up to 5 years after cessation of active treatment  even in the absence of continued supplementation.
4996,clinical effects of abeta immunization (an1792) in patients with ad in an interrupted trial.,background an1792 (beta-amyloid [abeta]1-42) immunization reduces abeta plaque burden and preserves cognitive function in app transgenic mice. the authors report the results of a phase iia immunotherapy trial of an1792(qs-21) in patients with mild to moderate alzheimer disease (ad) that was interrupted because of meningoencephalitis in 6% of immunized patients. methods this randomized  multicenter  placebo-controlled  double-blind trial of im an1792 225 microg plus the adjuvant qs-21 50 microg (300 patients) and saline (72 patients) included patients aged 50 to 85 years with probable ad  mini-mental state examination (mmse) 15 to 26. injections were planned for months 0  1  3  6  9  and 12. safety and tolerability were evaluated  and pilot efficacy (ad assessment scale-cognitive subscale [adas-cog]  mri  neuropsychological test battery [ntb]  csf tau  and abeta42) was assessed in anti-an1792 antibody responder patients (immunoglobulin g titer > or = 1:2 200). results following reports of meningoencephalitis (overall 18/300 [6%])  immunization was stopped after one (2 patients)  two (274 patients)  or three (24 patients) injections. of the 300 an1792(qs-21)-treated patients  59 (19.7%) developed the predetermined antibody response. double-blind assessments were maintained for 12 months. no significant differences were found between antibody responder and placebo groups for adas-cog  disability assessment for dementia  clinical dementia rating  mmse  or clinical global impression of change  but analyses of the z-score composite across the ntb revealed differences favoring antibody responders (0.03 +/- 0.37 vs -0.20 +/- 0.45; p = 0.020). in the small subset of subjects who had csf examinations  csf tau was decreased in antibody responders (n = 11) vs placebo subjects (n = 10; p < 0.001). conclusion although interrupted  this trial provides an indication that abeta immunotherapy may be useful in alzheimer disease.
4998,activation of lysosomal function during dendritic cell maturation.,in response to a variety of stimuli  dendritic cells (dcs) transform from immature cells specialized for antigen capture into mature cells specialized for t cell stimulation. during maturation  the dcs acquire an enhanced capacity to form and accumulate peptide-mhc (major histocompatibility complex) class ii complexes. here we show that a key mechanism responsible for this alteration was the generalized activation of lysosomal function. in immature dcs  internalized antigens were slowly degraded and inefficiently used for peptide loading. maturation induced activation of the vacuolar proton pump that enhanced lysosomal acidification and antigen proteolysis  facilitating efficient formation of peptide-mhc class ii complexes. lysosomal function in dcs thus appears to be specialized for the developmentally regulated processing of internalized antigens.
5000,retinoblastoma regulatory pathway in lung cancer.,lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer related deaths accounting for more deaths than breast  colon and prostate cancers combined. the rb-p16 regulatory pathway plays an essential role in tumor suppression in the lung epithelium. this is evidenced by the nearly universal alterations in rb-p16 pathway components in lung cancer  and the increased incidence of pulmonary carcinomas in persons with germline rb mutations. interestingly  p16 loss and rb mutations preferentially occur in phenotypically distinct lung cancer subtypes. analysis of human tumors has identified progressive preneoplastic lesions that accumulate molecular alterations in an orderly sequence. epigenetic p16 gene modifications represent an early event in lung cancer progression. this review summarizes the human studies that demonstrate a critical role for the rb-p16 tumor suppressor pathway in lung carcinogenesis  and discusses how these findings in combination with genetically engineered mouse models have significantly contributed to our understanding of lung cancer pathogenesis.
5002,chronic exercise increases both inducible and endothelial nitric oxide synthase gene expression in endothelial cells of rat aorta,chronic exercise upregulates endothelial nitric oxide synthase (enos) gene expression. whether the expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (inos) is affected by exercise is unknown. we therefore investigated the effects of chronic exercise on inos and enos expression in isolated rat aortic endothelial and smooth muscle cells separately. five-week-old male wistar rats were randomly divided into control and exercise groups. after 10 weeks of running training  animals were sacrificed under ether anesthesia. the standard curve quantitative competitive reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction method was used to quantify nos mrna expression in isolated endothelial/smooth muscle cells. to evaluate the functional role of inos  we examined phenylephrine-induced vascular responses with or without pretreatment with aminoguanidine. we found that (1) expression of inos and enos mrna in endothelial cells was increased by chronic exercise and (2) chronic exercise blunted phenylephrine-induced vascular responses  probably by increasing no release via inos. our results show that chronic exercise increases both inos and enos gene expression in endothelium. these alterations may be partially responsible for the change in vascular response after exercise.
5004,interaction of cytosine arabinoside and lovastatin in human leukemia cells.,cytosine arabinoside (ara-c) is widely used for the treatment of leukemias and displays significant toxicities. lovastatin  an hmg-coa reductase inhibitor  is extensively used to treat hypercholesterolemia. to determine whether lovastatin could augment ara-c's activity we have examined their effects in the human erythroleukemia k562 cell line and the ara-c resistant arac8d cell line. a synergistic interaction between the two drugs was found. we have demonstrated that the interaction does not occur at the level of ras but may involve lovastatin's effect of downregulating mapk activity and preventing ara-c-induced mapk activation. these studies represent the first description of a potentially beneficial interaction between lovastatin and ara-c that could be applied to the treatment of human leukemia.
5006,prediction of creatinine clearance from serum creatinine.,a formula has been developed to predict creatinine clearance (ccr) from serum creatinine (scr) in adult males: (see article)(15% less in females). derivation included the relationship found between age and 24-hour creatinine excretion/kg in 249 patients aged 18-92. values for ccr were predicted by this formula and four other methods and the results compared with the means of two 24-hour ccr's measured in 236 patients. the above formula gave a correlation coefficient between predicted and mean measured ccr's of 0.83; on average  the difference predicted and mean measured values was no greater than that between paired clearances. factors for age and body weight must be included for reasonable prediction.
5008,crispr–cas9 genome editing induces a p53-mediated dna damage response,here  we report that genome editing by crispr–cas9 induces a p53-mediated dna damage response and cell cycle arrest in immortalized human retinal pigment epithelial cells  leading to a selection against cells with a functional p53 pathway. inhibition of p53 prevents the damage response and increases the rate of homologous recombination from a donor template. these results suggest that p53 inhibition may improve the efficiency of genome editing of untransformed cells and that p53 function should be monitored when developing cell-based therapies utilizing crispr–cas9. crispr–cas9-induced dna damage triggers p53 to limit the efficiency of gene editing in immortalized human retinal pigment epithelial cells.
5010,staphylococcus aureus infection dynamics,staphylococcus aureus is a human commensal that can also cause systemic infections. this transition requires evasion of the immune response and the ability to exploit different niches within the host. however  the disease mechanisms and the dominant immune mediators against infection are poorly understood. previously it has been shown that the infecting s. aureus population goes through a population bottleneck  from which very few bacteria escape to establish the abscesses that are characteristic of many infections. here we examine the host factors underlying the population bottleneck and subsequent clonal expansion in s. aureus infection models  to identify underpinning principles of infection. the bottleneck is a common feature between models and is independent of s. aureus strain. interestingly  the high doses of s. aureus required for the widely used "survival" model results in a reduced population bottleneck  suggesting that host defences have been simply overloaded. this brings into question the applicability of the survival model. depletion of immune mediators revealed key breakpoints and the dynamics of systemic infection. loss of macrophages  including the liver kupffer cells  led to increased sensitivity to infection as expected but also loss of the population bottleneck and the spread to other organs still occurred. conversely  neutrophil depletion led to greater susceptibility to disease but with a concomitant maintenance of the bottleneck and lack of systemic spread. we also used a novel microscopy approach to examine abscess architecture and distribution within organs. from these observations we developed a conceptual model for s. aureus disease from initial infection to mature abscess. this work highlights the need to understand the complexities of the infectious process to be able to assign functions for host and bacterial components  and why s. aureus disease requires a seemingly high infectious dose and how interventions such as a vaccine may be more rationally developed.
5012,key questions about the checkpoint blockade-are micrornas an answer?,the introduction of immune-checkpoint blockade in the cancer therapy led to a paradigm change of the management of late stage cancers. there are already multiple fda approved checkpoint inhibitors and many other agents are undergoing phase 2 and early phase 3 clinical trials. the therapeutic indication of immune checkpoint inhibitors expanded in the last years  but still remains unclear who can benefit. micrornas are small rnas with no coding potential. by complementary pairing to the 3' untranslated region of messenger rna  micrornas exert posttranscriptional control of protein expression. a network of micrornas directly and indirectly controls the expression of checkpoint receptors and several micrornas can target multiple checkpoint molecules  mimicking the therapeutic effect of a combined immune checkpoint blockade. in this review  we will describe the micrornas that control the expression of immune checkpoints and we will present four specific issues of the immune checkpoint therapy in cancer: (1) imprecise therapeutic indication  (2) difficult response evaluation  (3) numerous immunologic adverse-events  and (4) the absence of response to immune therapy. finally  we propose micrornas as possible solutions for these pitfalls. we consider that in the near future micrornas could become important therapeutic partners of the immune checkpoint therapy.
5014,are expert athletes 'expert' in the cognitive laboratory? a meta-analytic review of cognition and sport expertise,summary recent literature has demonstrated the usefulness of fitness and computer-based cognitive training as a means to enhance cognition and brain function. however  it is unclear whether the combination of fitness and cognitive training that results from years of extensive sport training also results in superior performance on tests of cognitive processes. in this study we examine  in a quantitative meta-analysis (k ¼20)  the relationship between expertise in sports and laboratory-based measures of cognition. we found that athletes performed better on measures of processing speed and a category of varied attentionalparadigms  andathletesfrominterceptive sporttypesandmalesshowedthelargesteffects. based on our results  more research should be done with higher-level cognitive tasks  such as tasks of executive function and more varied sub-domains of visual attention. furthermore  future studies should incorporate more female athletes and use a diverse range of sport types and levelsof expertise.
5016,comparison of glioblastoma (gbm) molecular classification methods.,glioblastoma (gbm) is the most aggressive and common form of brain cancer in adults. gbm is characterized by poor survival and remarkably high tumors heterogeneity (both intertumoral and intratumoral)  and lack of effective therapies. recent high-throughput data revealed heterogeneous genetic/genomic/epigenetic features and led to multiple methods aiming to classify tumors according to the key molecular events that drive the most aggressive cellular components so that targeted therapies can be developed for individual subtypes. however  gbm molecular subtypes have not led to improvement of patients outcomes. targeted or tailored therapies for specific mutations or subtypes largely failed due to the complexities arising from intratumoral molecular heterogeneity. most tumors develop resistance to treatment and soon recur. gbm stem cells (gscs) have been identified. recent single cell sequencing studies of gbm suggest that intratumoral cellular heterogeneity can be partially explained by tumor cell hierarchy arising from gbm stem cells. therefore  the molecular subtypes based on patient derived gscs may potentially lead to more effective subtype-specific treatments. in this paper  we review the molecular alterations of gbm and molecular subtyping methods as well as subtype plasticity in primary and recurrent tumors emphasizing the clinical relevance of potential targets for further drug development.
5018,delta–notch—and then? protein interactions and proposed modes of repression by hes and hey bhlh factors,hes and hey genes are the mammalian counterparts of the hairy and enhancer-of-split type of genes in drosophila and they represent the primary targets of the delta-notch signaling pathway. hairy-related factors control multiple steps of embryonic development and misregulation is associated with various defects. hes and hey genes (also called hesr  chf  hrt  herp or gridlock) encode transcriptional regulators of the basic helix-loop-helix class that mainly act as repressors. the molecular details of how hes and hey proteins control transcription are still poorly understood  however. proposed modes of action include direct binding to n- or e-box dna sequences of target promoters as well as indirect binding through other sequence-specific transcription factors or sequestration of transcriptional activators. repression may rely on recruitment of corepressors and induction of histone modifications  or even interference with the general transcriptional machinery. all of these models require extensive protein-protein interactions. here we review data published on protein-protein and protein-dna interactions of hairy-related factors and discuss their implications for transcriptional regulation. in addition  we summarize recent progress on the identification of potential target genes and the analysis of mouse models.
5020,bcap links il-1r to the pi3k–mtor pathway and regulates pathogenic th17 cell differentiation,the toll-like receptor (tlr) and interleukin (il)-1 family of receptors share several signaling components  including the most upstream adapter  myd88. we previously reported the discovery of b cell adapter for phosphoinositide 3-kinase (bcap) as a novel toll-il-1 receptor homology domain-containing adapter that regulates inflammatory responses downstream of tlr signaling. here we find that bcap plays a critical role downstream of both il-1 and il-18 receptors to regulate t helper (th) 17 and th1 cell differentiation  respectively. absence of t cell intrinsic bcap did not alter development of naturally arising th1 and th17 lineages but led to defects in differentiation to pathogenic th17 lineage cells. consequently  mice that lack bcap in t cells had reduced susceptibility to experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. more importantly  we found that bcap is critical for il-1r-induced phosphoinositide 3-kinase-akt-mechanistic target of rapamycin (mtor) activation  and minimal inhibition of mtor completely abrogated il-1β-induced differentiation of pathogenic th17 cells  mimicking bcap deficiency. this study establishes bcap as a critical link between il-1r and the metabolic status of activated t cells that ultimately regulates the differentiation of inflammatory th17 cells.
5022,alcohol use and burden for 195 countries and territories  1990–2016: a systematic analysis for the global burden of disease study 2016,summary background alcohol use is a leading risk factor for death and disability  but its overall association with health remains complex given the possible protective effects of moderate alcohol consumption on some conditions. with our comprehensive approach to health accounting within the global burden of diseases  injuries  and risk factors study 2016  we generated improved estimates of alcohol use and alcohol-attributable deaths and disability-adjusted life-years (dalys) for 195 locations from 1990 to 2016  for both sexes and for 5-year age groups between the ages of 15 years and 95 years and older. methods using 694 data sources of individual and population-level alcohol consumption  along with 592 prospective and retrospective studies on the risk of alcohol use  we produced estimates of the prevalence of current drinking  abstention  the distribution of alcohol consumption among current drinkers in standard drinks daily (defined as 10 g of pure ethyl alcohol)  and alcohol-attributable deaths and dalys. we made several methodological improvements compared with previous estimates: first  we adjusted alcohol sales estimates to take into account tourist and unrecorded consumption; second  we did a new meta-analysis of relative risks for 23 health outcomes associated with alcohol use; and third  we developed a new method to quantify the level of alcohol consumption that minimises the overall risk to individual health. findings globally  alcohol use was the seventh leading risk factor for both deaths and dalys in 2016  accounting for 2·2% (95% uncertainty interval [ui] 1·5–3·0) of age-standardised female deaths and 6·8% (5·8–8·0) of age-standardised male deaths. among the population aged 15–49 years  alcohol use was the leading risk factor globally in 2016  with 3·8% (95% ui 3·2–4·3) of female deaths and 12·2% (10·8–13·6) of male deaths attributable to alcohol use. for the population aged 15–49 years  female attributable dalys were 2·3% (95% ui 2·0–2·6) and male attributable dalys were 8·9% (7·8–9·9). the three leading causes of attributable deaths in this age group were tuberculosis (1·4% [95% ui 1·0–1·7] of total deaths)  road injuries (1·2% [0·7–1·9])  and self-harm (1·1% [0·6–1·5]). for populations aged 50 years and older  cancers accounted for a large proportion of total alcohol-attributable deaths in 2016  constituting 27·1% (95% ui 21·2–33·3) of total alcohol-attributable female deaths and 18·9% (15·3–22·6) of male deaths. the level of alcohol consumption that minimised harm across health outcomes was zero (95% ui 0·0–0·8) standard drinks per week. interpretation alcohol use is a leading risk factor for global disease burden and causes substantial health loss. we found that the risk of all-cause mortality  and of cancers specifically  rises with increasing levels of consumption  and the level of consumption that minimises health loss is zero. these results suggest that alcohol control policies might need to be revised worldwide  refocusing on efforts to lower overall population-level consumption. funding bill & melinda gates foundation.
5024,acute and chronic exercise in patients with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction: evidence of structural and functional plasticity and intact angiogenic signalling in skeletal muscle,key points the vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) responses to acute submaximal exercise and training effects in patients with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (hfref) were investigated. six patients and six healthy matched controls performed knee-extensor exercise (ke) at 50% of maximum work rate before and after (only patients) ke training. muscle biopsies were taken to assess skeletal muscle structure and the angiogenic response. before training  during this submaximal ke exercise  patients with hfref exhibited higher leg vascular resistance and greater noradrenaline spillover. skeletal muscle structure and vegf response were generally not different between groups. following training  resistance was no longer elevated and noradrenaline spillover was curtailed in the patients. although  in the trained state  vegf did not respond to acute exercise  capillarity was augmented. muscle fibre cross-sectional area and percentage area of type i fibres increased and mitochondrial volume density exceeded that of controls. structural/functional plasticity and appropriate angiogenic signalling were observed in skeletal muscle of patients with hfref. abstract this study examined the response to acute submaximal exercise and the effect of training in patients with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (hfref). the acute angiogenic response to submaximal exercise in hfref after small muscle mass training is debated. the direct fick method  with vascular pressures  was performed across the leg during knee-extensor exercise (ke) at 50% of maximum work rate (wrmax ) in patients (n = 6) and controls (n = 6) and then after ke training in patients. muscle biopsies facilitated the assessment of skeletal muscle structure and vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) mrna levels. prior to training  hfref exhibited significantly higher leg vascular resistance (lvr) (≈15%) and significantly greater noradrenaline spillover (≈385%). apart from mitochondrial volume density  which was significantly lower (≈22%) in hfref  initial skeletal muscle structure  including capillarity  was not different between groups. resting vegf mrna levels  and the increase with exercise  was not different between patients and controls. following training  lvr was no longer elevated and noradrenaline spillover was curtailed. skeletal muscle capillarity increased with training  as assessed by capillary-to-fibre ratio (≈13%) and number of capillaries around a fibre (ncaf ) (≈19%). vegf mrna was now not significantly increased by acute exercise. muscle fibre cross-sectional area and percentage area of type i fibres both increased significantly with training (≈18% and ≈21%  respectively)  while the percentage area of type ii fibres fell significantly (≈11%)  and mitochondrial volume density now exceeded that of controls. these data reveal structural and functional plasticity and appropriate angiogenic signalling in skeletal muscle of hfref patients.
5026,efficacy of pd-1 or pd-l1 inhibitors and pd-l1 expression status in cancer: meta-analysis,objective to evaluate the relative efficacy of programmed cell death 1 (pd-1) or programmed cell death ligand 1 (pd-l1) inhibitors versus conventional drugs in patients with cancer that were pd-l1 positive and pd-l1 negative. design meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials. data sources pubmed  embase  cochrane database  and conference abstracts presented at the american society of clinical oncology and european society of medical oncology up to march 2018. review methods studies of pd-1 or pd-l1 inhibitors (avelumab  atezolizumab  durvalumab  nivolumab  and pembrolizumab) that had available hazard ratios for death based on pd-l1 positivity or negativity were included. the threshold for pd-l1 positivity or negativity was that pd-l1 stained cell accounted for 1% of tumour cells  or tumour and immune cells  assayed by immunohistochemistry staining methods. results 4174 patients with advanced or metastatic cancers from eight randomised controlled trials were included in this study. compared with conventional agents  pd-1 or pd-l1 inhibitors were associated with significantly prolonged overall survival in both patients that were pd-l1 positive (n=2254  hazard ratio 0.66  95% confidence interval 0.59 to 0.74) and pd-l1 negative (1920  0.80  0.71 to 0.90). however  the efficacies of pd-1 or pd-l1 blockade treatment in patients that were pd-l1 positive and pd-l1 negative were significantly different (p=0.02 for interaction). additionally  in both patients that were pd-l1 positive and pd-l1 negative  the long term clinical benefits from pd-1 or pd-l1 blockade were observed consistently across interventional agent  cancer histotype  method of randomisation stratification  type of immunohistochemical scoring system  drug target  type of control group  and median follow-up time. conclusions pd-1 or pd-l1 blockade therapy is a preferable treatment option over conventional therapy for both patients that are pd-l1 positive and pd-l1 negative. this finding suggests that pd-l1 expression status alone is insufficient in determining which patients should be offered pd-1 or pd-l1 blockade therapy.
5028,gut microbiota is a key modulator of insulin resistance in tlr 2 knockout mice,environmental factors and host genetics interact to control the gut microbiota  which may have a role in the development of obesity and insulin resistance. tlr2-deficient mice  under germ-free conditions  are protected from diet-induced insulin resistance. it is possible that the presence of gut microbiota could reverse the phenotype of an animal  inducing insulin resistance in an animal genetically determined to have increased insulin sensitivity  such as the tlr2 ko mice. in the present study  we investigated the influence of gut microbiota on metabolic parameters  glucose tolerance  insulin sensitivity  and signaling of tlr2-deficient mice. we investigated the gut microbiota (by metagenomics)  the metabolic characteristics  and insulin signaling in tlr2 knockout (ko) mice in a non-germ free facility. results showed that the loss of tlr2 in conventionalized mice results in a phenotype reminiscent of metabolic syndrome  characterized by differences in the gut microbiota  with a 3-fold increase in firmicutes and a slight increase in bacteroidetes compared with controls. these changes in gut microbiota were accompanied by an increase in lps absorption  subclinical inflammation  insulin resistance  glucose intolerance  and later  obesity. in addition  this sequence of events was reproduced in wt mice by microbiota transplantation and was also reversed by antibiotics. at the molecular level the mechanism was unique  with activation of tlr4 associated with er stress and jnk activation  but no activation of the ikkβ-iκb-nfκb pathway. our data also showed that in tlr2 ko mice there was a reduction in regulatory t cell in visceral fat  suggesting that this modulation may also contribute to the insulin resistance of these animals. our results emphasize the role of microbiota in the complex network of molecular and cellular interactions that link genotype to phenotype and have potential implications for common human disorders involving obesity  diabetes  and even other immunological disorders.
5030,surviving sepsis campaign: international guidelines for management of sepsis and septic shock 2016,objective: to provide an update to “surviving sepsis campaign guidelines for management of sepsis and septic shock: 2012. ” design: a consensus committee of 55 international experts representing 25 international organizations was convened. nominal groups were assembled at key international meetings (for those committee members attending the conference). a formal conflict-of-interest (coi) policy was developed at the onset of the process and enforced throughout. a stand-alone meeting was held for all panel members in december 2015. teleconferences and electronic-based discussion among subgroups and among the entire committee served as an integral part of the development. methods: the panel consisted of five sections: hemodynamics  infection  adjunctive therapies  metabolic  and ventilation. population  intervention  comparison  and outcomes (pico) questions were reviewed and updated as needed  and evidence profiles were generated. each subgroup generated a list of questions  searched for best available evidence  and then followed the principles of the grading of recommendations assessment  development  and evaluation (grade) system to assess the quality of evidence from high to very low  and to formulate recommendations as strong or weak  or best practice statement when applicable. results: the surviving sepsis guideline panel provided 93 statements on early management and resuscitation of patients with sepsis or septic shock. overall  32 were strong recommendations  39 were weak recommendations  and 18 were best-practice statements. no recommendation was provided for four questions. conclusions: substantial agreement exists among a large cohort of international experts regarding many strong recommendations for the best care of patients with sepsis. although a significant number of aspects of care have relatively weak support  evidence-based recommendations regarding the acute management of sepsis and septic shock are the foundation of improved outcomes for these critically ill patients with high mortality.
5032,deficiency of interleukin-15 confers resistance to obesity by diminishing inflammation and enhancing the thermogenic function of adipose tissues,objective il-15 is an inflammatory cytokine secreted by many cell types. il-15 is also produced during physical exercise by skeletal muscle and has been reported to reduce weight gain in mice. contrarily  our findings on il-15 knockout (ko) mice indicate that il-15 promotes obesity. the aim of this study is to investigate the mechanisms underlying the pro-obesity role of il-15 in adipose tissues. methods control and il-15 ko mice were maintained on high fat diet (hfd) or normal control diet. after 16 weeks  body weight  adipose tissue and skeletal mass  serum lipid levels and gene/protein expression in the adipose tissues were evaluated. the effect of il-15 on thermogenesis and oxygen consumption was also studied in primary cultures of adipocytes differentiated from mouse preadipocyte and human stem cells. results our results show that il-15 deficiency prevents diet-induced weight gain and accumulation of lipids in visceral and subcutaneous white and brown adipose tissues. gene expression analysis also revealed elevated expression of genes associated with adaptive thermogenesis in the brown and subcutaneous adipose tissues of il-15 ko mice. accordingly  oxygen consumption was increased in the brown adipocytes from il-15 ko mice. in addition  il-15 ko mice showed decreased expression of pro-inflammatory mediators in their adipose tissues. conclusions absence of il-15 results in decreased accumulation of fat in the white adipose tissues and increased lipid utilization via adaptive thermogenesis. il-15 also promotes inflammation in adipose tissues that could sustain chronic inflammation leading to obesity-associated metabolic syndrome.
5034,regulation of hippo pathway transcription factor tead by p38 mapk-induced cytoplasmic translocation,the hippo pathway controls organ size and tissue homeostasis  with deregulation leading to cancer. the core hippo components in mammals are composed of the upstream serine/threonine kinases mst1/2  mapk4ks and lats1/2. inactivation of these upstream kinases leads to dephosphorylation  stabilization  nuclear translocation and thus activation of the major functional transducers of the hippo pathway  yap and its paralogue taz. yap/taz are transcription co-activators that regulate gene expression primarily through interaction with the tea domain dna-binding family of transcription factors (tead). the current paradigm for regulation of this pathway centres on phosphorylation-dependent nucleocytoplasmic shuttling of yap/taz through a complex network of upstream components. however  unlike other transcription factors  such as smad  nf-κb  nfat and stat  the regulation of tead nucleocytoplasmic shuttling has been largely overlooked. in the present study  we show that environmental stress promotes tead cytoplasmic translocation via p38 mapk in a hippo-independent manner. importantly  stress-induced tead inhibition predominates yap-activating signals and selectively suppresses yap-driven cancer cell growth. our data reveal a mechanism governing tead nucleocytoplasmic shuttling and show that tead localization is a critical determinant of hippo signalling output.
5036,guidelines for the use and interpretation of assays for monitoring autophagy.,in 2008 we published the first set of guidelines for standardizing research in autophagy. since then  research on this topic has continued to accelerate  and many new scientists have entered the field. our knowledge base and relevant new technologies have also been expanding. accordingly  it is important to update these guidelines for monitoring autophagy in different organisms. various reviews have described the range of assays that have been used for this purpose. nevertheless  there continues to be confusion regarding acceptable methods to measure autophagy  especially in multicellular eukaryotes. a key point that needs to be emphasized is that there is a difference between measurements that monitor the numbers or volume of autophagic elements (e.g.  autophagosomes or autolysosomes) at any stage of the autophagic process vs. those that measure flux through the autophagy pathway (i.e.  the complete process); thus  a block in macroautophagy that results in autophagosome accumulation needs to be differentiated from stimuli that result in increased autophagic activity  defined as increased autophagy induction coupled with increased delivery to  and degradation within  lysosomes (in most higher eukaryotes and some protists such as dictyostelium) or the vacuole (in plants and fungi). in other words  it is especially important that investigators new to the field understand that the appearance of more autophagosomes does not necessarily equate with more autophagy. in fact  in many cases  autophagosomes accumulate because of a block in trafficking to lysosomes without a concomitant change in autophagosome biogenesis  whereas an increase in autolysosomes may reflect a reduction in degradative activity. here  we present a set of guidelines for the selection and interpretation of methods for use by investigators who aim to examine macroautophagy and related processes  as well as for reviewers who need to provide realistic and reasonable critiques of papers that are focused on these processes. these guidelines are not meant to be a formulaic set of rules  because the appropriate assays depend in part on the question being asked and the system being used. in addition  we emphasize that no individual assay is guaranteed to be the most appropriate one in every situation  and we strongly recommend the use of multiple assays to monitor autophagy. in these guidelines  we consider these various methods of assessing autophagy and what information can  or cannot  be obtained from them. finally  by discussing the merits and limits of particular autophagy assays  we hope to encourage technical innovation in the field.
5038,tumor-derived exosomes induce n2 polarization of neutrophils to promote gastric cancer cell migration,background exosomes are extracellular vesicles that mediate cellular communication in health and diseases. neutrophils could be polarized to a pro-tumor phenotype by tumor. the function of tumor-derived exosomes in neutrophil regulation remains unclear. methods we investigated the effects of gastric cancer cell-derived exosomes (gc-ex) on the pro-tumor activation of neutrophils and elucidated the underlying mechanisms. results gc-ex prolonged neutrophil survival and induced expression of inflammatory factors in neutrophils. gc-ex-activated neutrophils  in turn  promoted gastric cancer cell migration. gc-ex transported high mobility group box-1 (hmgb1) that activated nf-κb pathway through interaction with tlr4  resulting in an increased autophagic response in neutrophils. blocking hmgb1/tlr4 interaction  nf-κb pathway  and autophagy reversed gc-ex-induced neutrophil activation. silencing hmgb1 in gastric cancer cells confirmed hmgb1 as a key factor for gc-ex-mediated neutrophil activation. furthermore  hmgb1 expression was upregulated in gastric cancer tissues. increased hmgb1 expression was associated with poor prognosis in patients with gastric cancer. finally  gastric cancer tissue-derived exosomes acted similarly as exosomes derived from gastric cancer cell lines in neutrophil activation. conclusion we demonstrate that gastric cancer cell-derived exosomes induce autophagy and pro-tumor activation of neutrophils via hmgb1/tlr4/nf-κb signaling  which provides new insights into mechanisms for neutrophil regulation in cancer and sheds lights on the multifaceted role of exosomes in reshaping tumor microenvironment.
5040,autophagy and its potent modulators from phytochemicals in cancer treatment,autophagy is a ubiquitous catabolic process by which damaged or harmful intracellular components are delivered to the lysosomes for self-digestion and recycling. it is critical in cancer treatment. therapy-induced autophagy predominantly acts as a pro-survival mechanism  but progressive autophagy can lead to non-apoptotic cell death  also known as autophagic cell death. plants or herbs contain various natural compounds that are widely used in the treatment of many types of malignancies. emerging evidence indicates that phytochemicals targeting the autophagic pathway are promising agents for cancer treatment. however  these compounds play different roles in autophagy. in this review  we discussed the role of autophagy in cancer development and therapy  and focussed on elucidating the anti-cancer activities of autophagic modulators  especially phytochemicals. notably  we described a novel premise that the dynamic role of phytochemicals should be evaluated in regulation of autophagy in cancer.
5042,the pfam protein families database.,pfam is a widely used database of protein families  currently containing more than 13 000 manually curated protein families as of release 26.0. pfam is available via servers in the uk (http://pfam.sanger.ac.uk/)  the usa (http://pfam.janelia.org/) and sweden (http://pfam.sbc.su.se/). here  we report on changes that have occurred since our 2010 nar paper (release 24.0). over the last 2 years  we have generated 1840 new families and increased coverage of the uniprot knowledgebase (uniprotkb) to nearly 80%. notably  we have taken the step of opening up the annotation of our families to the wikipedia community  by linking pfam families to relevant wikipedia pages and encouraging the pfam and wikipedia communities to improve and expand those pages. we continue to improve the pfam website and add new visualizations  such as the 'sunburst' representation of taxonomic distribution of families. in this work we additionally address two topics that will be of particular interest to the pfam community. first  we explain the definition and use of family-specific  manually curated gathering thresholds. second  we discuss some of the features of domains of unknown function (also known as dufs)  which constitute a rapidly growing class of families within pfam.
5044,morin exhibits anti-inflammatory effects on il-1β-stimulated human osteoarthritis chondrocytes by activating the nrf2 signaling pathway,background/aims: osteoarthritis (oa) is a multifactorial disease that is associated with inflammation in joints. the purpose of the present study was to investigate the anti-inflammatory activity and mechanism of morin on human osteoarthritis chondrocytes stimulated by il-1β. methods: the levels of no and pge2 were measured by the griess method and elisa. the levels of mmp1  mmp3  and mmp13 were also measured by elisa. results: the results revealed that il-1β significantly increased the production of no  pge2  mmp1  mmp3  and mmp13. additionally  the increases were significantly attenuated by treatment with morin. furthermore  il-1β-induced nf-κb activation was suppressed by morin. in addition  the expression of nrf2 and ho-1 were increased by morin and knockdown of nrf2 could prevent the anti-inflammatory effects of morin. conclusion: in conclusion  this study suggested that morin attenuated il-1β-induced inflammation by activating the nrf2 signaling pathway.
5046,reprogramming committed murine blood cells to induced hematopoietic stem cells with defined factors.,hematopoietic stem cells (hscs) sustain blood formation throughout life and are the functional units of bone marrow transplantation. we show that transient expression of six transcription factors run1t1  hlf  lmo2  prdm5  pbx1  and zfp37 imparts multilineage transplantation potential onto otherwise committed lymphoid and myeloid progenitors and myeloid effector cells. inclusion of mycn and meis1 and use of polycistronic viruses increase reprogramming efficacy. the reprogrammed cells  designated induced-hscs (ihscs)  possess clonal multilineage differentiation potential  reconstitute stem/progenitor compartments  and are serially transplantable. single-cell analysis revealed that ihscs derived under optimal conditions exhibit a gene expression profile that is highly similar to endogenous hscs. these findings demonstrate that expression of a set of defined factors is sufficient to activate the gene networks governing hsc functional identity in committed blood cells. our results raise the prospect that blood cell reprogramming may be a strategy for derivation of transplantable stem cells for clinical application.
5048,the mammalian-specific protein armcx1 regulates mitochondrial transport during axon regeneration,mitochondrial transport is crucial for neuronal and axonal physiology. however  whether and how it impacts neuronal injury responses  such as neuronal survival and axon regeneration  remain largely unknown. in an established mouse model with robust axon regeneration  we show that armcx1  a mammalian-specific gene encoding a mitochondria-localized protein  is upregulated after axotomy in this high regeneration condition. armcx1 overexpression enhances mitochondrial transport in adult retinal ganglion cells (rgcs). importantly  armcx1 also promotes both neuronal survival and axon regeneration after injury  and these effects depend on its mitochondrial localization. furthermore  armcx1 knockdown undermines both neuronal survival and axon regeneration in the high regenerative capacity model  further supporting a key role of armcx1 in regulating neuronal injury responses in the adult central nervous system (cns). our findings suggest that armcx1 controls mitochondrial transport during neuronal repair.
5050,a cross-cultural study of wine consumers with respect to health benefits of wine,the objective of the present study was to examine consumer preference and consumption behaviour with respect to the health benefits of wine for two contextually and culturally diverse consumer groups  namely koreans and australians. participants were required to be wine consumers over the age of 18. responses were collected by means of an online questionnaire. the results indicated that perceived health benefits of red wine were higher in the australian sample than the korean sample. similarly  australian consumers had more health related wine knowledge than korean consumers. red wine was the preferred wine style for both korean and australian consumers; however  the proportion of preference for red wine was significantly higher in the korean sample. with respect to the expenditure on wine products  aud$11–$19 was the preferred price range for both groups. the results also indicated that health-oriented wine is more attractive to korean consumers than australian consumers. in relation to gender  korean women preferred red wine as much as men  but australian women consumed significantly more white wine than men. such findings inform winemakers and wine marketers on the appropriateness of weighting wine production and marketing to health aspects in order to maximize consumer
5052,peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma (pparγ) agonist rosiglitazone ameliorate airway inflammation by inhibiting toll-like receptor 2 (tlr2)/nod-like receptor with pyrin domain containing 3 (nlrp3) inflammatory corpuscle activation in asthmatic mice,background the purpose of this study was to explore the function and mechanism of peroxisome proliferator activated receptor agonist (pparγ) in the toll-like receptor 2 (tlr2)/nod-like receptor with pyrin domain containing 3 (nlrp3) inflammatory corpuscle pathway of asthmatic mice. material and methods eighteen female mice (c57) were randomly divided into 4 groups: the control group  the asthma model group challenged by ovalbumin (ova)  the rosiglitazone group  and the pparγ agonist rosiglitazone treatment group. the infiltration of peribronchial inflammatory cells as well as the proliferation and mucus secretion of bronchial epithelial goblet cells were observed by hematoxylin and eosin and periodic acid-schiff staining. western blots were employed to detect the expression levels of tlr2  pparγ  nuclear factor-kappa b (nf-kappab)  nlrp3  and asc [apoptosis-associated speck-like protein containing c-terminal caspase recruitment domain [card]). results the number of inflammatory cells and eosinophils  and the levels of ovas ige  interleukin-4 (il-4)  and il-13 were significantly higher in the c57 asthma group compared to the c57 control group and the treatment group (p<0.05). the infiltration of peribronchiolar inflammatory cells  wall thickening  goblet cell hyperplasia  and mucus secretion in the treatment group were all significantly decreased compared to those in the asthma group. pparg expression in the treatment group was significantly higher compared to the asthma group and the control group (p<0.05). the protein expression levels of tlr2  nf-kappab  nlrp3  and asc were significantly lower compared to the asthma group but were higher compared to the control group (p<0.05). conclusions pparγ rosiglitazone ameliorates airway inflammation by inhibiting nf-kappab expression in asthmatic mice  and further inhibits the activation of tlr2/nlrp3 inflammatory corpuscles.
5054,macrosomia and hyperinsulinaemic hypoglycaemia in patients with heterozygous mutations in the hnf4a gene,background  macrosomia is associated with considerable neonatal and maternal morbidity. factors that predict macrosomia are poorly understood. the increased rate of macrosomia in the offspring of pregnant women with diabetes and in congenital hyperinsulinaemia is mediated by increased foetal insulin secretion. we assessed the in utero and neonatal role of two key regulators of pancreatic insulin secretion by studying birthweight and the incidence of neonatal hypoglycaemia in patients with heterozygous mutations in the maturity-onset diabetes of the young (mody) genes hnf4a (encoding hnf-4α) and hnf1a/tcf1 (encoding hnf-1α)  and the effect of pancreatic deletion of hnf4a on foetal and neonatal insulin secretion in mice.
5056,exercise-linked fndc5/irisin rescues synaptic plasticity and memory defects in alzheimer’s models,defective brain hormonal signaling has been associated with alzheimer's disease (ad)  a disorder characterized by synapse and memory failure. irisin is an exercise-induced myokine released on cleavage of the membrane-bound precursor protein fibronectin type iii domain-containing protein 5 (fndc5)  also expressed in the hippocampus. here we show that fndc5/irisin levels are reduced in ad hippocampi and cerebrospinal fluid  and in experimental ad models. knockdown of brain fndc5/irisin impairs long-term potentiation and novel object recognition memory in mice. conversely  boosting brain levels of fndc5/irisin rescues synaptic plasticity and memory in ad mouse models. peripheral overexpression of fndc5/irisin rescues memory impairment  whereas blockade of either peripheral or brain fndc5/irisin attenuates the neuroprotective actions of physical exercise on synaptic plasticity and memory in ad mice. by showing that fndc5/irisin is an important mediator of the beneficial effects of exercise in ad models  our findings place fndc5/irisin as a novel agent capable of opposing synapse failure and memory impairment in ad.
5058,cdx2 inhibits the proliferation and tumor formation of colon cancer cells by suppressing wnt/β-catenin signaling via transactivation of gsk-3β and axin2 expression,caudal-related homeobox transcription factor 2 (cdx2)  an intestine-specific nuclear transcription factor  has been strongly implicated in the tumourigenesis of various human cancers. however  the functional role of cdx2 in the development and progression of colorectal cancer (crc) is not well known. in this study  cdx2 knockdown in colon cancer cells promoted cell proliferation in vitro  accelerated tumor formation in vivo  and induced a cell cycle transition from g0/g1 to s phase  whereas cdx2 overexpression inhibited cell proliferation. top/fop-flash reporter assay showed that cdx2 knockdown or cdx2 overexpression significantly increased or decreased wnt signaling activity. western blot assay showed that downstream targets of wnt signaling  including β-catenin  cyclin d1 and c-myc  were up-regulated or down-regulated in cdx2-knockdown or cdx2-overexpressing colon cancer cells. in addition  suppression of wnt signaling by xav-939 led to a marked suppression of the cell proliferation enhanced by cdx2 knockdown  whereas activation of this signaling by chir-99021 significantly enhanced the cell proliferation inhibited by cdx2 overexpression. dual-luciferase reporter and quantitative chromatin immunoprecipitation (qchip) assays further confirmed that cdx2 transcriptionally activates glycogen synthase kinase-3β (gsk-3β) and axis inhibition protein 2 (axin2) expression by directly binding to the promoter of gsk-3β and the upstream enhancer of axin2. in conclusion  these results indicated that cdx2 inhibits the proliferation and tumor formation of colon cancer cells by suppressing wnt/β-catenin signaling.
5060,the bone and joint decade 2000-2010.,the world health organisation has declared the period 2000 to 2010 the bone and joint decade. this is indeed timely and appropriate. hundreds of millions of people in the world today are beset with a host of disabilities caused by trauma  ageing and degeneration and other affections of the musculo-skeletal system. with the state of art of orthopaedic surgery and rheumatology  sufferers of bone and joint disabilities have benefited a great deal from advances in pharmacology  newer techniques of imaging  surgery and man-made materials to replace diseased or damaged bone and cartilage. however  man-made materials  being non-living  are subject to wear and tear and loosening in the host bone. as we advance into the bone and joint decade  further improvement in the treatment of bone and joint diseases lies in more basic cartilage and bone research. the human genome project has provided us with a better understanding of disease genes and the possibility of gene manipulation to prevent and treat specific diseases. cartilage cells culture and transplant are already a reality. tissue engineering  i.e. growing cells in three-dimensional substrates of collagen or synthetic biodegradable polymers  started in the 1980s  will in future be used to replace damaged bone and cartilage parts with living and bone and cartilaginous tissues  respectively. the first steps have been taken; more research needs to be done. and it is not unreasonable to expect a significant breakthrough in the treatment of bone and joint diseases at the end of this decade. ann acad med singapore 2002; 31:621-2
5062,impedance and interface properties of al/methyl-red/p-inp solar cell,an al/methyl-red/p-inp solar cell was fabricated via solution-processing method and was characterized by using current-voltage (i-v) and capacitance-voltage-frequency (c-v-f) measurements at room temperature. from dark i-v characteristics  the values of ideality factor and barrier height of the device were calculated as 1.11 ev and 2.02  respectively. it has been seen that the device exhibited a good photovoltaic behavior with a maximum open circuit voltage of 0.38 v and short-circuit current of 2.8 na under only 200 lx light intensity. the barrier height and acceptor carrier concentration values for the al/methyl-red/p-inp devices were extracted as 1.27 ev and from linear region of its characteristics  respectively. the difference between (i-v) and (c-v) for al/methyl-red/p-inp device was attributed the different nature of the i-v and c-v measurements. also  the energy distribution curves of the interface states and their time constants were obtained from the experimental conductance properties of the al/methyl-red/p-inp structure at room temperature. the interface state densities and their relaxation times of the device have ranged from and s at (1.11-) ev to and s at (0.79-) ev  respectively. it was seen that both the interface state density and the relaxation time of the interface states have decreased with bias voltage from experimental results.
5064,the mouse brain in stereotaxic coordinates," the mouse brain in stereotaxic coordinates" is the most widely used and cited atlas of the mouse brain in print. it provides researchers and students with both accurate stereotaxic coordinates for laboratory use  and detailed delineations and indexing of structures for reference. the accompanying dvd provides drawings of brains structures that can be used as templates for making figures for publication. the 3rd edition is both a major revision and an expansion of previous editions. delineations and photographs in the horizontal plane of section now complement the coronal and sagittal series  and all the tissue sections are now shown in high resolution digital color photography. the photographs of the sections and the intermediate sections are also provided on the accompanying dvd in high-resolution jp 2000 format. the delineations of structures have been revised  and naming conventions made consistent with paxinos and watson's "rat brain in stereotaxic coordinates  6th edition". the 3rd edition of this atlas is now in more practical 14"x11" format for convenient lab use. this edition is in full color throughout. it includes a cd of all plates and diagrams  as well as adobe illustrator files of the diagrams  and a variety of additional useful material. coronal and sagittal diagrams are completely reworked and updated. rhombomeric borders are included in sagittal figures  for the first time in mammals. microscopic plates are scanned with a new method in much higher quality.
5066,multiple imputation for nonresponse in surveys,multiple imputation for nonresponse in surveys is available in our book collection an online access to it is set as public so you can download it instantly. our book servers hosts in multiple locations  allowing you to get the most less latency time to download any of our books like this one. merely said  the multiple imputation for nonresponse in surveys is universally compatible with any devices to read.
5068,cycling quiescence in temozolomide resistant glioblastoma cells is partly explained by microrna-93 and -193-mediated decrease of cyclin d,glioblastoma multiforme (gbm) is a fatal malignancy of the central nervous system  commonly associated with chemoresistance. the alkylating agent temozolomide (tmz) is the front-line chemotherapeutic agent and has undergone intense studies on resistance. these studies reported on mismatch repair gene upregulation  abc-targeted drug efflux  and cell cycle alterations. the mechanism by which tmz induces cell cycle arrest has not been well-established. tmz-resistant gbm cells have been linked to microrna (mirna) and exosomes. a cell cycle mirna array identified distinct mirnas only in exosomes from tmz-resistant gbm cell lines and primary spheres. we narrowed the mirs to mir-93 and -193 and showed in computational analyses that they could target cyclin d1. since cyclin d1 is a major regulator of cell cycle progression  we performed cause-effect studies and showed a blunting effects of mir-93 and -193 in cyclin d1 expression. these two mirs also decreased cell cycling quiescence and induced resistance to tmz. taken together  our data provide a mechanism by which gbm cells can exhibit tmz-induced resistance through mirna targeting of cyclin d1. the data provide a number of therapeutic approaches to reverse chemoresistance at the mirna  exosomal and cell cycle points.
5070,children's exercise physiology,the reorganized and newly revised "children's exercise physiology  second edition  " presents the most up-to-date research  methodology  and approaches related to children's physiologic responses to exercise. the book examines not only the current major issues that separate children from adults  but also the underlying mechanisms of these differences. readers will learn what makes children different from adults physiologically--such as size  biochemical differences  neuromuscular differences  and lack of sexual and hormonal maturation--and the reasons for these differences. those involved with young athletes  disease management  and health promotion will gain valuable insight into the physiologic determinants of exercise performance. children's exercise physiology is a fast-moving field. in the eight years since the first edition of this book was published  much new information has surfaced. this streamlined new edition contains 13 instead of 15 chapters  an introduction  and updated features: -chapter objectives  discussion questions and research directions  and a glossary of terms promote learning.-a reorganized table of contents improves the flow from chapter to chapter.-a new final chapter covers the role of the central nervous system. also included is in-depth discussion of the determinants of aerobic fitness and vo2 kinetics and the significance of maximal aerobic power in children. with improved chapters on thermoregulation and metabolic and endocrinologic responses to exercise  you can be confident you're getting the latest information with "children's exercise physiology  second edition. "
5072,weight gain during pregnancy: reexamining the guidelines.,as women of childbearing age have become heavier  the trade-off between maternal and child health created by variation in gestational weight gain has become more difficult to reconcile. weight gain during pregnancy responds to the need for a reexamination of the 1990 institute of medicine guidelines for weight gain during pregnancy. it builds on the conceptual framework that underscored the 1990 weight gain guidelines and addresses the need to update them through a comprehensive review of the literature and independent analyses of existing databases. the book explores relationships between weight gain during pregnancy and a variety of factors (e.g.  the mother's weight and height before pregnancy) and places this in the context of the health of the infant and the mother  presenting specific  updated target ranges for weight gain during pregnancy and guidelines for proper measurement. new features of this book include a specific range of recommended gain for obese women. weight gain during pregnancy is intended to assist practitioners who care for women of childbearing age  policy makers  educators  researchers  and the pregnant women themselves to understand the role of gestational weight gain and to provide them with the tools needed to promote optimal pregnancy outcomes.
5074,excess risk of lymphomas  leukemia and myeloma in patients with rheumatoid arthritis,the incidence of malignant neoplasms among 11 483 male and 34 618 female individuals with rheumatoid arthritis was studied using two separate nationwide data registers covering the whole finnish population: the social insurance institution9s population data register  which includes information on medication for certain chronic diseases  and the finnish cancer registry  with data on all cancer patients diagnosed in finland. the follow-up comprised a total of 213 911 person years. the total incidence of all malignant neoplasms was higher in males and on the level expected in females. the expected number of cases of leukemia  lymphomas  hodgkin9s disease and myeloma in both sexes was 59·6 as compared with the 130 cases observed. this difference is statistically highly significant (p
5076,the endothelium: modulator of cardiovascular function,introduction. methods to study endothelium-dependent responses. endothelium-derived relaxing factor. physiological actions. other relaxing substances released by the endothelium. production of contracting agents. local regulation of endothelium-dependent responses. neurohumoral regulation. heterogeneity and chronic modulation. disease. therapeutic implications. references. subject index.
5078,alcohol  wine  and health,abstract background: for the past 20 years numerous epidemiological studies have correlated the consumption of alcohol and a variety of disease states: overall mortality  arteriosclerotic vascular diseases  hypertension  cancers  peptic ulcer  respiratory infections  gall stones  kidney stones  age-related macular degeneration  bone density  and cognitive function. methods: a review of these articles reveals that each of these studies has compared the outcome of individuals at various levels of alcohol consumption with that of abstainers. results: each analysis has identified a u-shaped or j-shaped curve of reduced relative risk for a given disease state compared with abstainers. a clear definition of consumption in moderation becomes evident: for men it should not exceed 2 to 4 drinks per day  and for women it should not exceed 1 to 2 drinks per day. conclusions: alcohol by itself has favorable effects on the level of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol  and inhibition of platelet aggregation. wine  particularly red wine  has high levels of phenolic compounds that favorably influence multiple biochemical systems  such as increased high-density lipoprotein cholesterol  antioxidant activity  decreased platelet aggregation and endothelial adhesion  suppression of cancer cell growth  and promotion of nitric oxide production.
5080,oncologists' perceptions of the effects of cancer patients' companions on physician-patient interactions,to determine physicians' perceptions of the effects that the companions of cancer patients have on physician-patient communication  semistructured interviews were conducted with 12 oncologists (6 medical  4 surgical  and 2 radiation) from a total population of 21 oncologists. the physicians estimated that threefourths of their patients brought companions with them to consultations and said that these consultations were more complex for the physician. the behaviors of the companions varied from domination to passive note taking  and the companions who were young professional men or older women who accompanied their husbands were the most assertive and asked the most questions. all possible coalitions were observed during medical visits. the physicians perceived that companions and patients often had different agendas and noted differences in the companions' behaviors according to their gender and whether they lived in rural or urban areas.
5082,ansichten von hausärzten zur versorgung von unheilbar kranken patienten am lebensende - ergebnisse einer befragung in niedersachsen,background: family doctors play an important role in the health care for terminal ill and patients. the current level of palliative care in germany is strongly criticised  however  empirical data is scare  particularly with respect to family doctors. methods: therefore  the attitudes of family doctors (sample: n= 257) in four representative regions in lower saxony were studied by using semi-structured telephone interviews. this was part of a health system researchers’ expert report. results: 71doctors could be interviewed (28%). on the average  they cared for four palliative patients with cancer diseases and eight palliative patients with other diseases than cancer at that time. many of the doctors were available for their patients around the clock  particularly in the final phase. the main area for improvement was considered to be the psychosocial support – rather than pain therapy  which is usually focussed. furthermore  a considerable openness for the establishment of new palliative care structures was shown. conclusion: family doctors are highly motivated for palliative care and open for improvements. in the process  the diversity of opinion among professions and disciplines about the current situation and the further development of palliative care should be respected and considered.
5084,assessment of older people: self-maintaining and instrumental activities of daily living.,the use of formal devices for assessing function is becoming standard in agencies serving the elderly. in the gerontological society's recent contract study on functional assessment (howell  1968)  a large assortment of rating scales  checklists  and other techniques in use in applied settings was easily assembled. the present state of the trade seems to be one in which each investigator or practitioner feels an inner compusion to make his own scale and to cry that other existent scales cannot possibly fit his own setting. the authors join this company in presenting two scales first standardized on their own population (lawton  1969). they take some comfort  however  in the fact that one scale  the physical self-maintenance scale (psms)  is largely a scale developed and used by other investigators (lowenthal  1964)  which was adapted for use in our own institution. the second of the scales  the instrumental activities of daily living scale (iadl)  taps a level of functioning heretofore inadequately represented in attempts to assess everyday functional competence. both of the scales have been tested further for their usefulness in a variety of types of institutions and other facilities serving community-resident older people. before describing in detail the behavior measured by these two scales  we shall briefly describe the schema of competence into which these behaviors fit (lawton  1969). human behavior is viewed as varying in the degree of complexity required for functioning in a variety of tasks. the lowest level is called life maintenance  followed by the successively more complex levels of func-
5086,mental health difficulties across childhood and mental health service use: findings from a longitudinal population-based study.,background over the past 20 years the prevalence of child and adolescent mental disorders in high-income countries has not changed despite increased investment in mental health services. insufficient contact with mental health services may be a contributing factor; however  it is not known what proportion of children have sufficient contact with health professionals to allow delivery of treatment meeting minimal clinical practice guidelines  or how long children experience symptoms prior to receiving treatment. aimsto investigate the level of mental healthcare received by australian children from age 4 years to 14 years. method trajectories of mental health symptoms were mapped using the strengths and difficulties questionnaire. health professional attendances and psychotropic medications dispensed were identified from linked national medicare benefits schedule (mbs) and pharmaceutical benefits scheme records. results four trajectories of mental health symptoms were identified (low  high-decreasing  moderate-increasing and high-increasing). most children with mental health symptoms had few mbs mental health attendances  and only a minority received care meeting study criteria for minimally adequate treatment. children in the high-increasing and moderate-increasing trajectories were more likely to access care  yet there was no evidence of improvement in symptoms. conclusions it is important that children and adolescents with mental health problems receive treatment that meets minimal practice guidelines. further research is needed to identify the quality of care currently provided to children with mental health difficulties and how clinicians can be best funded and supported to provide care meeting minimal practice guidelines. declaration of interestsnone.
5088,the women's interagency hiv study,the women's interagency hiv study comprises the largest u.s. cohort to date of human immunodeficiency virus (hiv)-seropositive women (n = 2 058) with a comparison cohort of seronegative women (n = 568). the methodology  training  and quality assurance activities employed are described. the study pop
5090,baseline cytology  human papillomavirus testing  and risk for cervical neoplasia: a 10-year cohort analysis,as more is learned about the development of cervical cancer  the value of annual pap smear screening for all women is being questioned. this study was conducted to investigate whether women at higher risk for the development of cervical cancer could be identified by testing for the presence of human papillomavirus (hpv) in the cervical smear. these women could be followed annually  and the interval between screening pap smears for women at lower risk could be increased. study participants were women enrolled in the kaiser permanente healthcare plan in portland  oregon  who underwent annual pap smear screening between april 1989  and november 1990. more than 20 000 women (20 810 of 23 702) had satisfactory cervical smears with sufficient samples for hpv testing  which was conducted using a polymerase chain reaction-based method with myo9/11 primers. most women (83.6%) had at least one follow-up smear during the study period; however  women with atypical squamous cells (asc) or worse had more smears than women with normal results (mean  4.4 vs. 3.3). follow-up was conducted more or less annually for a total period of 122 months. hpv results were not used in deciding patient management. ninety-six percent of the 20 810 baseline pap smears were diagnosed as negative (n = 20 156). thirteen percent of these patients tested positive for hpv. the baseline smears of 654 of the 20 810 women (3.1%) were classified as asc or worse. of these 654 smears  417 (63.8%) were positive for hpv. one hundred seventy-eight women had a cytologic diagnosis of a low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion or worse; of these  143 (80.3%) tested positive for hpv. during the 10 years of follow-up  171 patients developed cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin) 3 or cervical cancer. the baseline smear was normal in 112 of these women and asc or worse in 59 (34.5%). only half (49.2%) of the 58 patients diagnosed within the first 45 months of follow-up had an abnormal baseline smear. during this first 45 months  7.85% of the women whose initial pap test was at least asc were diagnosed with cin 3 or cancer. the cumulative incidence at 10 years of follow-up was 10.2%. sixty of the 171 women with cin 3 or cervical cancer had a negative baseline hpv test. of the 118 women who were diagnosed during the first 45 months of follow-up  89 (79.4%) were hpv positive initially. the cumulative incidence of cin 3 or cancer among the group with a positive baseline hpv test was 6.92% over 10 years but only 1.73% at 45 months. the risk of developing cin 3 or cancer remained elevated throughout the study in those women with a positive baseline hpv test. the predictive ability of the baseline pap smear diminished as the follow-up interval increased. fifteen percent of the patients (n = 3216) had a positive pap smear  a positive hpv test  or both at the initial examination. one hundred twenty-three (71.9%) were among the 171 women who developed cin 3 or cancer. eighty-six percent (102 of 123) of the patients who were diagnosed within the first 45 months were positive with at least one of the screening studies. the cumulative incidence over 45 months for women who had positive hpv testing and/or abnormal pap smear results was 4.54%. women with negative results in both screening tests had a cumulative risk of 0.16% for the same period. at 10 years the cumulative risk incidence for these two groups was 6.83% and 0.79%  respectively  yielding a negative predictive value of 99.1% for combined testing.
5092,behçet's disease associated with a lymphoproliferative disorder  mixed cryoglobulinemia  and an immune complex mediated vasculitis.,abstract a woman  now 59 has been followed for 13 years with several manifestations of behcet's disease. these were aphthous stomatitis  genital ulcers  uveitis causing blindness  recurrent erythema nodosum  and synovitis. in 1970 a poorly differentiated diffuse lymphocytic lymphoma appeared and was treated with radiotherapy. in 1976 she developed a mixed cryoglobulinemia and an immune complex mediated vasculitis manifested by purpura and neuropathy which improved on prednisone and chlorambucil therapy. the subsequent course of her lymphoproliferative disorder suggest that it was in fact benign.
5094,role of computerized physician order entry systems in facilitating medication errors,as compared with 103 (8.2 percent) in the control group; the kaplan-meier estimates of the likelihood of freedom from deep-vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism at 90 days were 94.1 percent (95 percent confidence interval  92.5 to 95.4 percent) and 90.6 percent (95 percent confidence interval  88.7 to 92.2 percent)  respectively (p 0.001). the computer alert reduced the risk of deep-vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism at 90 days by 41 percent (hazard ratio  0.59; 95 percent confidence interval  0.43 to 0.81; p 0.001). conclusions the institution of a computer-alert program increased physicians’ use of prophylaxis and markedly reduced the rates of deep-vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism among hospitalized patients at risk. editorial comment: most hospitals have adopted electronic systems to alert physicians of drug interactions or possible substitutions  as well as other measures designed to improve the quality of care and decrease expenses. this approach was taken one step further by these authors  who evaluated whether notifying physicians that their patients were at increased risk for venous thromboembolism would decrease the incidence of deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism. the premise was that simply notifying the physician would increase the use of appropriate prophylactic measures. major surgery (defined as anything requiring general anesthesia)  cancer and age greater than 75 years were included among the risk factors  each of which frequently applies to a urology population. in fact  more than 13% of the patients in the intervention group had a known diagnosis of a genitourinary cancer. the computer alert decreased the risk of deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism by 41%. there are 2 lessons urologists can learn from this study. first  many urology patients are at increased risk for venous thromboembolism and appropriate prophylaxis should be used. in addition  although computer alert systems may seem intrusive at times  clinicians can expect to see more and more of them if there is further documentation that they improve the quality of care.
5096,safety  pharmacokinetics and efficacy of imcgp100  a first-in-class soluble tcr-anticd3 bispecific t cell redirector with solid tumour activity: results from the fih study in melanoma.,3016background: t cell-based bispecific agents have shown activity in hematologic cancers  but solid tumor efficacy remains elusive. imcgp100 is a bispecific biologic comprising an affinityenhanced tcr specific for gp100 and an anti-cd3 scfv. in vitro  imcgp100 binds gp100+ melanoma cells causing redirection of cytotoxicity and induction of potent immune effects. methods: the phase i was conducted in hla-a2+ pts with advanced melanoma  using a 3+3 design to define the mtd. pts were treated with imcgp100 (iv) weekly (qw  arm 1) or daily (4qd3w  arm 2) to evaluate safety  pk and efficacy. the recommended phase 2 regimen (rp2d-qw) was defined. results: in the ph i dose escalation 31 pts received doses from 5ng/kg to 900ng/kg. in arm 1 dose-limiting toxicity of gr 3 or 4 hypotension was seen and associated with rapid trafficking of peripheral lymphocytes to skin and tumor. the mtd was determined to be 600ng/kg qw. imcgp100 has an approximately dose-proportional profile with a plasma t1/2 of 5-6 hrs at the rp2...
5098,variables affecting kinetics of minimal residual disease clearance in children with lymphoblastic leukaemia; results of the united kingdom medical research council (uk mrc) protocols all97  all97/99 and all2003.,we studied the influence of patient  leukaemia and treatment characteristics on the kinetics of minimal residual disease (mrd) clearance in children with lymphoblastic leukaemia treated using an intensive risk stratified approach. uk mrc protocol all97 (1997–1999)  and its amended version all 97/99 (1999–2002)  compared the efficacy and toxicity of dexamethasone (dex) with prednisolone (pred)  and 6-thioguanine (tg) with 6-mercaptopurine (mp) in a randomised fashion. the trial produced a 5 year event-free survival (efs) of 80%  with better systemic and central nervous system outcomes in dex compared with pred recipients but no difference between tg and mp recipients. several changes to the risk stratification and treatment regimens during the period of the trial provided an opportunity to determine their impact on mrd clearance. we compared this with clearance in those treated on the successor trial all 2003 (more intensive induction containing dex and pegylated asparaginase). the variables investigated for their potential influence on mrd status at the end of induction (eoi) were: nci risk; asparaginase intensity (erwinia asparaginase [erw] in all 97 and early part of all97/99 vs native or pegylated e. coli asparaginase [e. coli] in later part of all 97/99 and all2003); dex vs pred; and marrow response at day 8/15 of induction (slow early response [ser] >25% blasts vs rapid early response [rer] ⩽ 25% blasts). mrd was assessed using either a semi-quantitative sequence-specific pcr (all97) or real-time quantitative pcr (all99 and all 2003) of antigen receptor gene re-arrangements at eoi. mrd status was defined as neg if no mrd was detected by two markers sensitive to 10 −4 ; pos if > 10 −4   and positive outside quantitative range (poqr) if positive −4 . results were available from retrospective testing in 66 all97 and 76 all97/99 patients  and 204 all2003 patients monitored prospectively. there was no significant difference in the proportions of patients mrd neg  pos or poqr in steroid or nci sub-groups. significantly more erw asparaginase recipients were mrd pos compared with e.coli (p −4 at eoi have the same low risk of relapse as those who have undetectable mrd.
5100,detection of [ca2+]i changes in sub-plasma membrane micro domains in a single living cell by an optical fiber-based nanobiosensor,an optical fiber-based nanobiosensor  for advanced detection of [ca 2+ ]i (i.e. intracellular ca 2+ concentration) changes in sub-plasma membrane microdomains in a single living smooth muscle cell and a single living cardiomyocyte  was successfully prepared by coating silver and then immobilizing calcium green-1 dextran  a calcium ion sensitive dye  on the distal end of the nanoprobe. the constructed nanobiosensor was capable of detecting ultra-low and local intracellular calcium ion concentration within the nanomolar range  which is around the physiological level of free cytosolic calcium ion in a single living cell. the response time was less than milliseconds enabling the detection of transient elementary calcium ion signaling events associated with calcium ion microdomains. the effects of stimulants such as high potassium buffer solution and norepinephrine solution were also investigated. the resulting system could thus greatly facilitate the development of an advanced nano-diagnostic platform for in vivo and real-time sensing/diagnosing of [ca 2+ ]i at the single cell level.
5102,activation by ikkα of a second  evolutionary conserved  nf-κb signaling pathway,in mammals  the canonical nuclear factor κb (nf-κb) signaling pathway activated in response to infections is based on degradation of iκb inhibitors. this pathway depends on the iκb kinase (ikk)  which contains two catalytic subunits  ikkα and ikkβ. ikkβ is essential for inducible iκb phosphorylation and degradation  whereas ikkα is not. here we show that ikkα is required for b cell maturation  formation of secondary lymphoid organs  increased expression of certain nf-κb target genes  and processing of the nf-κb2 (p100) precursor. ikkα preferentially phosphorylates nf-κb2  and this activity requires its phosphorylation by upstream kinases  one of which may be nf-κb–inducing kinase (nik). ikkα is therefore a pivotal component of a second nf-κb activation pathway based on regulated nf-κb2 processing rather than iκb degradation.
5104,a forkhead-domain gene is mutated in a severe speech and language disorder,individuals affected with developmental disorders of speech and language have substantial difficulty acquiring expressive and/or receptive language in the absence of any profound sensory or neurological impairment and despite adequate intelligence and opportunity1. although studies of twins consistently indicate that a significant genetic component is involved1 2 3  most families segregating speech and language deficits show complex patterns of inheritance  and a gene that predisposes individuals to such disorders has not been identified. we have studied a unique three-generation pedigree  ke  in which a severe speech and language disorder is transmitted as an autosomal-dominant monogenic trait4. our previous work mapped the locus responsible  spch1  to a 5.6-cm interval of region 7q31 on chromosome 7 (ref. 5). we also identified an unrelated individual  cs  in whom speech and language impairment is associated with a chromosomal translocation involving the spch1 interval6. here we show that the gene foxp2  which encodes a putative transcription factor containing a polyglutamine tract and a forkhead dna-binding domain  is directly disrupted by the translocation breakpoint in cs. in addition  we identify a point mutation in affected members of the ke family that alters an invariant amino-acid residue in the forkhead domain. our findings suggest that foxp2 is involved in the developmental process that culminates in speech and language.
5106,innate immunity to a facultative intracellular bacterial pathogen.,the murine response to listeria monocytogenes has long been considered a paradigm of t-cell-mediated immunity. there is  however  substantial evidence that t-cell-deficient mice are capable of surviving a l. monocytogenes challenge. recently  advances have been made in our understanding of the cell biology and pathogenesis of infection.
5108,guide to yeast genetics and molecular biology,this volume and its companion  volume 350  are specifically designed to meet the needs of graduate students and postdoctoral students as well as researchers  by providing all the up-to-date methods necessary to study genes in yeast. procedures are included that enable newcomers to set up a yeast laboratory and to master basic manipulations. relevant background and reference information given for procedures can be used as a guide to developing protocols in a number of disciplines. specific topics addressed in this book include cytology  biochemistry  cell fractionation  and cell biology.
5110,reproductive physiology of marsupials,preface 1. historical introduction 2. breeding biology of marsupials by family 3. sexual differentiation and development 4. male anatomy and spermatogenesis 5. the female urogenital tract and oogenesis 6. ovarian function and control 7. pregnancy and parturition 8. lactation 9. neuroendocrine control of seasonal breeding 10. marsupials and the evolution of mammalian reproduction references index.
5112,investigating the intron recognition mechanism in eukaryotes,recent studies indicate that many introns  as well as the complex spliceosomal mechanism to remove them  were present early in eukaryotic evolution. this study examines intron and exon characteristics from annotations of whole genomes to investigate the intron recognition mechanism. exon definition uses the exon as the unit of recognition  placing length constraints on the exon but not on the intron (allowing it a greater range of lengths). in contrast  intron definition uses the intron itself as the unit of recognition and thus removes constraints on internal exon length forced by the use of an exon definition mechanism. thus  intron and exon lengths within a genome can reflect the constraints imposed by its splicing. this study shows that it is possible firstly to recover valid intron and exon information from genome annotation. we then compare internal intron and exon information from a range of eukaryotic genomes and investigate possible evolutionary length constraints on introns and exons and how they can impact on the intron recognition mechanism. results indicate that exon definition-based mechanisms may predominate in vertebrates although the exact system in fish is expected to show some differences with the better characterized system from mammals. we also raise the possibility that the last common ancestor of plants and animals contained some type of exon definition and that this mechanism was replaced in some genes and lineages by intron definition  possibly as a result of intron loss and/or intron shortening.
5114,the regulation of numbers of tropical oceanic birds,summary    the ways in which the numbers of tropical sea-birds might be limited are considered; it is argued that food is the only factor likely to be generally effective in limiting numbers  but it seems improbable that food shortage could exert a density-dependent control of the mortality of the birds outside the breeding season. wynne-edwards' hypothesis that colonies of sea-birds are able to keep their own numbers below the level at which food shortage would become acute  primarily by exerting control on the output of young  is rejected as unproven and improbable. it is suggested that colonies of tropical oceanic birds deplete the food in the waters round them  and that as the populations increase competition for food becomes more intense  and relatively fewer adults succeed in raising chicks. this would provide a density-dependent control of the output of young and could regulate the numbers of the birds. the peculiarities of long-lived sea-birds (e.g. clutches of one  long fledging periods  deferred maturity) which wynne-edwards suggests are adaptations evolved in order to lower the reproductive rate until it balances the mortality  apparently could not be evolved as such; they are more probably adaptations enabling the birds sometimes to raise single chicks in spite of competition for food that makes it impossible to raise more than one. it is considered that variation in the age of first breeding provides an important supplement to variation in reproductive success in regulating the numbers of long-lived tropical sea-birds. the possible applications of this hypothesis to sea-birds breeding in higher latitudes are briefly considered  as are its implications in relation to conservation and exploitation of populations of sea-birds.
5116,fenugreek (trigonella foenum-graecum): a review of health beneficial physiological effects,among the spices that are esoteric food adjuncts being used to enhance flavoring and color  fenugreek (trigonella foenum-graecum) also modifies the texture of food. this seed spice is also employed for medicinal purpose in many traditional systems as antibacterial  gastric stimulant  against anorexia  antidiabetic agent and as a galactogogue. in recent decades  several health beneficial physiological attributes of fenugreek seeds have been seen in animal studies as well as human trials. these include antidiabetic effect  hypocholesterolemic influence  antioxidant potency  digestive stimulant action  and hepatoprotective effect. among these beneficial physiological effects  the antidiabetic and hypocholesterolemic property of fenugreek  both of which are mainly attributable to the intrinsic dietary fiber constituent  have promising nutraceutical value. this article presents an overview of experimental evidence for the nutraceutical potential of fenugreek seeds.
5118,the self-incompatibility genes of brassica: expression and use in genetic ablation of floral tissues,introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 394 pollination and pollen tube growth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 395 interaction s between the m ale g ameto phyte and pistil . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 395 selfincom patibili ty systems: gameto phytic and s poro phyti c determin ation of pollen phenoty pe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 397 developmental s tudies of reproductive structures . . . . . . . . .. . . ... . . . . 398 tissues of the pistil with special reference to pollination functions 398 the male gametophyte . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 399 molecular analysis of self-incompatibility . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40 1 the s-m ultigene f amily o j brassica. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . 402 allelism at the s-lo cus and the slg gene""""""""""""""""""""""""" 402 the s-locus related (slr) genes 405 molecular complexity oj the s-locus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 407 expression of the slg gene in pis tils and anthers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 409 expression in cruc ifers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . 409 express ion in tr ansgen ic tob acco and the rel at ionship of g ameto phytic and s poro phyt ic incompatibilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 10 genetic interactions in self-incompatibility responses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 1 2 the analysis o j se lf-com patible lines . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 1 2 the an alysis o j transgenic pl ants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 1 3 genetic ablation o f floral tissues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 415 as a tool jor the study o j pl ant develo pmen t . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . 415 as a tool jar cro p im pro vement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . """ 416
5120,gastropathies in the lundehund,the mucin profiles of the gastric mucosa in lundehunds suffering from intestinal lymphangiectasia were examined and compared to the mucin profiles in control dogs from other breeds. a previous study performed on this material had shown that all examined lundehunds had gastritis and about 30% had gastric carcinoma. neutral and acid mucins were identified using the periodic acid-schiff (pas) and alcian blue (ph 2.5) periodic acid-schiff (ab-pas) methods. the acid mucins were divided into sialomucins and sulfomucins based on their reaction with high-iron diamine alcian blue  ph 2.5 (hid-ab). in lundehunds with chronic atrophic gastritis in the fundic and body regions the surface and foveolar epithelium showed a predominantly normal mucin profile although some lundehunds had a reduced mucin content. the mucous neck cells extended from below the gastric foveolae towards the muscularis mucosae. morphometric examination showed that the abnormal presence of mucous neck cells occupied 41% of the height of the gastric mucosa in lundehunds compared to only 19% in the control dogs (p<0.05). of the four lundehunds with gastric carcinoma  two possessed neoplastic cells that contained minimal or no mucins. the amount and type of mucin in the neoplastic cells of the remaining two lundehunds varied both between individuals and within a neoplasm. this study shows that the abnormal presence of mucous neck cells and the associated pseudopyloric metaplasia comprised the predominant changes in the gastric mucin profiles of lundehunds.
5122,molecular mechanisms of invadopodium formation: the role of the n-wasp–arp2/3 complex pathway and cofilin,invadopodia are actin-rich membrane protrusions with a matrix degradation activity formed by invasive cancer cells. we have studied the molecular mechanisms of invadopodium formation in metastatic carcinoma cells. epidermal growth factor (egf) receptor kinase inhibitors blocked invadopodium formation in the presence of serum  and egf stimulation of serum-starved cells induced invadopodium formation. rna interference and dominant-negative mutant expression analyses revealed that neural wasp (n-wasp)  arp2/3 complex  and their upstream regulators  nck1  cdc42  and wip  are necessary for invadopodium formation. time-lapse analysis revealed that invadopodia are formed de novo at the cell periphery and their lifetime varies from minutes to several hours. invadopodia with short lifetimes are motile  whereas long-lived invadopodia tend to be stationary. interestingly  suppression of cofilin expression by rna interference inhibited the formation of long-lived invadopodia  resulting in formation of only short-lived invadopodia with less matrix degradation activity. these results indicate that egf receptor signaling regulates invadopodium formation through the n-wasp–arp2/3 pathway and cofilin is necessary for the stabilization and maturation of invadopodia.
5124,construction of an antisense cyp86mf gene plasmid vector and production of a male-sterile chinese cabbage transformant by the pollen-tube method,summarya plant expression vector pbia9-amf containing an antisense fragment of the cyp86mf gene and the tapetum-specific a9 promoter was constructed. plasmid vectors were introduced by floral-dipping and pollen-tube transformation methods to chinese cabbage pak-choi (brassica campestris ssp. chinensis (l.) makino var. communis tsen et lee  syn. b. rapa ssp. chinensis (l.) makino var. communis tsen et lee) and flowering chinese cabbage (b. campestris ssp. chinensis (l.) makino var. parachinensis (bailey) tsen et lee). results showed that kanr seedlings could be obtained by the pollen-tube method through germination tests of t1 progeny seeds  but not by the floral-dipping method. one of the two kanr seedlings proved that the antisense fragment of the cyp86mf gene was integrated into the chinese cabbage genome by pcr amplification and southern blotting. northern hybridization indicated that the cyp86mf gene  under the a9 promoter  was inhibited in the transformant  and self-infertility was found in the trans...
5126,characterization and culture of human embryonic stem cells,objective to explore the in vitro maintenance and characterization of human embryonic stem cells(hescs).methods hescs were cultured on feeder layer with es culture medium which consists of 20% knockout serum replacement knockout dmem and 10 ng/ml bfgf.undifferentiated status of hescs was identified by cell morphology and the expressions of cell surface marker ssea-1 ssea-3 and tra-1-60.g banding technique was employed for cell karyotype analysis. pluropotency of cells were analyzed via in vitro embyoid body(eb) formation and in vivo terotoma formation. results most of cells showed undifferentiated properties in cell morphology and normal karyotype throughout extended culture periods. they maintained undifferentiated status with positive immunoreactivity to ssea-3 ssea-4 and tra-1-60.in vitro eb formation and in vivo teratoma formation demonstrated the pluripotency of human es cells. conclusion the fundamental requirement to hescs for research and clinical application were their undifferentiated status and pluropotency in culture. our result demonstrated their potential for these purposes.
5128,mitotic chromosomes fold by condensin-dependent helical winding of chromatin loop arrays,during mitosis  chromosomes fold into compacted rod shaped structures. we combined imaging and hi-c of synchronous dt40 cell cultures with polymer simulations to determine how interphase chromosomes are converted into compressed arrays of loops characteristic of mitotic chromosomes. we found that the interphase organization is disassembled within minutes of prophase entry and by late prophase chromosomes are already folded as arrays of consecutive loops. during prometaphase  this array reorganizes to form a helical arrangement of nested loops. polymer simulations reveal that hi-c data are inconsistent with solenoidal coiling of the entire chromatid  but instead suggest a centrally located helically twisted axis from which consecutive loops emanate as in a spiral staircase. chromosomes subsequently shorten through progressive helical winding  with the numbers of loops per turn increasing so that the size of a helical turn grows from around 3 mb (~40 loops) to ~12 mb (~150 loops) in fully condensed metaphase chromosomes. condensin is essential to disassemble the interphase chromatin conformation. analysis of mutants revealed differing roles for condensin i and ii during these processes. either condensin can mediate formation of loop arrays. however  condensin ii was required for helical winding during prometaphase  whereas condensin i modulated the size and arrangement of loops inside the helical turns. these observations identify a mitotic chromosome morphogenesis pathway in which folding of linear loop arrays produces long thin chromosomes during prophase that then shorten by progressive growth of loops and helical winding during prometaphase.
5130,improved au/zn/au ohmic contacts for p-type inp,in this work  an innovated si3n4 as an out-diffusion barrier layer to au/zn/au contact system for p-type inp has been proposed. before the contacts were annealed  si3n4 layer was deposited on the au(200å)/zn(700å)/au(200å)  then the si3n4 was removed by hf and a 2000a layer of pure gold was deposited to facilitate wire bonding. the specific contact resistance dropped to a minimum value of 6×10-7 ω • cm2 (for an acceptor concentration of about 3×1018 cm-3) and the contact became perfectly ohmic. besides  si3n4 layer is an excellent passivation layer and antireflection coating in inp/ingaas/inp (p-i-n) photodiodes.
5132,process analysis and economic evaluation for poly(3-hydroxybutyrate) production by fermentation,abstract several processes for the production and recovery of poly(3-hydroxybutyrate) (phb) by alcaligenes eutrophus  alcaligenes latus  methylobacterium organophilum  and recombinant escherichia coli were designed based on the previously reported data and analyzed by computer-aided bioprocess design. phb productivity  content  and yield significantly affected the final price of phb. for the annual production of 2 850 tonnes of purified phb  the process employing a. eutrophus with the recovery method of surfactant-hypochlorite digestion resulted in lowest price of phb  $ 5.58/kg. as the production scale increased to one million tonnes per year  the price of phb dropped to $ 4.75/kg. the cost of carbon substrate significantly affected the overall economics in large production scale. therefore  the production cost can be considerably lowered when agricultural wastes  such as whey and molasses  are used.
5134,combined sampler robot and high-performance liquid chromatography: a fully automated system for biological small-angle x-ray scattering experiments at the synchrotron soleil swing beamline,small-angle x-ray scattering for macromolecules in solution is now widely used in structural biology to complement high-resolution structure determination obtained by x-ray crystallography or nmr. in the context of third-generation synchrotron sources  this increasing interest leads to developments in sample environments and automation. the presence of an online purification system is justified by the need for sample monodispersity. a combined system including an auto-sampler robot and online high-performance liquid chromatography (hplc) has been developed and optimized at the swing beamline of synchrotron soleil (gif-sur-yvette  france). in the sample changer mode  a few microlitres of sample can be injected between two air bubbles and circulated at a controlled speed of typically 40 µl min−1. a maximum of 14 samples per hour could be measured in this mode by remote controlling the sample injections. in the hplc mode  an initially polydisperse sample can be separated into each of its components before immediate data acquisition. the sample cell is thermostated  and offers a visualization control and online uv–vis absorption monitoring.
5136,development of a specific monoclonal antibody assay and a rapid testing strip for the detection of apramycin residues in food samples,abstracta specific monoclonal antibody (mab) against apramycin (ap) was produced and used to develop an indirect competitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (idcelisa) and a rapid testing strip for the detection of ap residues in foods. mab exhibited negligible cross-reactivity with other aminoglycosides. under optimized conditions in 0.01 m pbs  the half maximum inhibitory concentration (ic50) of mab was 0.41 ng/ml with a limit of detection (lod) of 0.15 ng/ml. the elisa results were obtained within 90 min. the mean recoveries from all the spiked food samples were within the range of 79.02–105.49%  with coefficients of variation in the range of 2.21–11.4%. the strip test results obtained within 5 min had visual lods in the range 2.5–5 µg/kg (ng/ml) for all food samples tested. therefore  the developed strip test represents a fast and convenient detection method of ap residues in foods.
5138,training toddlers seated on mobile robots to drive indoors amidst obstacles,the goal of this research is to train children seated on mobile robots to purposefully and safely drive indoors. our previous studies show that in about six weeks of training  infants can learn to drive directly to a goal using conventional joysticks. however  they are unable to acquire the advanced skill to avoid obstacles while driving. this limits mobility impaired children from exploring their home environment safely  which in turn impacts their cognitive and social developments in the important early years. in this paper  we describe results where toddlers are trained to drive a robot within an obstacle course. using algorithms based on artificial potential fields to avoid obstacles  we create force field on the joystick that trains them to navigate while avoiding obstacles. in this ‘assist-as-needed’ approach  if the child steers the mobile robot outside a force tunnel centered around the desired direction  the driver experiences a bias force on the hand. the results suggest that force-feedback joystick results in faster learning than with a conventional joystick.
5140,innovative beneficial reuse of reverse osmosis concentrate using bipolar membrane electrodialysis and electrochlorination processes,reverse osmosis (ro) is a widely used and rapidly growing desalination technology. a major disadvantage of this process is that the concentrate from the ro process  which could be as much as 25% of the feed stream  represents a polluting stream. this waste stream could pose a significant challenge to the implementation of this process  particularly for inland communities which do not have the option of ocean disposal. an excellent environmentally benign approach to disposal could be beneficial reuse of the waste stream. this study presents two innovative beneficial reuse strategies for ro concentrate produced by an integrated membrane system (ims) from a wastewater reclamation facility. the technologies evaluated in this study included bipolar membrane electrodialysis (bmed) for conversion of ro concentrate into mixed acid and mixed base streams  and electrochlorination (ec) for onsite chlorine generation. bench-scale studies conducted with bmed demonstrated that ro concentrate could be desalted while producing mixed acids and mixed bases with concentrations as high as 0.2n. similarly  the ec process was capable of producing a 0.6% hypochlorite solution from ro concentrate. the acids and bases as well as the hypochlorite produced could be directly applied to the ro process as well as upstream pre-treatment processes. a preliminary economic evaluation of the viability of these two approaches was conducted by conducting rough order of magnitude cost estimates based on the bench-scale performance of these processes on ro concentrate. a comparison of the overall costs of an integrated membrane system utilizing these innovative reuse strategies with conventional disposal options and thermal zero liquid discharge treatment is presented. this comparison indicates that a reuse approach might be economically viable for inland wastewater reuse facilities that utilize ro membranes and have limited options for concentrate disposal.
5142,physicians' initial management of acute low back pain versus evidence-based guidelines. influence of sciatica.,background little information is available on physician characteristics and patient presentations that may influence compliance with evidence-based guidelines for acute low back pain. objective to assess whether physicians' management decisions are consistent with the agency for health research quality's guideline and whether responses varied with the presentation of sciatica or by physician characteristics. design cross-sectional study using a mailed survey. participants participants were randomly selected from internal medicine  family practice  general practice  emergency medicine  and occupational medicine specialties. measurements a questionnaire asked for recommendations for 2 case scenarios  representing patients without and with sciatica  respectively. results seven hundred and twenty surveys were completed (response rate=25%). in cases 1 (without sciatica) and 2 (with sciatica)  26.9% and 4.3% of physicians fully complied with the guideline  respectively. for each year in practice  the odds of guideline noncompliance increased 1.03 times (95% confidence interval [ci]=1.01 to 1.05) for case 1. with occupational medicine as the referent specialty  general practice had the greatest odds of noncompliance (3.60  95% ci=1.75 to 7.40) in case 1  followed by internal medicine and emergency medicine. results for case 2 reflected the influence of sciatica with internal medicine having substantially higher odds (vs case 1) and the greatest odds of noncompliance of any specialty (6.93  95% ci=1.47 to 32.78)  followed by family practice and emergency medicine. conclusions a majority of primary care physicians continue to be noncompliant with evidence-based back pain guidelines. sciatica dramatically influenced clinical decision-making  increasing the extent of noncompliance  particularly for internal medicine and family practice. physicians' misunderstanding of sciatica's natural history and belief that more intensive initial management is indicated may be factors underlying the observed influence of sciatica.
5144,how to calculate sample size in animal studies,researcher must calculate the sample size before starting of any animal study. it should be adequate enough to detect a small significant difference between the groups. small sample size is not only responsible for the insignificant result but also for the less power of the study. calculation of sample size involves complex statistics but it can be simplified to help the researchers who are not from statistical background.
5146,over 30% efficient ingap/gaas tandem solar cells,a two-terminal monolithic ingap/gaas tandem solar cell with a new efficiency record of 30.28% is realized with a practical large area of 4 cm2 under one-sun air-mass 1.5 global illumination. we report improvements of the tandem cell performance by introducing a double-hetero (hereafter dh) structure ingap tunnel junction  in which the ingap layers are surrounded by high band gap alinp barriers. the dh structure by alinp barriers increase the peak current of ingap tunnel junction. the alinp barrier directly below the ingap top cell  which takes the part of a back surface field (hereafter bsf) layer  is found to be considerably effective in reflecting minority carriers in the top cell. the alinp bsf layer does not only form a high potential barrier but also prevents the diffusion of zinc from a high doped tunnel junction toward the top cell during epitaxial growth. furthermore  an ingap tunnel junction reduces the absorption loss  which exists in a gaas tunnel junction  and increases the photogenerated curr...
5148,disaster management and community planning  and public participation: how to achieve sustainable hazard mitigation,the paper offers first a brief historical overview of disaster management planning. second  it reviews australian and american research findings and show that they urge the field of disaster management to shift its focus from response and recovery to sustainable hazard mitigation. it is argued that in order for this shift to occur  it is necessary to integrate disaster management and community planning. current practice seldom reflects such a synthesis  and this is one of the reasons why hazard awareness is absent from local decision-making processes. third  it is asserted that if mitigative strategies are to be successfully implemented  then the disaster management process must incorporate public participation at the local decision-making level. the paper concludes with a case study of california's portola valley  which demonstrates that when public participation is integrated into disaster management planning and community planning  the result is sustainable hazard mitigation.
5150,prevention of radiographic-contrast-agent-induced reductions in renal function by acetylcysteine.,background radiographic contrast agents can cause a reduction in renal function that may be due to reactive oxygen species. whether the reduction can be prevented by the administration of antioxidants is unknown. methods we prospectively studied 83 patients with chronic renal insufficiency (mean [+/-sd] serum creatinine concentration  2.4+/-1.3 mg per deciliter [216+/-116 micromol per liter]) who were undergoing computed tomography with a nonionic  low-osmolality contrast agent. patients were randomly assigned either to receive the antioxidant acetylcysteine (600 mg orally twice daily) and 0.45 percent saline intravenously  before and after administration of the contrast agent  or to receive placebo and saline. results ten of the 83 patients (12 percent) had an increase of at least 0.5 mg per deciliter (44 micromol per liter) in the serum creatinine concentration 48 hours after administration of the contrast agent: 1 of the 41 patients in the acetylcysteine group (2 percent) and 9 of the 42 patients in the control group (21 percent; p=0.01; relative risk  0.1; 95 percent confidence interval  0.02 to 0.9). in the acetylcysteine group  the mean serum creatinine concentration decreased significantly (p<0.001)  from 2.5+/-1.3 to 2.1+/-1.3 mg per deciliter (220+/-118 to 186+/-112 micromol per liter) 48 hours after the administration of the contrast medium  whereas in the control group  the mean serum creatinine concentration increased nonsignificantly (p=0.18)  from 2.4+/-1.3 to 2.6+/-1.5 mg per deciliter (212+/-114 to 226+/-133 micromol per liter) (p<0.001 for the comparison between groups). conclusions prophylactic oral administration of the antioxidant acetylcysteine  along with hydration  prevents the reduction in renal function induced by contrast agents in patients with chronic renal insufficiency.
5152,tammarniit (mistakes): inuit relocation in the eastern arctic  1939-63,preface introduction 1. are inuit indians?: relief  jurisdiction  and government responsibility 2. social welfare and social crisis in the eastern arctic 3. planning for relocation in the eastern arctic 4. recolonizing the arctic islands: the 1953 relocations to resolute bay and craig harbour 5. the ennadai lake relocations  1950-60 6. the garry lake famine 7. the whale cove relocation 8. relocation and responsibility  1955-63 notes bibliography index
5154,a psychometric evaluation of the beck depression inventory–ii.,this article provides psychometric information on the second edition of the beck depression inventory (bdi-ii; a. t. beck  r. a. steer  & g. k. brown  1996)  with respect to internal consistency  factorial validity  and gender differences. both measures demonstrated high internal reliability in the full student sample. significant differences between the mean bdi and bdi-ii scores necessitated the development of new cutoffs for analogue research on the bdi-ii. results from exploratory and confirmatory factor analyses indicated that a 2-factor solution optimally summarized the data for both versions of the inventory and accounted for a cumulative 41% and 46% of the common variance in bdi and bdi-ii responses  respectively. these factor solutions were reliably cross-validated  although the importance of each factor varied by gender. the authors conclude that the bdi-ii is a stronger instrument than the bdi in terms of its factor structure.
5156,self-report and tests of memory aging,memory complaints have not correlated well with tests of memory. however  given self-report questions  which tap processes of everyday remembering. sixty volunteers aged 21-84 years adequately rated their memory competence. categorized into four memory processes  self-report and six tests of verbal  faces  story and nonverbal auditory  visual  and tactual memory  were canonically correlated (r = 0.67) and both sets of measures declined with age in parallel. thc old were more accurate than the young in their ratings but by no means on all tests and expectation to perform poorly seemed to have influenced some performances.
5158,a generic measure of relationship satisfaction.,the variety of interpersonal relationships in contemporary society necessitates the development of brief  reliable measures of satisfaction that are applicable to many types of close relationships. this article describes the development of such a measure. in study i  the 7-item relationship assessment scale (ras) was administered to 125 subjects who reported themselves to be "in love. " analyses revealed a unifactorial scale structure  substantial factor loadings  and moderate intercorrelations among the items. the scale correlated significantly with measures of love  sexual attitudes  self-disclosure  commitment  and investment in a relationship. in study ii  the scale was administered to 57 couples in ongoing relationships. analyses supported a single factor  alpha reliability of .86  and correlations with relevant relationship measures. the scale correlated .80 with a longer criterion measure  the dyadic adjustment scale (spanier  1976)  and both scales were effective (with a subsample) in discriminating couples who stayed together from couples who broke up. the ras is a brief  psychometrically sound  generic measure of relationship satisfaction.
5160,the assumption of caregiving: grandmothers raising the children of the crack cocaine epidemic:,in this article  selected findings are presented from a study of the experiences of 71 african american women who have become the sole caregivers for at least one grandchild or great-grandchild as a result of the involvement of the parent in use of crack cocaine. despite the unique circumstances of each situation  three patterns of the assumption of caregiving emerged from analysis of the intensive interviews and participant observation: sudden assumption  negotiated assumption  and inevitable assumption of the permanent caregiver role. each pattern is described along six dimensions: forewarning  initiation  the trigger event  the caregiver's goal  her assumed trajectory of the caregiving period  and her perceived influence on her own destiny. these accounts provide important information for those who work with women  children  and families  as well as unique insight into the consequences of the crack cocaine epidemic.
5162,transnationalism and identity,transnationalism and identity are concepts that inherently call for juxtaposition. this is so because many peoples' transnational networks of exchange and participation are grounded upon some perception of common identity; conversely  the identities of numerous individuals and groups of people are negotiated within social worlds that span more than one place. in this introductory article  the transnational perspective on migration studies is first discussed  followed by some critiques and outstanding questions. the final section summarises points raised by the contributing authors of the main articles in this themed issue of jems  especially with regard to various ways transnational settings and dynamics affect the construction  negotiation and reproduction of identities.
5164,wine and health: faraway concepts?,purpose – the purpose of this paper is to explore consumers’ perceptions and beliefs in the health benefits of wine and the relationship with wine consumption patterns. design/methodology/approach – in store face-to-face survey results from 402 wine consumers were elaborated with two-step cluster analysis. anova confirmed differences among groups. groups were profiled by a χ2 significance analysis when adequate. a multivariate binary logistic regression estimated wine consumption influence on healthiness perceptions. findings – consumers converge into four groups: two health-oriented – optimistic and medical; two non-health-oriented – unintentional drinker and unconvinced. groups are not significantly differentiated in socio-economic terms. wine consumption behaviour influences health orientation  specifically for monthly and wine drinkers  vs weekly and other alcohol drinkers. health-oriented consumers favourably welcome and are willing to pay more for health-enhancing wine. consumers believe that wine c...
5166,best response dynamics and socially stable strategies,abstract an evolutionarily stable strategy (maynard smith and price  nature (london) 246 (1973)  15–18) is a strategy which is robust against a tiny invasion of mutants. best response dynamics is a dynamic process in which the frequency of a strategy increases only if it is a best response to the present strategy distribution. gilboa and matsui ( econometrica 59 (1991)  859–867) proposed a stability concept directly derived from this dynamic process. modifying the above two stability concepts  this paper shows the equivalence between the static concept and the dynamic one. their set-valued versions always exist. examples are given to see their usefulness in analyzing forward induction and preplay communication.
5168,urban spatial development in the land policy reform era: evidence from beijing,this paper examines the characteristics of urban spatial development in beijing and identifies the extent to which these characteristics can be attributed to the emerging land market in beijing as well as the impact of land policy reform. based on the observations of land use rights granted from 1993 to the first half of 2000 in the built-up area of beijing  empirical analyses illustrate that both land prices and land development density decrease with distance to the city core. it further provides evidence that the slope of the land rent curve also depends on land use types. this leads to the conclusion that the land market influences land development decisions and urban form. finally  it shows that the slope of the land rent curve and the elasticity of land-capital substitution change over time. the former declines  as expected. this is because beijing's massive investments in transport have reduced transport costs  which in turn has shifted the land rent curve. the latter rises  implying the price effect on land development density. both changesâ€”in land rent function and the elasticity of land-capital substitution-point to the maturing of the beijing land market. it should be mentioned that there are enormous land developments outside the land market (land development on administratively allocated land). these developments can significantly distort urban land use patterns portrayed through this study.
5170,citizen participation and citizen evaluation in disaster recovery,in april 1997  grand forks  north dakota  and east grand forks  minnesota  experienced a disastrous flood. both cities have been textbook examples of success according to the federal emergency management agency. they have an updated infrastructure  paid for largely by the federal government. their downtowns are on the road to recovery with new construction and businesses. the paths of the two cities have diverged in the social and political aftermath of the flood. east grand forks  following consultant suggestions  instituted extensive citizen participation initiatives. east grand forks has experienced political stability and citizen satisfaction. grand forks relied primarily on bureaucratic guidance to react to the disaster. grand forks has experienced changes in government structure  turnover of elected and appointed officials  and much less positive citizen evaluation. this study examines the effect of perceptions of citizen participation on the citizens’ evaluation of the success of the recovery.
5172,drink choice: factors influencing the intention to drink wine,this paper explores the reasons why consumers choose wine over other alcoholic beverages  with a focus upon the beliefs held by consumers towards the behaviour of wine drinking. the research findings show that attitudes are somewhat more predictive of the intention to drink wine than perceived social pressure. nevertheless  both attitudinal and normative elements are required to adequately explain wine consumption. despite the fact that the issue of health figured prominently amongst the salient beliefs identified in the qualitative phase of the research  the subsequent quantitative research found that drinking wine because of its purported health benefits was not a significant attitudinal or behavioural factor. drinking wine because it provides ‘a variety of tastes and flavours’ and because it ‘goes well with food’ was found to be significantly more important. the results suggest that efforts to actively promote awareness of the health benefits of wine drinking may have limited value.
5174,metabolic modifiers as performance-enhancing technologies for livestock production,with the current and predicted increase in world population  growing global demand and consumption of food will result in increasing competition for land  water  and energy. in turn  this will severely affect our ability to produce food as will the urgent requirement to reduce the impact of food systems on the environment (godfray et al.  2010). globalization has boosted trade in livestock inputs and products and resulted in industry growth  and concurrently livestock production has undergone a complex process of technical and geographical change (gerber et al.  2007). this has resulted in a challenge to livestock producers; growing demand for their produce with a dwindling supply of resources  with the only solution being a significant increase in efficiency. also  as incomes increase in the burgeoning economies  so does the demand for high-quality animal proteins such as meat  milk  and eggs; thus the food and agriculture organization of the united nations suggests that food requirements will increase by 70% by 2050 (anonymous  2009). the recent success in developed and emerging technologies suggests that the animal industries are well placed to prosper through these new challenges. to ensure these technologies—such as metabolic modifiers including somatotropin  immunization against gonadotropin-releasing factor  and orally active dietary additives like ractopamine  zilpaterol  cysteamine  chromium  betaine  and dietary neuroleptics—can be effectively utilized throughout the animal industries  further emphasis is required on their acceptance and development. as a result of these technological advancements  producers have benefited because of improved production efficiencies while meat packers have improved processing efficiencies because of increased lean meat yield. ostensibly  the consumer has also benefited because meat is leaner and less expensive to purchase. however  there have been some concerns that the focus on increasing production efficiency and lean meat yield has been to the detriment of meat quality (dunshea et al.  2005). it is also interesting that at a time of apparently greater need for these technologies  there are external influences such as market differentiation and trade barriers as well as consumer resistance that challenge the use of technologies. a tenet of this article is that if we are to meet the increased global demand for animal protein  then we must continue to develop and adopt technologies to improve livestock efficiency  but we must be cognizant of the potential barriers affecting acceptance.
5176,comparisons between different polychemotherapy regimens for early breast cancer: meta-analyses of long-term outcome among 100 000 women in 123 randomised trials.,background moderate differences in efficacy between adjuvant chemotherapy regimens for breast cancer are plausible  and could affect treatment choices. we sought any such differences. methods we undertook individual-patient-data meta-analyses of the randomised trials comparing: any taxane-plus-anthracycline-based regimen versus the same  or more  non-taxane chemotherapy (n=44 000); one anthracycline-based regimen versus another (n=7000) or versus cyclophosphamide  methotrexate  and fluorouracil (cmf; n=18 000); and polychemotherapy versus no chemotherapy (n=32 000). the scheduled dosages of these three drugs and of the anthracyclines doxorubicin (a) and epirubicin (e) were used to define standard cmf  standard 4ac  and caf and cef. log-rank breast cancer mortality rate ratios (rrs) are reported. findings in trials adding four separate cycles of a taxane to a fixed anthracycline-based control regimen  extending treatment duration  breast cancer mortality was reduced (rr 0·86  se 0·04  two-sided significance [2p]=0·0005). in trials with four such extra cycles of a taxane counterbalanced in controls by extra cycles of other cytotoxic drugs  roughly doubling non-taxane dosage  there was no significant difference (rr 0·94  se 0·06  2p=0·33). trials with cmf-treated controls showed that standard 4ac and standard cmf were equivalent (rr 0·98  se 0·05  2p=0·67)  but that anthracycline-based regimens with substantially higher cumulative dosage than standard 4ac (eg  caf or cef) were superior to standard cmf (rr 0·78  se 0·06  2p=0·0004). trials versus no chemotherapy also suggested greater mortality reductions with caf (rr 0·64  se 0·09  2p<0·0001) than with standard 4ac (rr 0·78  se 0·09  2p=0·01) or standard cmf (rr 0·76  se 0·05  2p<0·0001). in all meta-analyses involving taxane-based or anthracycline-based regimens  proportional risk reductions were little affected by age  nodal status  tumour diameter or differentiation (moderate or poor; few were well differentiated)  oestrogen receptor status  or tamoxifen use. hence  largely independently of age (up to at least 70 years) or the tumour characteristics currently available to us for the patients selected to be in these trials  some taxane-plus-anthracycline-based or higher-cumulative-dosage anthracycline-based regimens (not requiring stem cells) reduced breast cancer mortality by  on average  about one-third. 10-year overall mortality differences paralleled breast cancer mortality differences  despite taxane  anthracycline  and other toxicities. interpretation 10-year gains from a one-third breast cancer mortality reduction depend on absolute risks without chemotherapy (which  for oestrogen-receptor-positive disease  are the risks remaining with appropriate endocrine therapy). low absolute risk implies low absolute benefit  but information was lacking about tumour gene expression markers or quantitative immunohistochemistry that might help to predict risk  chemosensitivity  or both. funding cancer research uk; british heart foundation; uk medical research council.
5178,body-mass index and cause-specific mortality in 900 000 adults: collaborative analyses of 57 prospective studies.,background the main associations of body-mass index (bmi) with overall and cause-specific mortality can best be assessed by long-term prospective follow-up of large numbers of people. the prospective studies collaboration aimed to investigate these associations by sharing data from many studies. methods collaborative analyses were undertaken of baseline bmi versus mortality in 57 prospective studies with 894 576 participants  mostly in western europe and north america (61% [n=541 452] male  mean recruitment age 46 [sd 11] years  median recruitment year 1979 [iqr 1975-85]  mean bmi 25 [sd 4] kg/m(2)). the analyses were adjusted for age  sex  smoking status  and study. to limit reverse causality  the first 5 years of follow-up were excluded  leaving 66 552 deaths of known cause during a mean of 8 (sd 6) further years of follow-up (mean age at death 67 [sd 10] years): 30 416 vascular; 2070 diabetic  renal or hepatic; 22 592 neoplastic; 3770 respiratory; 7704 other. findings in both sexes  mortality was lowest at about 22.5-25 kg/m(2). above this range  positive associations were recorded for several specific causes and inverse associations for none  the absolute excess risks for higher bmi and smoking were roughly additive  and each 5 kg/m(2) higher bmi was on average associated with about 30% higher overall mortality (hazard ratio per 5 kg/m(2) [hr] 1.29 [95% ci 1.27-1.32]): 40% for vascular mortality (hr 1.41 [1.37-1.45]); 60-120% for diabetic  renal  and hepatic mortality (hrs 2.16 [1.89-2.46]  1.59 [1.27-1.99]  and 1.82 [1.59-2.09]  respectively); 10% for neoplastic mortality (hr 1.10 [1.06-1.15]); and 20% for respiratory and for all other mortality (hrs 1.20 [1.07-1.34] and 1.20 [1.16-1.25]  respectively). below the range 22.5-25 kg/m(2)  bmi was associated inversely with overall mortality  mainly because of strong inverse associations with respiratory disease and lung cancer. these inverse associations were much stronger for smokers than for non-smokers  despite cigarette consumption per smoker varying little with bmi. interpretation although other anthropometric measures (eg  waist circumference  waist-to-hip ratio) could well add extra information to bmi  and bmi to them  bmi is in itself a strong predictor of overall mortality both above and below the apparent optimum of about 22.5-25 kg/m(2). the progressive excess mortality above this range is due mainly to vascular disease and is probably largely causal. at 30-35 kg/m(2)  median survival is reduced by 2-4 years; at 40-45 kg/m(2)  it is reduced by 8-10 years (which is comparable with the effects of smoking). the definite excess mortality below 22.5 kg/m(2) is due mainly to smoking-related diseases  and is not fully explained.
5180,signaling architectures that transmit unidirectional information despite retroactivity,a signaling pathway transmits information from an upstream system to downstream systems  ideally in a unidirectional fashion. a key obstacle to unidirectional transmission is retroactivity  the additional reaction flux that affects a system once its species interact with those of downstream systems. this raises the fundamental question of whether signaling pathways have developed specialized architectures that overcome retroactivity and transmit unidirectional signals. here  we propose a general procedure based on mathematical analysis that provides an answer to this question. using this procedure  we analyze the ability of a variety of signaling architectures to transmit one-way (from upstream to downstream) signals  as key biological parameters are tuned. we find that single stage phosphorylation and phosphotransfer systems that transmit signals from a kinase show a stringent design trade-off that hampers their ability to overcome retroactivity. interestingly  cascades of these architectures  which are highly represented in nature  can overcome this trade-off and thus enable unidirectional transmission. by contrast  phosphotransfer systems  and single and double phosphorylation cycles that transmit signals from a substrate are unable to mitigate retroactivity effects  even when cascaded  and hence are not well suited for unidirectional information transmission. our results identify signaling architectures that  allowing unidirectional transmission of signals  embody modular processes that conserve their input/output behavior across multiple contexts. these findings can be used to decompose natural signal transduction networks into modules  and  at the same time  they establish a library of devices that can be used in synthetic biology to facilitate modular circuit design.
5182,adhesion molecules and chemokines: relation to anthropometric  body composition  biochemical and dietary variables,introduction: among the inflammatory mediators involved in the pathogenesis of obesity  the cell adhesion molecules pselectin  e-selectin  vcam-1  icam-1 and the chemokine mcp-1 stand out. they play a crucial role in adherence of cells to endothelial surfaces  in the integrity of the vascular wall and can be modulated by body composition and dietary pattern. objectives: to describe and discuss the relation of these cell adhesion molecules and chemokines to anthropometric  body composition  dietary and biochemical markers. methods: papers were located using scientific databases by topic searches with no restriction on year of publication. results: all molecules were associated positively with anthropometric markers  but controversial results were found for icam-1 and vcam-1. not only obesity  but visceral fat is more strongly correlated with e-selectin and mcp-1 levels. weight loss influences the reduction in the levels of these molecules  except vcam-1. the distribution of macronutrients  excessive consumption of saturated and trans fat and a western dietary pattern are associated with increased levels. the opposite could be observed with supplementation of w-3 fatty acid  healthy dietary pattern  high calcium diet and high dairy intake. regarding the biochemical parameters  they have inverse relation to hdlc and positive relation to total cholesterol  triglycerides  blood glucose  fasting insulin and insulin resistance. conclusion: normal anthropometric indicators  body composition  biochemical parameters and eating pattern positively modulate the subclinical inflammation that results from obesity by reducing the cell adhesion molecules and chemokines.
