DOC_ID,TITLE,TEXT
1,induction of myelodysplasia by myeloid-derived suppressor cells.,myelodysplastic syndromes (mds) are age-dependent stem cell malignancies that share biological features of activated adaptive immune response and ineffective hematopoiesis. here we report that myeloid-derived suppressor cells (mdsc)  which are classically linked to immunosuppression  inflammation  and cancer  were markedly expanded in the bone marrow of mds patients and played a pathogenetic role in the development of ineffective hematopoiesis. these clonally distinct mdsc overproduce hematopoietic suppressive cytokines and function as potent apoptotic effectors targeting autologous hematopoietic progenitors. using multiple transfected cell models  we found that mdsc expansion is driven by the interaction of the proinflammatory molecule s100a9 with cd33. these 2 proteins formed a functional ligand/receptor pair that recruited components to cd33’s immunoreceptor tyrosine-based inhibition motif (itim)  inducing secretion of the suppressive cytokines il-10 and tgf-β by immature myeloid cells. s100a9 transgenic mice displayed bone marrow accumulation of mdsc accompanied by development of progressive multilineage cytopenias and cytological dysplasia. importantly  early forced maturation of mdsc by either all-trans-retinoic acid treatment or active immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif–bearing (itam-bearing) adapter protein (dap12) interruption of cd33 signaling rescued the hematologic phenotype. these findings indicate that primary bone marrow expansion of mdsc driven by the s100a9/cd33 pathway perturbs hematopoiesis and contributes to the development of mds.
3,the dna methylome of human peripheral blood mononuclear cells,dna methylation plays an important role in biological processes in human health and disease. recent technological advances allow unbiased whole-genome dna methylation (methylome) analysis to be carried out on human cells. using whole-genome bisulfite sequencing at 24.7-fold coverage (12.3-fold per strand)  we report a comprehensive (92.62%) methylome and analysis of the unique sequences in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (pbmc) from the same asian individual whose genome was deciphered in the yh project. pbmc constitute an important source for clinical blood tests world-wide. we found that 68.4% of cpg sites and <0.2% of non-cpg sites were methylated  demonstrating that non-cpg cytosine methylation is minor in human pbmc. analysis of the pbmc methylome revealed a rich epigenomic landscape for 20 distinct genomic features  including regulatory  protein-coding  non-coding  rna-coding  and repeat sequences. integration of our methylome data with the yh genome sequence enabled a first comprehensive assessment of allele-specific methylation (asm) between the two haploid methylomes of any individual and allowed the identification of 599 haploid differentially methylated regions (hdmrs) covering 287 genes. of these  76 genes had hdmrs within 2 kb of their transcriptional start sites of which >80% displayed allele-specific expression (ase). these data demonstrate that asm is a recurrent phenomenon and is highly correlated with ase in human pbmcs. together with recently reported similar studies  our study provides a comprehensive resource for future epigenomic research and confirms new sequencing technology as a paradigm for large-scale epigenomics studies.
5,targeting a20 decreases glioma stem cell survival and tumor growth,glioblastomas are deadly cancers that display a functional cellular hierarchy maintained by self-renewing glioblastoma stem cells (gscs). gscs are regulated by molecular pathways distinct from the bulk tumor that may be useful therapeutic targets. we determined that a20 (tnfaip3)  a regulator of cell survival and the nf-kappab pathway  is overexpressed in gscs relative to non-stem glioblastoma cells at both the mrna and protein levels. to determine the functional significance of a20 in gscs  we targeted a20 expression with lentiviral-mediated delivery of short hairpin rna (shrna). inhibiting a20 expression decreased gsc growth and survival through mechanisms associated with decreased cell-cycle progression and decreased phosphorylation of p65/rela. elevated levels of a20 in gscs contributed to apoptotic resistance: gscs were less susceptible to tnfalpha-induced cell death than matched non-stem glioma cells  but a20 knockdown sensitized gscs to tnfalpha-mediated apoptosis. the decreased survival of gscs upon a20 knockdown contributed to the reduced ability of these cells to self-renew in primary and secondary neurosphere formation assays. the tumorigenic potential of gscs was decreased with a20 targeting  resulting in increased survival of mice bearing human glioma xenografts. in silico analysis of a glioma patient genomic database indicates that a20 overexpression and amplification is inversely correlated with survival. together these data indicate that a20 contributes to glioma maintenance through effects on the glioma stem cell subpopulation. although inactivating mutations in a20 in lymphoma suggest a20 can act as a tumor suppressor  similar point mutations have not been identified through glioma genomic sequencing: in fact  our data suggest a20 may function as a tumor enhancer in glioma through promotion of gsc survival. a20 anticancer therapies should therefore be viewed with caution as effects will likely differ depending on the tumor type.
7,empirical bayesian models for analysing molecular serotyping microarrays,background microarrays offer great potential as a platform for molecular diagnostics  testing clinical samples for the presence of numerous biomarkers in highly multiplexed assays. in this study applied to infectious diseases  data from a microarray designed for molecular serotyping of streptococcus pneumoniae was used  identifying the presence of any one of 91 known pneumococcal serotypes from dna extracts. this microarray incorporated oligonucleotide probes for all known capsular polysaccharide synthesis genes and required a statistical analysis of the microarray intensity data to determine which serotype  or combination of serotypes  were present within a sample based on the combination of genes detected. results we propose an empirical bayesian model for calculating the probabilities of combinations of serotypes from the microarray data. the model takes into consideration the dependencies between serotypes  induced by genes they have in common  and by homologous genes which  although not identical  are similar to each other in sequence. for serotypes which are very similar in capsular gene composition  extra probes are included on the microarray  providing additional information which is integrated into the bayesian model. for each serotype combination with high probability  a second model  a bayesian random effects model is applied to determine the relative abundance of each serotype. conclusions to assess the accuracy of the proposed analysis we applied our methods to experimental data from samples containing individual serotypes and samples containing combinations of serotypes with known levels of abundance. all but two of the known serotypes of s. pneumoniae that were tested as individual samples could be uniquely determined by the bayesian model. the model also enabled the presence of combinations of serotypes within samples to be determined. serotypes with very low abundance within a combination of serotypes can be detected (down to 2% abundance in this study). as well as detecting the presence of serotype combinations  an approximate measure of the percentage abundance of the serotypes within the combination can be obtained.
9,simplifying likelihood ratios,likelihood ratios are one of the best measures of diagnostic accuracy  although they are seldom used  because interpreting them requires a calculator to convert back and forth between “probability” and “odds” of disease. this article describes a simpler method of interpreting likelihood ratios  one that avoids calculators  nomograms  and conversions to “odds” of disease. several examples illustrate how the clinician can use this method to refine diagnostic decisions at the bedside.
11,arteriolar function in visceral adipose tissue is impaired in human obesity.,objective the purpose of this study was to characterize the relationship between adipose tissue phenotype and depot-specific microvascular function in fat. methods and results in 30 obese subjects (age 42±11 years  body mass index 46±11 kg/m(2)) undergoing bariatric surgery  we intraoperatively collected visceral and subcutaneous adipose tissue and characterized depot-specific adipose phenotypes. we assessed vasomotor function of the adipose microvasculature using videomicroscopy of small arterioles (75-250 μm) isolated from different fat compartments. endothelium-dependent  acetylcholine-mediated vasodilation was severely impaired in visceral arterioles  compared to the subcutaneous depot (p<0.001 by anova). nonendothelium dependent responses to papaverine and nitroprusside were similar. endothelial nitric oxide synthase inhibition with n(ω)-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester reduced subcutaneous vasodilation but had no effect on severely blunted visceral arteriolar responses. visceral fat exhibited greater expression of proinflammatory  oxidative stress-related  hypoxia-induced  and proangiogenic genes; increased activated macrophage populations; and had a higher capacity for cytokine production ex vivo. conclusions our findings provide clinical evidence that the visceral microenvironment may be intrinsically toxic to arterial health providing a potential mechanism by which visceral adiposity burden is linked to atherosclerotic vascular disease. our findings also support the evolving concept that both adipose tissue quality and quantity may play significant roles in shaping cardiovascular phenotypes in human obesity.
13,loss of immune escape mutations during persistent hcv infection in pregnancy enhances replication of vertically transmitted viruses,globally  about 1% of pregnant women are persistently infected with the hepatitis c virus (hcv). mother-to-child transmission of hcv occurs in 3-5% of pregnancies and accounts for most new childhood infections. hcv-specific cd8(+) cytotoxic t lymphocytes (ctls) are vital in the clearance of acute hcv infections  but in the 60-80% of infections that persist  these cells become functionally exhausted or select for mutant viruses that escape t cell recognition. increased hcv replication during pregnancy suggests that maternofetal immune tolerance mechanisms may further impair hcv-specific ctls  limiting their selective pressure on persistent viruses. to assess this possibility  we characterized circulating viral quasispecies during and after consecutive pregnancies in two women. this revealed a loss of some escape mutations in hla class i epitopes during pregnancy that was associated with emergence of more fit viruses. ctl selective pressure was reimposed after childbirth  at which point escape mutations in these epitopes again predominated in the quasispecies and viral load dropped sharply. importantly  the viruses transmitted perinatally were those with enhanced fitness due to reversion of escape mutations. our findings indicate that the immunoregulatory changes of pregnancy reduce ctl selective pressure on hcv class i epitopes  thereby facilitating vertical transmission of viruses with optimized replicative fitness.
15,the sacroiliac joint in the spondyloarthropathies.,the term spondyloarthropathy (spa) describes and defines a group of related inflammatory joint disease that share characteristic clinical features and a unique association with the major histocompatibility complex class i molecule hla-b27. five subgroups can be differentiated: ankylosing spondylitis  reactive arthritis  psoriatic arthritis  arthritis associated with inflammatory bowel disease  and undifferentiated spa. the sacroiliac joints are centrally involved in the spa  most clearly and pathognomonic in ankylosing spondylitis  in which most patients are affected early in the disease. overcoming some of the diagnostic difficulties of early sacroiliitis  dynamic magnetic resonance imaging was shown to visualize both acute and chronic changes in the sacroiliac joints. the inflammation in the sacroiliac joints in patients with spa was recently examined in more detail; using immunohistology and in situ hybridrization  t cells  macrophages  and various cytokines were found in infiltrates. biopsy specimens were obtained under guided computed tomography  and in the same study  intra-articular corticosteroid treatment was successfully undertaken. further investigation of such biopsy specimens showed the absence of dna of reactive arthritis-associated bacteria. the pathogenesis of the spa and the reason for the tropism for the sacroiliac joints is still obscure. the nature of the relation of the genetic background of spa to initially triggering bacterial infections remains to be established. in chronic disease  autoimmune mechanisms might be more important.
17,cross sectional stature and weight reference curves for the uk  1990.,the current reference curves of stature and weight for the uk were first published in 1966 and have been used ever since despite increasing concern that they may not adequately describe the growth of present day british children. using current data from seven sources new reference curves have been estimated from birth to 20 years for children in 1990. the great majority of the data are nationally representative. the analysis used cole's lms method and has produced efficient estimates of the conventional centiles and gives a good fit to the data. these curves differ from the currently used curves at key ages for both stature and weight. in view of the concerns expressed about the current curves and the differences between them and the new curves  it is proposed that the curves presented here should be adopted as the new uk reference curves.
19,cardiac neural crest cells contribute to the dormant multipotent stem cell in the mammalian heart,arodent cardiac side population cell fraction formed clonal spheroids in serum-free medium  which expressed nestin  musashi-1  and multi-drug resistance transporter gene 1  markers of undifferentiated neural precursor cells. these markers were lost following differentiation  and were replaced by the expression of neuron-  glial-  smooth muscle cell–  or cardiomyocyte-specific proteins. cardiosphere-derived cells transplanted into chick embryos migrated to the truncus arteriosus and cardiac outflow tract and contributed to dorsal root ganglia  spinal nerves  and aortic smooth muscle cells. lineage studies using double transgenic mice encoding protein 0–cre/floxed-egfp revealed undifferentiated and differentiated neural crest-derived cells in the fetal myocardium. undifferentiated cells expressed gata-binding protein 4 and nestin  but not actinin  whereas the differentiated cells were identified as cardiomyocytes. these results suggest that cardiac neural crest-derived cells migrate into the heart  remain there as dormant multipotent stem cells—and under the right conditions—differentiate into cardiomyocytes and typical neural crest-derived cells  including neurons  glia  and smooth muscle.
21,acute administration of recombinant angiopoietin-1 ameliorates multiple-organ dysfunction syndrome and improves survival in murine sepsis.,introduction endothelial activation leading to vascular barrier breakdown plays an essential role in the pathophysiology of multiple-organ dysfunction syndrome (mods) in sepsis. increasing evidence suggests that the function of the vessel-protective factor angiopoietin-1 (ang-1)  a ligand of the endothelial-specific tie2 receptor  is inhibited by its antagonist angiopoietin-2 (ang-2) during sepsis. in order to reverse the effects of the sepsis-induced suppression of ang-1 and elevation of ang-2 we aimed to investigate whether an intravenous injection of recombinant human (rh) ang-1 protects against mods in murine sepsis. methods polymicrobiological abdominal sepsis was induced by cecal ligation and puncture (clp). mice were treated with either 1 μg of intravenous rhang-1 or control buffer immediately after clp induction and every 8h thereafter. sham-operated animals served as time-matched controls. results compared to buffer-treated controls  rhang-1 treated septic mice showed significant improvements in several hematologic and biochemical indicators of mods. moreover  rhang-1 stabilized endothelial barrier function  as evidenced by inhibition of protein leakage from lung capillaries into the alveolar compartment. histological analysis revealed that rhang-1 treatment attenuated leukocyte infiltration in lungs and kidneys of septic mice  probably due to reduced endothelial adhesion molecule expression in rhang-1 treated mice. finally  the protective effects of rhang-1 treatment were reflected by an improved survival time in a lethal clp model. conclusions in a clinically relevant murine sepsis model  intravenous rhang-1 treatment alone is sufficient to significantly improve a variety of sepsis-associated organ dysfunctions and survival time  most likely by preserving endothelial barrier function. further studies are needed to pave the road for clinical application of this therapy concept.
23,tracking the fate of glomerular epithelial cells in vivo using serial multiphoton imaging in novel mouse models with fluorescent lineage tags,podocytes are critical in the maintenance of a healthy glomerular filter; however  they have been difficult to study in the intact kidney because of technical limitations. here we report the development of serial multiphoton microscopy (mpm) of the same glomeruli over several days to visualize the motility of podocytes and parietal epithelial cells (pecs) in vivo. in podocin-gfp mice  podocytes formed sporadic multicellular clusters after unilateral ureteral ligation and migrated into the parietal bowman's capsule. the tracking of single cells in podocin-confetti mice featuring cell-specific expression of cfp  gfp  yfp or rfp revealed the simultaneous migration of multiple podocytes. in phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (pepck)-gfp mice  serial mpm found pec-to-podocyte migration and nanotubule connections. our data support a highly dynamic rather than a static nature of the glomerular environment and cellular composition. future application of this new approach should advance our understanding of the mechanisms of glomerular injury and regeneration.
25,de novo assembly of a pml nuclear subcompartment occurs through multiple pathways and induces telomere elongation.,telomerase-negative tumor cells use an alternative lengthening of telomeres (alt) pathway that involves dna recombination and repair to maintain their proliferative potential. the cytological hallmark of this process is the accumulation of promyelocytic leukemia (pml) nuclear protein at telomeric dna to form alt-associated pml bodies (apbs). here  the de novo formation of a telomeric pml nuclear subcompartment was investigated by recruiting apb protein components. we show that functionally distinct proteins were able to initiate the formation of bona fide apbs with high efficiency in a self-organizing and self-propagating manner. these included: (1) pml and sp100 as the constituting components of pml nuclear bodies  (2) telomere repeat binding factors 1 and 2 (trf1 and trf2  respectively)  (3) the dna repair protein nbs1 and (4) the sumo e3 ligase mms21  as well as the isolated sumo1 domain  through an interacting domain of another protein factor. by contrast  the repair factors rad9  rad17 and rad51 were less efficient in apb nucleation but were recruited to preassembled apbs. the artificially created apbs induced telomeric extension through a dna repair mechanism  as inferred from their colocalization with sites of non-replicative dna synthesis and histone h2a.x phosphorylation  and an increase of the telomere repeat length. these activities were absent after recruitment of the apb factors to a pericentric locus and establish apbs as functional intermediates of the alt pathway.
27,down-regulation of a host microrna by a herpesvirus saimiri noncoding rna.,t cells transformed by herpesvirus saimiri express seven viral u-rich noncoding rnas of unknown function called hsurs. we noted that conserved sequences in hsurs 1 and 2 constitute potential binding sites for three host-cell micrornas (mirnas). coimmunoprecipitation experiments confirmed that hsurs 1 and 2 interact with the predicted mirnas in virally transformed t cells. the abundance of one of these mirnas  mir-27  is dramatically lowered in transformed cells  with consequent effects on the expression of mir-27 target genes. transient knockdown and ectopic expression of hsur 1 demonstrate that it directs degradation of mature mir-27 in a sequence-specific and binding-dependent manner. this viral strategy illustrates use of a ncrna to manipulate host-cell gene expression via the mirna pathway.
29,chk1 inhibits replication factory activation but allows dormant origin firing in existing factories,replication origins are licensed by loading mcm2-7 hexamers before entry into s phase. however  only ∼10% of licensed origins are normally used in s phase  with the others remaining dormant. when fork progression is inhibited  dormant origins initiate nearby to ensure that all of the dna is eventually replicated. in apparent contrast  replicative stress activates ataxia telangiectasia and rad-3-related (atr) and chk1 checkpoint kinases that inhibit origin firing. in this study  we show that at low levels of replication stress  atr/chk1 predominantly suppresses origin initiation by inhibiting the activation of new replication factories  thereby reducing the number of active factories. at the same time  inhibition of replication fork progression allows dormant origins to initiate within existing replication factories. the inhibition of new factory activation by atr/chk1 therefore redirects replication toward active factories where forks are inhibited and away from regions that have yet to start replication. this minimizes the deleterious consequences of fork stalling and prevents similar problems from arising in unreplicated regions of the genome.
31,analysis of sio2 nanoparticles binding proteins in rat blood and brain homogenate,a multitude of nanoparticles  such as titanium oxide (tio2)  zinc oxide  aluminum oxide  gold oxide  silver oxide  iron oxide  and silica oxide  are found in many chemical  cosmetic  pharmaceutical  and electronic products. recently  sio2 nanoparticles were shown to have an inert toxicity profile and no association with an irreversible toxicological change in animal models. hence  exposure to sio2 nanoparticles is on the increase. sio2 nanoparticles are routinely used in numerous materials  from strengthening filler for concrete and other construction composites  to nontoxic platforms for biomedical application  such as drug delivery and theragnostics. on the other hand  recent in vitro experiments indicated that sio2 nanoparticles were cytotoxic. therefore  we investigated these nanoparticles to identify potentially toxic pathways by analyzing the adsorbed protein corona on the surface of sio2 nanoparticles in the blood and brain of the rat. four types of sio2 nanoparticles were chosen for investigation  and the protein corona of each type was analyzed using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry technology. in total  115 and 48 plasma proteins from the rat were identified as being bound to negatively charged 20 nm and 100 nm sio2 nanoparticles  respectively  and 50 and 36 proteins were found for 20 nm and 100 nm arginine-coated sio2 nanoparticles  respectively. higher numbers of proteins were adsorbed onto the 20 nm sized sio2 nanoparticles than onto the 100 nm sized nanoparticles regardless of charge. when proteins were compared between the two charges  higher numbers of proteins were found for arginine-coated positively charged sio2 nanoparticles than for the negatively charged nanoparticles. the proteins identified as bound in the corona from sio2 nanoparticles were further analyzed with cluego  a cytoscape plugin used in protein ontology and for identifying biological interaction pathways. proteins bound on the surface of nanoparticles may affect functional and conformational properties and distributions in complicated biological processes.
33,generation of large numbers of dendritic cells from mouse bone marrow cultures supplemented with granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor,antigen-presenting  major histocompatibility complex (mhc) class ii-rich dendritic cells are known to arise from bone marrow. however  marrow lacks mature dendritic cells  and substantial numbers of proliferating less-mature cells have yet to be identified. the methodology for inducing dendritic cell growth that was recently described for mouse blood now has been modified to mhc class ii-negative precursors in marrow. a key step is to remove the majority of nonadherent  newly formed granulocytes by gentle washes during the first 2-4 d of culture. this leaves behind proliferating clusters that are loosely attached to a more firmly adherent "stroma. " at days 4-6 the clusters can be dislodged  isolated by 1-g sedimentation  and upon reculture  large numbers of dendritic cells are released. the latter are readily identified on the basis of their distinct cell shape  ultrastructure  and repertoire of antigens  as detected with a panel of monoclonal antibodies. the dendritic cells express high levels of mhc class ii products and act as powerful accessory cells for initiating the mixed leukocyte reaction. neither the clusters nor mature dendritic cells are generated if macrophage colony-stimulating factor rather than granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor (gm-csf) is applied. therefore  gm-csf generates all three lineages of myeloid cells (granulocytes  macrophages  and dendritic cells). since > 5 x 10(6) dendritic cells develop in 1 wk from precursors within the large hind limb bones of a single animal  marrow progenitors can act as a major source of dendritic cells. this feature should prove useful for future molecular and clinical studies of this otherwise trace cell type.
35,effect of lowering blood pressure on cardiovascular events and mortality in patients on dialysis: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials,background patients undergoing dialysis have a substantially increased risk of cardiovascular mortality and morbidity. although several trials have shown the cardiovascular benefits of lowering blood pressure in the general population  there is uncertainty about the efficacy and tolerability of reducing blood pressure in patients on dialysis. we did a systematic review and meta-analysis to assess the effect of blood pressure lowering in patients on dialysis. methods we systematically searched medline  embase  and the cochrane library database for trials reported between 1950 and november  2008  without language restriction. we extracted a standardised dataset from randomised controlled trials of blood pressure lowering in patients on dialysis that reported cardiovascular outcomes. meta-analysis was done with a random effects model. findings we identified eight relevant trials  which provided data for 1679 patients and 495 cardiovascular events. weighted mean systolic blood pressure was 4.5 mm hg lower and diastolic blood pressure 2.3 mm hg lower in actively treated patients than in controls. blood pressure lowering treatment was associated with lower risks of cardiovascular events (rr 0.71  95% ci 0.55-0.92; p=0.009)  all-cause mortality (rr 0.80  0.66-0.96; p=0.014)  and cardiovascular mortality (rr 0.71  0.50-0.99; p=0.044) than control regimens. the effects seem to be consistent across a range of patient groups included in the studies. interpretation treatment with agents that lower blood pressure should routinely be considered for individuals undergoing dialysis to reduce the very high cardiovascular morbidity and mortality rate in this population.
37,pml induces compaction  trf2 depletion and dna damage signaling at telomeres and promotes their alternative lengthening.,the alternative lengthening of telomeres (alt) mechanism allows cancer cells to escape senescence and apoptosis in the absence of active telomerase. a characteristic feature of this pathway is the assembly of alt-associated promyelocytic leukemia (pml) nuclear bodies (apbs) at telomeres. here  we dissected the role of apbs in a human alt cell line by performing an rna interference screen using an automated 3d fluorescence microscopy platform and advanced 3d image analysis. we identified 29 proteins that affected apb formation  which included proteins involved in telomere and chromatin organization  protein sumoylation and dna repair. by integrating and extending these findings  we found that apb formation induced clustering of telomere repeats  telomere compaction and concomitant depletion of the shelterin protein trf2 (also known as terf2). these apb-dependent changes correlated with the induction of a dna damage response at telomeres in apbs as evident by a strong enrichment of the phosphorylated form of the ataxia telangiectasia mutated (atm) kinase. accordingly  we propose that apbs promote telomere maintenance by inducing a dna damage response in alt-positive tumor cells through changing the telomeric chromatin state to trigger atm phosphorylation.
39,activin/nodal signalling in stem cells.,activin/nodal growth factors control a broad range of biological processes  including early cell fate decisions  organogenesis and adult tissue homeostasis. here  we provide an overview of the mechanisms by which the activin/nodal signalling pathway governs stem cell function in these different stages of development. we describe recent findings that associate activin/nodal signalling to pathological conditions  focusing on cancer stem cells in tumorigenesis and its potential as a target for therapies. moreover  we will discuss future directions and questions that currently remain unanswered on the role of activin/nodal signalling in stem cell self-renewal  differentiation and proliferation.
41,mechanisms of renal cell apoptosis induced by cyclosporine a: a systematic review of in vitro studies,background:chronic cyclosporine a (csa) nephrotoxicity (ccn) is a major cause of chronic renal dysfunction and has no effective clinical interventions yet. objective: to reveal the mechanisms of renal cell apoptosis in ccn  we analyzed all in vitro studies of such mechanisms. methods: we collected all in vitro studies about the mechanisms of renal cell apoptosis induced by csa in medline (1966 to july 2010)  embase (1980 to july 2010) and isi (1986 to july 2010)  evaluated their quality according to in vitro standards and extracted data following the picos principles and synthesized the data. results: first csa could upregulate fas and fas-l expression  increase fadd and apoptosis enzymes (caspase-2  -3  -4  -7  -8  -9 and -10) and downregulate the bcl-2 and bcl-xl. second  csa could induce oxidative stress and damage the antioxidant defense system. third  csa could increase the expression of herp  grp78 and chop. fourth  csa could induce renal cell apoptosis and increase their inos and p53 expression in cultured cells. conclusions: at least four pathways are involved in renal cell apoptosis induced by csa in different cell species. caspases might be their final common pathway in vitro. they might all provide potential points for interventions  but these need to be confirmed in vivo.
43,probable person to person transmission of novel avian influenza a (h7n9) virus in eastern china  2013: epidemiological investigation,objective to determine whether the novel avian influenza h7n9 virus can transmit from person to person and its efficiency. design epidemiological investigations conducted after a family cluster of two patients with avian h7n9 in march 2013. setting wuxi  eastern china. participants two patients  their close contacts  and relevant environments. samples from the patients and environments were collected and tested by real time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (rrt-pcr)  viral culture  and haemagglutination inhibition assay. any contacts who became ill had samples tested for avian h7n9 by rrt-pcr. paired serum samples were obtained from contacts for serological testing by haemagglutination inhibition assays. main outcomes measures clinical data  history of exposure before the onset of illnesses  and results of laboratory testing of pathogens and further analysis of sequences and phylogenetic tree to isolated strains. results the index patient became ill five to six days after his last exposure to poultry. the second patient  his daughter aged 32  who provided unprotected bedside care in the hospital  had no known exposure to poultry. she developed symptoms six days after her last contact with her father. two strains were isolated successfully from the two patients. genome sequence and analyses of phylogenetic trees showed that both viruses were almost genetically identical. forty three close contacts of both patients were identified. one had mild illness but had negative results for avian h7n9 by rrt-pcr. all 43 close contacts tested negative for haemagglutination inhibition antibodies specific for avian h7n9. conclusions the infection of the daughter probably resulted from contact with her father (the index patient) during unprotected exposure  suggesting that in this cluster the virus was able to transmit from person to person. the transmissibility was limited and non-sustainable.
45,cd127 expression inversely correlates with foxp3 and suppressive function of human cd4+ t reg cells,regulatory t (t reg) cells are critical regulators of immune tolerance. most t reg cells are defined based on expression of cd4  cd25  and the transcription factor  foxp3. however  these markers have proven problematic for uniquely defining this specialized t cell subset in humans. we found that the il-7 receptor (cd127) is down-regulated on a subset of cd4+ t cells in peripheral blood. we demonstrate that the majority of these cells are foxp3+  including those that express low levels or no cd25. a combination of cd4  cd25  and cd127 resulted in a highly purified population of t reg cells accounting for significantly more cells that previously identified based on other cell surface markers. these cells were highly suppressive in functional suppressor assays. in fact  cells separated based solely on cd4 and cd127 expression were anergic and  although representing at least three times the number of cells (including both cd25+cd4+ and cd25−cd4+ t cell subsets)  were as suppressive as the “classic” cd4+cd25hi t reg cell subset. finally  we show that cd127 can be used to quantitate t reg cell subsets in individuals with type 1 diabetes supporting the use of cd127 as a biomarker for human t reg cells.
47,genomic imprinting in development  growth  behavior and stem cells.,genes that are subject to genomic imprinting in mammals are preferentially expressed from a single parental allele. this imprinted expression of a small number of genes is crucial for normal development  as these genes often directly regulate fetal growth. recent work has also demonstrated intricate roles for imprinted genes in the brain  with important consequences on behavior and neuronal function. finally  new studies have revealed the importance of proper expression of specific imprinted genes in induced pluripotent stem cells and in adult stem cells. as we review here  these findings highlight the complex nature and developmental importance of imprinted genes.
49,targeting arginine metabolism pathway to treat arginine-dependent cancers.,the significant disparities in metabolism between tumor and normal cells have inspired the development of metabolism-based anti-tumor therapeutics. arginine is a semi-essential amino acid because normal cells can not only synthesize arginine de novo but also take up extracellular arginine. several types of tumors have abnormalities in arginine metabolism enzymes and completely rely on extracellular arginine to support necessary biological processes. this property is referred to as arginine auxotrophy. taking advantage of characteristic arginine auxotrophy in tumors  arginine deprivation  which is generally induced by the use of arginine deiminase (adi) and arginase i  has been investigated as a novel strategy for cancer therapy. arginine deprivation demonstrated promising efficacy against arginine-auxotrophic tumors. by integrating perspectives from both clinical oncologists and laboratory scientists  this article reviews the important aspects of arginine deprivation as a promising anticancer therapy.
51,long-term immune deficiency after allogeneic stem cell transplantation: b-cell deficiency is associated with late infections.,immune reconstitution was analyzed in 140 consecutive patients who were 2-year disease-free and who underwent myeloablative allogeneic transplantation. a cd4 and cd8 defect was observed involving naive  terminally differentiated  memory and competent cells and above limits values for activated subsets. natural killer cells normalize at six months while we observed expansion of cd19(+)/cd5(+) b cells after three months and a persisting defect of memory b cells. chronic graft-versus-host disease did not influence significantly those parameters for cd8 subsets while the naïve and competent cd4 subsets were strongly affected. but the most profound impact of chronic graft-versus-host disease was on b-cell subsets  especially on the memory b population. the cumulative incidence of late severe infections was low (14% at four years). using cox's models  only low b-cell counts at 12 (p=0.02) and 24 (p=0.001) months were associated with the hazard of developing late infection  in particular if patients did not develop chronic graft-versus-host disease.
53,control of glutamate clearance and synaptic efficacy by glial coverage of neurons.,analysis of excitatory synaptic transmission in the rat hypothalamic supraoptic nucleus revealed that glutamate clearance and  as a consequence  glutamate concentration and diffusion in the extracellular space  is associated with the degree of astrocytic coverage of its neurons. reduction in glutamate clearance  whether induced pharmacologically or associated with a relative decrease of glial coverage in the vicinity of synapses  affected transmitter release through modulation of presynaptic metabotropic glutamate receptors. astrocytic wrapping of neurons  therefore  contributes to the regulation of synaptic efficacy in the central nervous system.
55,a functional neuroimaging study of sound localization: visual cortex activity predicts performance in early-blind individuals,blind individuals often demonstrate enhanced nonvisual perceptual abilities. however  the neural substrate that underlies this improved performance remains to be fully understood. an earlier behavioral study demonstrated that some early-blind people localize sounds more accurately than sighted controls using monaural cues. in order to investigate the neural basis of these behavioral differences in humans  we carried out functional imaging studies using positron emission tomography and a speaker array that permitted pseudo-free-field presentations within the scanner. during binaural sound localization  a sighted control group showed decreased cerebral blood flow in the occipital lobe  which was not seen in early-blind individuals. during monaural sound localization (one ear plugged)  the subgroup of early-blind subjects who were behaviorally superior at sound localization displayed two activation foci in the occipital cortex. this effect was not seen in blind persons who did not have superior monaural sound localization abilities  nor in sighted individuals. the degree of activation of one of these foci was strongly correlated with sound localization accuracy across the entire group of blind subjects. the results show that those blind persons who perform better than sighted persons recruit occipital areas to carry out auditory localization under monaural conditions. we therefore conclude that computations carried out in the occipital cortex specifically underlie the enhanced capacity to use monaural cues. our findings shed light not only on intermodal compensatory mechanisms  but also on individual differences in these mechanisms and on inhibitory patterns that differ between sighted individuals and those deprived of vision early in life.
57,murine dishevelled 3 functions in redundant pathways with dishevelled 1 and 2 in normal cardiac outflow tract  cochlea  and neural tube development,dishevelled (dvl) proteins are important signaling components of both the canonical beta-catenin/wnt pathway  which controls cell proliferation and patterning  and the planar cell polarity (pcp) pathway  which coordinates cell polarity within a sheet of cells and also directs convergent extension cell (ce) movements that produce narrowing and elongation of the tissue. three mammalian dvl genes have been identified and the developmental roles of dvl1 and dvl2 were previously determined. here  we identify the functions of dvl3 in development and provide evidence of functional redundancy among the three murine dvls. dvl3(-/-) mice died perinatally with cardiac outflow tract abnormalities  including double outlet right ventricle and persistent truncus arteriosis. these mutants also displayed a misorientated stereocilia in the organ of corti  a phenotype that was enhanced with the additional loss of a single allele of the pcp component vangl2/ltap (ltaplp/+). although neurulation appeared normal in both dvl3(-/-) and ltaplp/+ mutants  dvl3(+/-);ltaplp/+ combined mutants displayed incomplete neural tube closure. importantly  we show that many of the roles of dvl3 are also shared by dvl1 and dvl2. more severe phenotypes were observed in dvl3 mutants with the deficiency of another dvl  and increasing dvl dosage genetically with dvl transgenes demonstrated the ability of dvls to compensate for each other to enable normal development. interestingly  global canonical wnt signaling appeared largely unaffected in the double dvl mutants  suggesting that low dvl levels are sufficient for functional canonical wnt signals. in summary  we demonstrate that dvl3 is required for cardiac outflow tract development and describe its importance in the pcp pathway during neurulation and cochlea development. finally  we establish several developmental processes in which the three dvls are functionally redundant.
59,long-term outcome of patients with asystole induced by head-up tilt test.,aims to analyse the long-term outcome of the largest reported cohort of patients presenting asystole during head-up tilt test. methods and results since 1990  1322 patients with syncope of unknown origin have undergone tilt-table testing. of those  330 patients (24 x 9%) presented an abnormal response (syncope or pre-syncope). furthermore  58 of those patients (17 x 5%) suffered a period of asystole (> or = 3000 ms) during the test. asystole (median (interquartile range)) lasted 10 (4  19 x 2) s (range 3-90). two different protocols (angles) of tilting (westminster (60 degrees) n=1124; isoproterenol (80 degrees) n=198)) influenced the time to the syncopal episode (13 (6 x 5  20 x 5) vs 2 (1  6 x 5) min  p=0 0005) but not the duration of the asystole. during this period  therapy for asystole featured three different stages: first patients were treated with pacemakers; later drug therapy (metoprolol and/or etilefrine) was recommended; lastly (from 1995)  no specific treatment was given. in a cohort age- and gender-matched study  those patients without were compared to those with asystole in a 2:1 basis. during 40 x 7 months of follow-up (17 x 7  66 x 8)  12 patients (20 x 6%) with asystole had syncopal recurrences. furthermore  34 patients (28 x 8%) without asystole presented syncopal episodes during a follow-up of 51 x 6 months (29 x 3  73 x 1) (p=ns). the kaplan-meier analysis in patients with and without asystole showed a mean time free of recurrence of 92 x 6 +/- 6 months vs 82 x 6 +/- 4 x 7 months (p=ns). the previous number of syncopes had a significant relationship with recurrences (p=0 x 002)  but not therapy. there were no cardiac related deaths. conclusions (1) asystole during head-up tilt test does not imply a malignant outcome and syncope recurrence is low; (2) pacemaker or drug therapy do not significantly influence outcome which correlates to the previous number of syncopal episodes but not to gender  age  asystole occurrence  asystole duration and timing to asystole during head-up tilt test; (3) tilting protocol (angle) might influence time to and incidence of asystole during head-up tilt test.
61,condensin-mediated remodeling of the mitotic chromatin landscape in fission yeast,the eukaryotic genome consists of dna molecules far longer than the cells that contain them. they reach their greatest compaction during chromosome condensation in mitosis. this process is aided by condensin  a structural maintenance of chromosomes (smc) family member. the spatial organization of mitotic chromosomes and how condensin shapes chromatin architecture are not yet fully understood. here we use chromosome conformation capture (hi-c) to study mitotic chromosome condensation in the fission yeast schizosaccharomyces pombe. this showed that the interphase landscape characterized by small chromatin domains is replaced by fewer but larger domains in mitosis. condensin achieves this by setting up longer-range  intrachromosomal dna interactions  which compact and individualize chromosomes. at the same time  local chromatin contacts are constrained by condensin  with profound implications for local chromatin function during mitosis. our results highlight condensin as a major determinant that changes the chromatin landscape as cells prepare their genomes for cell division.
63,curcumin attenuates inflammatory response in il-1beta-induced human synovial fibroblasts and collagen-induced arthritis in mouse model.,curcumin  a major component of turmeric  has been shown to exhibit anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory activities. the present study was performed to determine whether curcumin is efficacious against both collagen-induced arthritis (cia) in mice and il-1beta-induced activation in fibroblast-like synoviocytes (flss). dba/1 mice were immunized with bovine type ii collagen (cii) and treated with curcumin every other day for 2weeks after the initial immunization. for arthritis  we evaluated the incidence of disease and used an arthritis index based on paw thickness. in vitro proliferation of cii- or concanavalin a-induced splenic t cells was examined using ifn-gamma production. pro-inflammatory cytokines tnf-alpha and il-1beta were examined in the mouse ankle joint and serum igg1 and igg2a isotypes were analyzed. the expression levels of prostaglandin e(2) (pge(2))  cyclooxygenase-2 (cox-2)  and matrix metalloproteinases (mmps) in human flss were also determined. the results showed that compared with untreated cia mice  curcumin-treated mice downregulated clinical arthritis score  the proliferation of splenic t cells  expression levels of tnf-alpha and il-1beta in the ankle joint  and expression levels of igg2a in serum. additionally  by altering nuclear factor (nf)-kappab transcription activity in flss  curcumin inhibited pge(2) production  cox-2 expression  and mmp secretion. these results suggest that curcumin can effectively suppress inflammatory response by inhibiting pro-inflammatory mediators and regulating humoral and cellular immune responses.
65,antimicrobial peptide pleurocidin synergizes with antibiotics through hydroxyl radical formation and membrane damage  and exerts antibiofilm activity.,background pleurocidin  a 25-mer antimicrobial peptide (amp)  is known to exert bactericidal activity. however  the synergistic activity and mechanism(s) of pleurocidin in combination with conventional antibiotics  and the antibiofilm effect of the peptide are poorly understood. methods the interaction between pleurocidin and antibiotics was evaluated using checkerboard assay. to study the mechanism(s) involved in their synergism  we detected hydroxyl radical formation using 3'-(p-hydroxyphenyl) fluorescein  measured the nad(+)/nadh ratio by nad(+) cycling assay  observed change in bacterial viability with the hydroxyl radical scavenger thiourea  and investigated cytoplasmic membrane damage using propidium iodide. also  the antibiofilm effect of pleurocidin was examined with the tissue culture plate method. results all combinations of pleurocidin and antibiotics showed synergistic interaction against bacterial strains (fractional inhibitory concentration index (fici)≤0.5) except for enterococcus faecium treated with a combination of the peptide and ampicillin (fici=0.75). we identified that pleurocidin alone and in combinations with antibiotics induced formation of hydroxyl radicals. the oxidative stress was caused by a transient nadh depletion and the addition of thiourea prevented bacterial death  especially in the case of the combined treatment of pleurocidin and ampicillin showing synergisms. the combination of pleurocidin and erythromycin increased permeability of bacterial cytoplasmic membrane. additionally  pleurocidin exhibited a potent inhibitory effect on preformed biofilm of bacterial organisms. in conclusion  pleurocidin synergized with antibiotics through hydroxyl radical formation and membrane-active mechanism  and exerted antibiofilm activity. general significance the synergistic effect between pleurocidin and antibiotics suggests the amp is a potential therapeutic agent and adjuvant for antimicrobial chemotherapy.
67,high-mobility group box-1 protein induces osteogenic phenotype changes in aortic valve interstitial cells.,objectives calcific aortic valve (av) disease is known to be an inflammation-related process. high-mobility group box-1 (hmgb1) protein and toll-like receptor 4 (tlr4) have been reported to participate in several inflammatory diseases. the purpose of the present study was to determine whether the hmgb1-tlr4 axis is involved in calcific av disease  and to evaluate the effect of hmgb1  and its potential mechanisms  on the pro-osteogenic phenotype change of valvular interstitial cells (vics). methods expression of hmgb1 and tlr4 in human calcific avs was evaluated using immunohistochemical staining and immunoblotting. cultured vics were used as an in vitro model. the vics were stimulated with hmgb1 for analysis  with versus without tlr4 small interfering ribonucleic acid (sirna)  c-jun n-terminal kinase mitogen-activated protein kinase (jnk mapk)  and nuclear factor kappa-b (nf-κb) inhibitors. results enhanced accumulation of hmgb1 and tlr4 was observed in calcific valves. moreover  we found that hmgb1 induced high levels of pro-inflammatory cytokine production and promoted the osteoblastic differentiation and calcification of vics. in addition  hmgb1 induced phosphorylation of jnk mapk and nf-κb. however  these effects were markedly suppressed by sirna silencing of tlr4. in addition  blockade of jnk mapk and nf-κb phosphorylation prohibited hmgb1-induced production of pro-osteogenic factors  and mineralization of vics. conclusions the hmgb1 protein may promote osteoblastic differentiation and calcification of vics  through the tlr4-jnk-nf-κb signaling pathway.
69,generation of mice with a conditional allele for the p75(ntr) neurotrophin receptor gene.,the p75(ntr) neurotrophin receptor has been implicated in multiple biological and pathological processes. while significant advances have recently been made in understanding the physiologic role of p75(ntr)   many details and aspects remain to be determined. this is in part because the two existing knockout mouse models (exons 3 or 4 deleted  respectively)  both display features that defy definitive conclusions. here we describe the generation of mice that carry a conditional p75(ntr) (p75(ntr-fx) ) allele made by flanking exons 4-6  which encode the transmembrane and all cytoplasmic domains  by loxp sites. to validate this novel conditional allele  both neural crest-specific p75(ntr) /wnt1-cre mutants and conventional p75(ntr) null mutants were generated. both mutants displayed abnormal hind limb reflexes  implying that loss of p75(ntr) in neural crest-derived cells causes a peripheral neuropathy similar to that seen in conventional p75(ntr) mutants. this novel conditional p75(ntr) allele will offer new opportunities to investigate the role of p75(ntr) in specific tissues and cells.
71,universal voluntary hiv testing with immediate antiretroviral therapy as a strategy for elimination of hiv transmission: a mathematical model.,background roughly 3 million people worldwide were receiving antiretroviral therapy (art) at the end of 2007  but an estimated 6.7 million were still in need of treatment and a further 2.7 million became infected with hiv in 2007. prevention efforts might reduce hiv incidence but are unlikely to eliminate this disease. we investigated a theoretical strategy of universal voluntary hiv testing and immediate treatment with art  and examined the conditions under which the hiv epidemic could be driven towards elimination. methods we used mathematical models to explore the effect on the case reproduction number (stochastic model) and long-term dynamics of the hiv epidemic (deterministic transmission model) of testing all people in our test-case community (aged 15 years and older) for hiv every year and starting people on art immediately after they are diagnosed hiv positive. we used data from south africa as the test case for a generalised epidemic  and assumed that all hiv transmission was heterosexual. findings the studied strategy could greatly accelerate the transition from the present endemic phase  in which most adults living with hiv are not receiving art  to an elimination phase  in which most are on art  within 5 years. it could reduce hiv incidence and mortality to less than one case per 1000 people per year by 2016  or within 10 years of full implementation of the strategy  and reduce the prevalence of hiv to less than 1% within 50 years. we estimate that in 2032  the yearly cost of the present strategy and the theoretical strategy would both be us$1.7 billion; however  after this time  the cost of the present strategy would continue to increase whereas that of the theoretical strategy would decrease. interpretation universal voluntary hiv testing and immediate art  combined with present prevention approaches  could have a major effect on severe generalised hiv/aids epidemics. this approach merits further mathematical modelling  research  and broad consultation.
73,neutrophils suppress intraluminal nk cell-mediated tumor cell clearance and enhance extravasation of disseminated carcinoma cells.,unlabelled immune cells promote the initial metastatic dissemination of carcinoma cells from primary tumors. in contrast to their well-studied functions in the initial stages of metastasis  the specific roles of immunocytes in facilitating progression through the critical later steps of the invasion-metastasis cascade remain poorly understood. here  we define novel functions of neutrophils in promoting intraluminal survival and extravasation at sites of metastatic dissemination. we show that cd11b(+)/ly6g(+) neutrophils enhance metastasis formation via two distinct mechanisms. first  neutrophils inhibit natural killer cell function  which leads to a significant increase in the intraluminal survival time of tumor cells. thereafter  neutrophils operate to facilitate extravasation of tumor cells through the secretion of il1β and matrix metalloproteinases. these results identify neutrophils as key regulators of intraluminal survival and extravasation through their cross-talk with host cells and disseminating carcinoma cells. significance this study provides important insights into the systemic contributions of neutrophils to cancer metastasis by identifying how neutrophils facilitate intermediate steps of the invasion-metastasis cascade. we demonstrate that neutrophils suppress natural killer cell activity and increase extravasation of tumor cells. cancer discov; 6(6); 630-49. ©2016 aacr.this article is highlighted in the in this issue feature  p. 561.
75,histones are incorporated in trans during reassembly of the yeast pho5 promoter.,in yeast  remodeling of pho5 promoter chromatin upon activation is accompanied by transient hyperacetylation and subsequent eviction of histones from the promoter in trans. in the course of rerepression  nucleosomes have to be reassembled on the promoter. we have analyzed where the histones for reassembly of the inactive promoter chromatin come from. the use of a strain with two differently tagged and differently regulated versions of histone h3 allowed us to discriminate between histones originating from the chromatin fraction and histones arising from the soluble histone pool. in this way  we show that the incorporated histones originate from a source in trans. promoter closure occurs very rapidly  and the histone chaperones asf1 and hir1 as well as the swi/snf nucleosome remodeling complex appear to be important for rapid reassembly of nucleosomes at the pho5 promoter.
77,technical advance floral dip: a simplified method for agrobacterium-mediated,the agrobacterium vacuum infiltration method has made it possible to transform arabidopsis thaliana without plant tissue culture or regeneration. in the present study  this method was evaluated and a substantially modified transformation method was developed. the labor-intensive vacuum infiltration process was eliminated in favor of simple dipping of developing floral tissues into a solution containing agrobacterium tumefaciens  5% sucrose and 500 microliters per litre of surfactant silwet l-77. sucrose and surfactant were critical to the success of the floral dip method. plants inoculated when numerous immature floral buds and few siliques were present produced transformed progeny at the highest rate. plant tissue culture media  the hormone benzylamino purine and ph adjustment were unnecessary  and agrobacterium could be applied to plants at a range of cell densities. repeated application of agrobacterium improved transformation rates and overall yield of transformants approximately twofold. covering plants for 1 day to retain humidity after inoculation also raised transformation rates twofold. multiple ecotypes were transformable by this method. the modified method should facilitate high-throughput transformation of arabidopsis for efforts such as t-dna gene tagging  positional cloning  or attempts at targeted gene replacement.
79,premigratory and migratory neural crest cells are multipotent in vivo.,the neural crest (nc) is an embryonic stem/progenitor cell population that generates a diverse array of cell lineages  including peripheral neurons  myelinating schwann cells  and melanocytes  among others. however  there is a long-standing controversy as to whether this broad developmental perspective reflects in vivo multipotency of individual nc cells or whether the nc is comprised of a heterogeneous mixture of lineage-restricted progenitors. here  we resolve this controversy by performing in vivo fate mapping of single trunk nc cells both at premigratory and migratory stages using the r26r-confetti mouse model. by combining quantitative clonal analyses with definitive markers of differentiation  we demonstrate that the vast majority of individual nc cells are multipotent  with only few clones contributing to single derivatives. intriguingly  multipotency is maintained in migratory nc cells. thus  our findings provide definitive evidence for the in vivo multipotency of both premigratory and migrating nc cells in the mouse.
81,generation of gene-edited rats by delivery of crispr/cas9 protein and donor dna into intact zygotes using electroporation,the generation of gene-edited animals using the crisprs/cas9 system is based on microinjection into zygotes which is inefficient  time consuming and demands high technical skills. we report the optimization of an electroporation method for intact rat zygotes using sgrnas and cas9 protein in combination or not with ssodns (~100 nt). this resulted in high frequency of knockouts  between 15 and 50% of analyzed animals. importantly  using ssodns as donor template resulted in precise knock-in mutations in 25-100% of analyzed animals  comparable to microinjection. electroporation of long ssdna or dsdna donors successfully used in microinjection in the past did not allow generation of genome-edited animals despite dsdna visualization within zygotes. thus  simultaneous electroporation of a large number of intact rat zygotes is a rapid  simple  and efficient method for the generation of a variety of genome-edited rats.
83,pre-exposure prophylaxis to prevent hiv infection: current status  future opportunities and challenges,as the global incidence of hiv exceeds 2 million new infections annually  effective interventions to decrease hiv transmission are needed. randomized  placebo-controlled studies have demonstrated that daily oral antiretroviral pre-exposure prophylaxis (prep) with a fixed-dose combination tablet containing tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and emtricitabine can significantly reduce hiv incidence among diverse at-risk populations. in these studies  the efficacy of prep was correlated with levels of adherence. official guidelines recommend provision of prep to people at greatest risk of hiv acquisition  and demonstration projects suggest that high levels of uptake and adherence are possible outside of controlled studies. however  several potential barriers to implementing prep remain. these challenges include low awareness and utilization of prep by at-risk individuals  uncertainty about adherence in ‘real-world’ settings  the majority of healthcare providers being untrained in prep provision  limited data about potential adverse effects from long-term use of tenofovir–emtricitabine  high costs of prep medications  and stigma associated with prep use and the behaviors that would warrant prep. innovative pharmacologic chemoprophylactic approaches could provide solutions to some of these challenges. less-than-daily oral dosing regimens and long-acting injectable medications could reduce pill burdens and facilitate adherence  and local delivery of prep medications to genital compartments via gels  rings and films may limit systemic drug exposure and potential toxicities. as the portfolio of chemoprophylactic agents and delivery systems expands to meet the diverse sexual health needs and product preferences of individuals who may benefit from prep  it is hoped that antiretroviral chemoprophylaxis could become an acceptable  feasible  and highly effective addition to existing hiv prevention strategies.
85,multiple risk behaviour: increasing socio-economic gap over time?,background unhealthy behaviours often occur in combination. in this study the relationship between education and lifestyle  defined as a cluster of risk behaviours  has been analysed with the purpose to assess socio-economic changes in multiple risk behaviour over time. methods cross-sectional data from the belgian health interview surveys 1997  2001 and 2004 were analysed. this study is restricted to persons aged ≥ 15 years with information on those health behaviours and education (n = 7431  n = 8142 and n = 7459  respectively). a lifestyle index was created based on the sum of the four unhealthy behaviours: smokers vs. non-smokers  risky versus non-risky alcohol use  sedentaryness vs. physically active and poor vs. healthy diet. the lifestyle index was dichotomized as low (0-2) vs. high (3-4). for the assessment of socio-economic inequalities in multiple risk behaviour  summary measures as odds ratio (or) and relative index of inequality (rii) were calculated using logistic regression  stratified by sex. results of the adult population  7.5% combined three to four unhealthy behaviours. lower educated men are the most at risk. besides  the or among men significantly increased from 1.6 in 2001 to 3.4 in 2004 (p = 0.029). the increase of the or among women was less pronounced. the rii  on the other hand  did not show any gradient  neither for men nor for women. conclusion multiple risk behaviour is more common among lower educated people. an increasing polarization in socio-economic inequalities is assessed from 2001 to 2004 among men. therefore  health promotion programmes should focus on the lower socio-economic classes and target risk behaviours simultaneously.
87,multiplex genome engineering using crispr/cas systems.,functional elucidation of causal genetic variants and elements requires precise genome editing technologies. the type ii prokaryotic crispr (clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats)/cas adaptive immune system has been shown to facilitate rna-guided site-specific dna cleavage. we engineered two different type ii crispr/cas systems and demonstrate that cas9 nucleases can be directed by short rnas to induce precise cleavage at endogenous genomic loci in human and mouse cells. cas9 can also be converted into a nicking enzyme to facilitate homology-directed repair with minimal mutagenic activity. lastly  multiple guide sequences can be encoded into a single crispr array to enable simultaneous editing of several sites within the mammalian genome  demonstrating easy programmability and wide applicability of the rna-guided nuclease technology.
89,health-related quality of life as measured with eq-5d among populations with and without specific chronic conditions: a population-based survey in shaanxi province  china,introduction the aim of this study was to examine health-related quality of life (hrqol) as measured by eq-5d and to investigate the influence of chronic conditions and other risk factors on hrqol based on a distributed sample located in shaanxi province  china. methods a multi-stage stratified cluster sampling method was performed to select subjects. eq-5d was employed to measure the hrqol. the likelihood that individuals with selected chronic diseases would report any problem in the eq-5d dimensions was calculated and tested relative to that of each of the two reference groups. multivariable linear regression models were used to investigate factors associated with eq vas. results the most frequently reported problems involved pain/discomfort (8.8%) and anxiety/depression (7.6%). nearly half of the respondents who reported problems in any of the five dimensions were chronic patients. higher eq vas scores were associated with the male gender  higher level of education  employment  younger age  an urban area of residence  access to free medical service and higher levels of physical activity. except for anemia  all the selected chronic diseases were indicative of a negative eq vas score. the three leading risk factors were cerebrovascular disease  cancer and mental disease. increases in age  number of chronic conditions and frequency of physical activity were found to have a gradient effect. conclusion the results of the present work add to the volume of knowledge regarding population health status in this area  apart from the known health status using mortality and morbidity data. medical  policy  social and individual attention should be given to the management of chronic diseases and improvement of hrqol. longitudinal studies must be performed to monitor changes in hrqol and to permit evaluation of the outcomes of chronic disease intervention programs.
91,lpd depletion reveals that srf specifies radial versus tangential migration of pyramidal neurons,during corticogenesis  pyramidal neurons (∼80% of cortical neurons) arise from the ventricular zone  pass through a multipolar stage to become bipolar and attach to radial glia  and then migrate to their proper position within the cortex. as pyramidal neurons migrate radially  they remain attached to their glial substrate as they pass through the subventricular and intermediate zones  regions rich in tangentially migrating interneurons and axon fibre tracts. we examined the role of lamellipodin (lpd)  a homologue of a key regulator of neuronal migration and polarization in caenorhabditis elegans  in corticogenesis. lpd depletion caused bipolar pyramidal neurons to adopt a tangential  rather than radial-glial  migration mode without affecting cell fate. mechanistically  lpd depletion reduced the activity of srf  a transcription factor regulated by changes in the ratio of polymerized to unpolymerized actin. therefore  lpd depletion exposes a role for srf in directing pyramidal neurons to select a radial migration pathway along glia rather than a tangential migration mode.
93,two-stage control of an oxidative stress regulon: the escherichia coli soxr protein triggers redox-inducible expression of the soxs regulatory gene.,escherichia coli responds to the redox stress imposed by superoxide-generating agents such as paraquat by activating the synthesis of as many as 80 polypeptides. expression of a key group of these inducible proteins is controlled at the transcriptional level by the soxrs locus (the soxrs regulon). a two-stage control system was hypothesized for soxrs  in which an intracellular redox signal would trigger the soxr protein as a transcriptional activator of the soxs gene and the resulting increased levels of soxs protein would activate transcription of the various soxrs regulon genes (b. demple and c.f. amábile cuevas  cell 67:837-839  1990). we have constructed operon fusions of the e. coli lac genes to the soxs promoter to monitor soxs transcription. expression from the soxs promoter is strongly inducible by paraquat in a manner strictly dependent on a functional soxr gene. several other superoxide-generating agents also trigger soxr(+)-dependent soxs expression  and the inductions by paraquat and phenazine methosulfate were dependent on the presence of oxygen. numerous other oxidative stress agents (h2o2  gamma rays  heat shock  etc.) failed to induce soxs  while aerobic growth of superoxide dismutase-deficient bacteria triggered soxr-dependent soxs expression. these results indicate a specific redox signal for soxs induction. a direct role for soxr protein in the activation of the soxs gene is indicated by band-shift and dnase i footprinting experiments that demonstrate specific binding of the soxr protein in cell extracts to the soxs promoter. the mode of soxr binding to dna appears to be similar to that of its homolog merr in that the soxr footprint spans the -10 to -35 region of the soxs promoter.
95,non-invasive ventilation in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease patients: helmet versus facial mask,the helmet is a new interface with the potential of increasing the success rate of non-invasive ventilation by improving tolerance. to perform a physiological comparison between the helmet and the conventional facial mask in delivering non-invasive ventilation in hypercapnic patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. prospective  controlled  randomized study with cross-over design. in 10 patients we evaluated gas exchange  inspiratory effort  patient–ventilator synchrony and patient tolerance after 30 min of non-invasive ventilation delivered either by helmet or facial mask; both trials were preceded by periods of spontaneous unassisted breathing. arterial blood gases  inspiratory effort  duration of diaphragm contraction and ventilator assistance  effort-to-support delays (at the beginning and at the end of inspiration)  number of ineffective efforts  and patient comfort. non-invasive ventilation improved gas exchange (p< 0.05) and inspiratory effort (p< 0.01) with both interfaces. the helmet  however  was less efficient than the mask in reducing inspiratory effort (p< 0.05) and worsened the patient–ventilator synchrony  as indicated by the longer delays to trigger on (p< 0.05) and cycle off (p< 0.05) the mechanical assistance and by the number of ineffective efforts (p< 0.005). patient comfort was no different with the two interfaces. helmet and facial mask were equally tolerated and both were effective in ameliorating gas exchange and decreasing inspiratory effort. the helmet  however  was less efficient in decreasing inspiratory effort and worsened the patient–ventilator interaction.
97,evidence that the ipl1-sli15 (aurora kinase-incenp) complex promotes chromosome bi-orientation by altering kinetochore-spindle pole connections,how sister kinetochores attach to microtubules from opposite spindle poles during mitosis (bi-orientation) remains poorly understood. in yeast  the ortholog of the aurora b-incenp protein kinase complex (ipl1-sli15) may have a role in this crucial process  because it is necessary to prevent attachment of sister kinetochores to microtubules from the same spindle pole. we investigated ipl1 function in cells that cannot replicate their chromosomes but nevertheless duplicate their spindle pole bodies (spbs). kinetochores detach from old spbs and reattach to old and new spbs with equal frequency in ipl1+ cells  but remain attached to old spbs in ipl1 mutants. this raises the possibility that ipl1-sli15 facilitates bi-orientation by promoting turnover of kinetochore-spb connections until traction of sister kinetochores toward opposite spindle poles creates tension in the surrounding chromatin.
99,e2f-dependent histone acetylation and recruitment of the tip60 acetyltransferase complex to chromatin in late g1.,e2f proteins can either activate or repress transcription. following mitogenic stimulation  repressive e2f4-p130-histone deacetylase complexes dissociate from  while activating species (e2f1  -2  and -3) associate with  target promoters. histones h3 and h4 simultaneously become hyperacetylated  but it remains unclear whether this is a prerequisite or a consequence of e2f binding. here  we show that activating e2f species are required for hyperacetylation of target chromatin in human cells. overexpression of a dominant-negative (dn) e2f1 mutant in serum-stimulated t98g cells blocked all e2f binding  h4 acetylation  and  albeit partially  h3 acetylation. target gene activation and s-phase entry were also blocked by dn e2f1. conversely  ectopic activation of e2f1 rapidly induced h3 and h4 acetylation  demonstrating a direct role for e2f in these events. e2f1 was previously shown to bind the histone acetyltransferases (hats) p300/cbp and pcaf/gcn5. in our hands  ectopically expressed e2f1 also bound the unrelated hat tip60 and induced recruitment of five subunits of the tip60 complex (tip60  trrap  p400  tip48  and tip49) to target promoters in vivo. moreover  e2f-dependent recruitment of tip60 to chromatin occurred in late g(1) following serum stimulation. we speculate that the activities of multiple hat complexes account for e2f-dependent acetylation  transcription  and s-phase entry.
101,genome-wide maps of chromatin state in pluripotent and lineage-committed cells,we report the application of single-molecule-based sequencing technology for high-throughput profiling of histone modifications in mammalian cells. by obtaining over four billion bases of sequence from chromatin immunoprecipitated dna  we generated genome-wide chromatin-state maps of mouse embryonic stem cells  neural progenitor cells and embryonic fibroblasts. we find that lysine 4 and lysine 27 trimethylation effectively discriminates genes that are expressed  poised for expression  or stably repressed  and therefore reflect cell state and lineage potential. lysine 36 trimethylation marks primary coding and non-coding transcripts  facilitating gene annotation. trimethylation of lysine 9 and lysine 20 is detected at satellite  telomeric and active long-terminal repeats  and can spread into proximal unique sequences. lysine 4 and lysine 9 trimethylation marks imprinting control regions. finally  we show that chromatin state can be read in an allele-specific manner by using single nucleotide polymorphisms. this study provides a framework for the application of comprehensive chromatin profiling towards characterization of diverse mammalian cell populations.
103,candida albicans  a distinctive fungal model for cellular aging study,the unicellular eukaryotic organisms represent the popular model systems to understand aging in eukaryotes. candida albicans  a polymorphic fungus  appears to be another distinctive unicellular aging model in addition to the budding yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae and fission yeast schizosaccharomyces pombe. the two types of candida cells  yeast (blastospore) form and hyphal (filamentous) form  have similar replicative lifespan. taking the advantage of morphologic changes  we are able to obtain cells of different ages. old candida cells tend to accumulate glycogen and oxidatively damaged proteins. deletion of the sir2 gene causes a decrease of lifespan  while insertion of an extra copy of sir2 extends lifespan  indicating that like in s. cerevisiae  sir2 regulates cellular aging in c. albicans. interestingly  sir2 deletion does not result in the accumulation of extra-chromosomal rdna molecules  but influences the retention of oxidized proteins in mother cells  suggesting that the extra-chromosomal rdna molecules may not be associated with cellular aging in c. albicans. this novel aging model  which allows efficient large-scale isolation of old cells  may facilitate biochemical characterizations and genomics/proteomics studies of cellular aging  and help to verify the aging pathways observed in other organisms including s. cerevisiae.
105,plasma vitamin d metabolites and risk of colorectal cancer in women.,objective experimental evidence suggests that 1 25-dihydroxyvitamin d and its precursor  25-hydroxyvitamin d [25(oh)d]  may aid in the prevention of colorectal cancer. we therefore examined risk in relation to plasma concentrations of these vitamin d metabolites. methods in a nested case-control study among women in the nurses' health study  we identified 193 colorectal cancer cases  ages 46 to 78 years  diagnosed up to 11 years after blood collection. two controls were matched per case on year of birth and month of blood draw. odds ratios (or) for risk of colorectal cancer were calculated using conditional logistic regression adjusted for body mass index  physical activity  smoking  family history  use of hormone replacement therapy  aspirin use  and dietary intakes. results we found a significant inverse linear association between plasma 25(oh)d and risk of colorectal cancer (p = 0.02). among women in the highest quintile  the or (95% confidence interval) was 0.53 (0.27-1.04). this inverse association remained strong when limited to women > or =60 years at blood collection (p = 0.006) but was not apparent among the younger women (p = 0.70). benefit from higher 25(oh)d concentrations was observed for cancers at the distal colon and rectum (p = 0.02) but was not evident for those at the proximal colon (p = 0.81). in contrast to 25(oh)d  we did not observe an association between 1 25-dihydroxyvitamin d and colorectal cancer  although risk was elevated among the women in the highest quintile if they were also in the lower half of the 25(oh)d distribution (or  2.52; 95% confidence interval  1.04-6.11). conclusion from these results and supporting evidence from previous studies  we conclude that higher plasma levels of 25(oh)d are associated with a lower risk of colorectal cancer in older women  particularly for cancers at the distal colon and rectum.
107,global  regional  and national disability-adjusted life-years (dalys) for 315 diseases and injuries and healthy life expectancy (hale)  1990–2015: a systematic analysis for the global burden of disease study 2015,background healthy life expectancy (hale) and disability-adjusted life-years (dalys) provide summary measures of health across geographies and time that can inform assessments of epidemiological patterns and health system performance  help to prioritise investments in research and development  and monitor progress toward the sustainable development goals (sdgs). we aimed to provide updated hale and dalys for geographies worldwide and evaluate how disease burden changes with development. methods we used results from the global burden of diseases  injuries  and risk factors study 2015 (gbd 2015) for all-cause mortality  cause-specific mortality  and non-fatal disease burden to derive hale and dalys by sex for 195 countries and territories from 1990 to 2015. we calculated dalys by summing years of life lost (ylls) and years of life lived with disability (ylds) for each geography  age group  sex  and year. we estimated hale using the sullivan method  which draws from age-specific death rates and ylds per capita. we then assessed how observed levels of dalys and hale differed from expected trends calculated with the socio-demographic index (sdi)  a composite indicator constructed from measures of income per capita  average years of schooling  and total fertility rate. findings total global dalys remained largely unchanged from 1990 to 2015  with decreases in communicable  neonatal  maternal  and nutritional (group 1) disease dalys offset by increased dalys due to non-communicable diseases (ncds). much of this epidemiological transition was caused by changes in population growth and ageing  but it was accelerated by widespread improvements in sdi that also correlated strongly with the increasing importance of ncds. both total dalys and age-standardised daly rates due to most group 1 causes significantly decreased by 2015  and although total burden climbed for the majority of ncds  age-standardised daly rates due to ncds declined. nonetheless  age-standardised daly rates due to several high-burden ncds (including osteoarthritis  drug use disorders  depression  diabetes  congenital birth defects  and skin  oral  and sense organ diseases) either increased or remained unchanged  leading to increases in their relative ranking in many geographies. from 2005 to 2015  hale at birth increased by an average of 2·9 years (95% uncertainty interval 2·9-3·0) for men and 3·5 years (3·4-3·7) for women  while hale at age 65 years improved by 0·85 years (0·78-0·92) and 1·2 years (1·1-1·3)  respectively. rising sdi was associated with consistently higher hale and a somewhat smaller proportion of life spent with functional health loss; however  rising sdi was related to increases in total disability. many countries and territories in central america and eastern sub-saharan africa had increasingly lower rates of disease burden than expected given their sdi. at the same time  a subset of geographies recorded a growing gap between observed and expected levels of dalys  a trend driven mainly by rising burden due to war  interpersonal violence  and various ncds. interpretation health is improving globally  but this means more populations are spending more time with functional health loss  an absolute expansion of morbidity. the proportion of life spent in ill health decreases somewhat with increasing sdi  a relative compression of morbidity  which supports continued efforts to elevate personal income  improve education  and limit fertility. our analysis of dalys and hale and their relationship to sdi represents a robust framework on which to benchmark geography-specific health performance and sdg progress. country-specific drivers of disease burden  particularly for causes with higher-than-expected dalys  should inform financial and research investments  prevention efforts  health policies  and health system improvement initiatives for all countries along the development continuum. funding bill & melinda gates foundation.
109,genetic tests for ecological and allopatric speciation in anoles on an island archipelago,from darwin's study of the galapagos and wallace's study of indonesia  islands have played an important role in evolutionary investigations  and radiations within archipelagos are readily interpreted as supporting the conventional view of allopatric speciation. even during the ongoing paradigm shift towards other modes of speciation  island radiations  such as the lesser antillean anoles  are thought to exemplify this process. geological and molecular phylogenetic evidence show that  in this archipelago  martinique anoles provide several examples of secondary contact of island species. four precursor island species  with up to 8 mybp divergence  met when their islands coalesced to form the current island of martinique. moreover  adjacent anole populations also show marked adaptation to distinct habitat zonation  allowing both allopatric and ecological speciation to be tested in this system. we take advantage of this opportunity of replicated island coalescence and independent ecological adaptation to carry out an extensive population genetic study of hypervariable neutral nuclear markers to show that even after these very substantial periods of spatial isolation these putative allospecies show less reproductive isolation than conspecific populations in adjacent habitats in all three cases of subsequent island coalescence. the degree of genetic interchange shows that while there is always a significant genetic signature of past allopatry  and this may be quite strong if the selection regime allows  there is no case of complete allopatric speciation  in spite of the strong primae facie case for it. importantly there is greater genetic isolation across the xeric/rainforest ecotone than is associated with any secondary contact. this rejects the development of reproductive isolation in allopatric divergence  but supports the potential for ecological speciation  even though full speciation has not been achieved in this case. it also explains the paucity of anole species in the lesser antilles compared to the greater antilles.
111,familial aphasic episodes: another variant of partial epilepsy with simple inheritance?,we report on a family having partial epilepsy with simple inheritance. the affected members commonly have aphasic episodes with secondary generalization; onset occurred either in adolescence or adulthood. patients' response to medication has varied greatly. no neurological defects or decline in intelligence were found. the case represents another variety of rare familial partial epilepsy with neocortical epilepsy features.
113,anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome–dependent proteolysis of human cyclin a starts at the beginning of mitosis and is not subject to the spindle assembly checkpoint,cyclin a is a stable protein in s and g2 phases  but is destabilized when cells enter mitosis and is almost completely degraded before the metaphase to anaphase transition. microinjection of antibodies against subunits of the anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome (apc/c) or against human cdc20 (fizzy) arrested cells at metaphase and stabilized both cyclins a and b1. cyclin a was efficiently polyubiquitylated by cdc20 or cdh1-activated apc/c in vitro  but in contrast to cyclin b1  the proteolysis of cyclin a was not delayed by the spindle assembly checkpoint. the degradation of cyclin b1 was accelerated by inhibition of the spindle assembly checkpoint. these data suggest that the apc/c is activated as cells enter mitosis and immediately targets cyclin a for degradation  whereas the spindle assembly checkpoint delays the degradation of cyclin b1 until the metaphase to anaphase transition. the “destruction box” (d-box) of cyclin a is 10–20 residues longer than that of cyclin b. overexpression of wild-type cyclin a delayed the metaphase to anaphase transition  whereas expression of cyclin a mutants lacking a d-box arrested cells in anaphase.
115,montelukast and fluticasone compared with salmeterol and fluticasone in protecting against asthma exacerbation in adults: one year  double blind  randomised  comparative trial.,objectives to assess the effect of montelukast versus salmeterol added to inhaled fluticasone propionate on asthma exacerbation in patients whose symptoms are inadequately controlled with fluticasone alone. design and setting a 52 week  two period  double blind  multicentre trial during which patients whose symptoms remained uncontrolled by inhaled corticosteroids were randomised to add montelukast or salmeterol. participants patients (15-72 years; n = 1490) had a clinical history of chronic asthma for > or = 1 year  a baseline forced expiratory volume in one second (fev1) value 50-90% predicted  and a beta agonist improvement of > or = 12% in fev1. main outcome measures the primary end point was the percentage of patients with at least one asthma exacerbation. results 20.1% of the patients in the group receiving montelukast and fluticasone had an asthma exacerbation compared with 19.1% in the group receiving salmeterol and fluticasone; the difference was 1% (95% confidence interval -3.1% to 5.0%). with a risk ratio (montelukast-fluticasone/salmeterol-fluticasone) of 1.05 (0.86 to 1.29)  treatment with montelukast and fluticasone was shown to be non-inferior to treatment with salmeterol and fluticasone. salmeterol and fluticasone significantly increased fev1 before a beta agonist was used and morning peak expiratory flow compared with montelukast and fluticasone (p < or = 0.001)  whereas fev1 after a beta agonist was used and improvements in asthma specific quality of life and nocturnal awakenings were similar between the groups. montelukast and fluticasone significantly (p = 0.011) reduced peripheral blood eosinophil counts compared with salmeterol and fluticasone. both treatments were generally well tolerated. conclusion the addition of montelukast in patients whose symptoms remain uncontrolled by inhaled fluticasone could provide equivalent clinical control to salmeterol.
117,fission yeast and other yeasts as emergent models to unravel cellular aging in eukaryotes.,in the past years  simple organisms such as yeasts and worms have contributed a great deal to aging research. studies pioneered in saccharomyces cerevisiae were useful to elucidate a significant number of molecular mechanisms underlying cellular aging and to discover novel longevity genes. importantly  these genes proved many times to be conserved in multicellular eukaryotes. consequently  such discovery approaches are being extended to other yeast models  such as schizosaccharomyces pombe  candida albicans  kluyveromyces lactis  and cryptococcus neoformans. in fission yeast  researchers have found links between asymmetrical cell division and nutrient signaling pathways with aging. in this review  we discuss the state of knowledge on the mechanisms controlling both replicative and chronological aging in s pombe and the other emergent yeast models.
119,asthma in united states olympic athletes who participated in the 1996 summer games.,background asthma prevalence appears to be increasing in the general population. we sought to determine whether asthma prevalence has also increased in highly competitive athletes. objective our aim was to determine how many united states olympic athletes who were chosen to participate in the 1996 summer olympic games had a past history of asthma or symptoms that suggested asthma or took asthma medications. methods we analyzed responses to questions that asked about allergic and respiratory diseases on the united states olympic committee (usoc) medical history questionnaire that was completed by all athletes who were chosen to represent the us at the 1996 summer olympic games in atlanta. results of the 699 athletes who completed the questionnaire  107 (15.3%) had a previous diagnosis of asthma  and 97 (13.9%) recorded use of an asthma medication at some time in the past. one hundred seventeen (16.7%) reported use of an asthma medication  a diagnosis of asthma  or both (which was our basis for the diagnosis of asthma). seventy-three (10. 4%) of the athletes were currently taking an asthma medication at the time that they were processed in atlanta or noted that they took asthma medications on a permanent or semipermanent basis and were considered to have active asthma. athletes who participated in cycling and mountain biking had the highest prevalence of having been told that they had asthma or had taken an asthma medication in the past (50%). frequency of active asthma varied from 45% of cyclists and emountain bikers to none of the divers and weight lifters. only about 11% of the athletes who participated in the 1984 summer olympic games were reported to have had exercise-induced asthma on the basis of other criteria that may have been less restrictive. on the basis of these less restrictive criteria  more than 20% of the athletes who participated in the 1996 olympic games might have been considered to have had asthma. conclusions asthma appeared to have been more prevalent in athletes who participated in the 1996 summer games than in the general population or in those who participated in the 1984 summer games. this study also suggests that asthma may influence the sport that an athlete chooses.
121,relationship between sloan-kettering virus expression and mouse follicular development,sloan-kettering virus gene product (ski) is an unique nuclear pro-oncoprotein and belongs to the ski/sno proto-oncogene family. ski plays multiple roles in a variety of cell types  it can induce both oncogenic transformation and terminal muscle differentiation when expressed at high levels. ski/snon are important transcription regulators of the transforming growth factor-β (tgf-β) superfamily and function mainly through heterodimers. since tgf-β superfamily are key regulators of follicle development and it has been previously shown that snon is also vital to follicle development  this research was conducted to clarify the relationship between ski expression and mouse follicular development  in ovaries of neonatal and gonadotropin-induced immature mice by immunohistochemical and real-time pcr techniques. in postnatal mice  positive staining for ski was highly detected in oocyte nuclei at postnatal day 1. with follicular development  the localization moved gradually from oocyte nuclei to perinuclear space and the total levels decreased. during the estrous cycle  ski expression was apparent at proestrus and estrus  faint at metestrus  highest at diestrus. after injection of gonadotropin  ski was found in perinuclear space and weak in oocyte nuclei. following the initiation of luteinization  the expression of ski was found in corpus luteum. real-time pcr results also showed that ski mrna expression was opposite to ovulation-related genes during the cumulus expansion  with the development of the follicles  its expression level decreased. ski is expressed in a specific manner during follicle development  ovulation and luteinization. so ski might play essential roles in these processes especially during early follicular development.
123,exosomal levels of mirna-21 from cerebrospinal fluids associated with poor prognosis and tumor recurrence of glioma patients,glioma is a most common type of primary brain tumors. extracellular vesicles  in the form of exosomes  are known to mediate cell-cell communication by transporting cell-derived proteins and nucleic acids  including various micrornas (mirnas). here we examined the cerebrospinal fluid (csf) from patients with recurrent glioma for the levels of cancer-related mirnas  and evaluated the values for prognosis by comparing the measures of csf-  serum-  and exosome-contained mir-21 levels. samples from seventy glioma patients following surgery were compared with those from brain trauma patients as a non-tumor control group. exosomal mir-21 levels in the csf of glioma patients were found significantly higher than in the controls; whereas no difference was detected in serum-derived exosomal mir-21 expression. the csf-derived exosomal mir-21 levels correlated with tumor spinal/ventricle metastasis and the recurrence with anatomical site preference. from additional 198 glioma tissue samples  we verified that mir-21 levels associated with tumor grade of diagnosis and negatively correlated with the median values of patient overall survival time. we further used a lentiviral inhibitor to suppress mir-21 expression in u251 cells. the results showed that the levels of mir-21 target genes of pten  reck and pdcd4 were up-regulated at protein levels. therefore  we concluded that the exosomal mir-21 levels could be demonstrated as a promising indicator for glioma diagnosis and prognosis  particularly with values to predict tumor recurrence or metastasis.
125,histone deacetylases (hdacs) in frontotemporal lobar degeneration.,aims frontotemporal lobar degeneration (ftld) is clinically and pathologically heterogeneous. although associated with variations in mapt  grn and c9orf72  the pathogenesis of these  and of other nongenetic  forms of ftld  remains unknown. epigenetic factors such as histone regulation by histone deacetylases (hdac) may play a role in the dysregulation of transcriptional activity  thought to underpin the neurodegenerative process. methods the distribution and intensity of hdacs 4  5 and 6 was assessed semi-quantitatively in immunostained sections of temporal cortex with hippocampus  and cerebellum  from 33 pathologically confirmed cases of ftld and 27 controls. results we found a significantly greater intensity of cytoplasmic immunostaining for hdac4 and hdac6 in granule cells of the dentate gyrus in cases of ftld overall compared with controls  and specifically in cases of ftld tau-picks compared with ftld tau-mapt and controls. no differences were noted between ftld-tdp subtypes  or between the different genetic and nongenetic forms of ftld. no changes were seen in hdac5 in any ftld or control cases. conclusions dysregulation of hdac4 and/or hdac6 could play a role in the pathogenesis of ftld-tau associated with pick bodies  although their lack of immunostaining implies that such changes do not contribute directly to the formation of pick bodies.
127,the transcriptional program of sporulation in budding yeast,diploid cells of budding yeast produce haploid cells through the developmental program of sporulation  which consists of meiosis and spore morphogenesis. dna microarrays containing nearly every yeast gene were used to assay changes in gene expression during sporulation. at least seven distinct temporal patterns of induction were observed. the transcription factor ndt80 appeared to be important for induction of a large group of genes at the end of meiotic prophase. consensus sequences known or proposed to be responsible for temporal regulation could be identified solely from analysis of sequences of coordinately expressed genes. the temporal expression pattern provided clues to potential functions of hundreds of previously uncharacterized genes  some of which have vertebrate homologs that may function during gametogenesis.
129,innate lymphoid cells mediate influenza-induced airway hyper-reactivity independently of adaptive immunity,patients with asthma  a major public health problem  are at high risk for serious disease from influenza virus infection  but the pathogenic mechanisms by which influenza a causes airway disease and asthma are not fully known. we show here in a mouse model that influenza infection acutely induced airway hyper-reactivity (ahr)  a cardinal feature of asthma  independently of t helper type 2 (th2) cells and adaptive immunity. instead  influenza infection induced ahr through a previously unknown pathway that required the interleukin 13 (il-13)–il-33 axis and cells of the non-t cell  non-b cell innate lymphoid type called 'natural helper cells'. infection with influenza a virus  which activates the nlrp3 inflammasome  resulted in much more production of il-33 by alveolar macrophages  which in turn activated natural helper cells producing substantial il-13.
131,intermittent prophylaxis with oral truvada protects macaques from rectal shiv infection.,hiv continues to spread globally  mainly through sexual contact. despite advances in treatment and care  preventing transmission with vaccines or microbicides has proven difficult. a promising strategy to avoid transmission is prophylactic treatment with antiretroviral drugs before exposure to hiv. clinical trials evaluating the efficacy of daily treatment with the reverse transcriptase inhibitors tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (tdf) or truvada (tdf plus emtricitabine) are under way. we hypothesized that intermittent prophylactic treatment with long-acting antiviral drugs would be as effective as daily dosing in blocking the earliest stages of viral replication and preventing mucosal transmission. we tested this hypothesis by intermittently giving prophylactic truvada to macaque monkeys and then exposing them rectally to simian-human immunodeficiency virus (shiv) once a week for 14 weeks. a simple regimen with an oral dose of truvada given 1  3  or 7 days before exposure followed by a second dose 2 hours after exposure was as protective as daily drug administration  possibly because of the long intracellular persistence of the drugs. in addition  a two-dose regimen initiated 2 hours before or after virus exposure was effective  and full protection was obtained by doubling the truvada concentration in both doses. we saw no protection if the first dose was delayed until 24 hours after exposure  underscoring the importance of blocking initial replication in the mucosa. our results show that intermittent prophylactic treatment with an antiviral drug can be highly effective in preventing shiv infection  with a wide window of protection. they strengthen the possibility of developing feasible  cost-effective strategies to prevent hiv transmission in humans.
133,pharmacological correction of a defect in pparγ signaling ameliorates disease severity in cftr-deficient mice,cystic fibrosis is caused by mutations in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (encoded by cftr) that impair its role as an apical chloride channel that supports bicarbonate transport. individuals with cystic fibrosis show retained  thickened mucus that plugs airways and obstructs luminal organs as well as numerous other abnormalities that include inflammation of affected organs  alterations in lipid metabolism and insulin resistance. here we show that colonic epithelial cells and whole lung tissue from cftr-deficient mice show a defect in peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (ppar-gamma  encoded by pparg) function that contributes to a pathological program of gene expression. lipidomic analysis of colonic epithelial cells suggests that this defect results in part from reduced amounts of the endogenous ppar-gamma ligand 15-keto-prostaglandin e(2) (15-keto-pge(2)). treatment of cftr-deficient mice with the synthetic ppar-gamma ligand rosiglitazone partially normalizes the altered gene expression pattern associated with cftr deficiency and reduces disease severity. rosiglitazone has no effect on chloride secretion in the colon  but it increases expression of the genes encoding carbonic anhydrases 4 and 2 (car4 and car2)  increases bicarbonate secretion and reduces mucus retention. these studies reveal a reversible defect in ppar-gamma signaling in cftr-deficient cells that can be pharmacologically corrected to ameliorate the severity of the cystic fibrosis phenotype in mice.
135,coding of sweet  bitter  and umami tastes different receptor cells sharing similar signaling pathways,mammals can taste a wide repertoire of chemosensory stimuli. two unrelated families of receptors (t1rs and t2rs) mediate responses to sweet  amino acids  and bitter compounds. here  we demonstrate that knockouts of trpm5  a taste trp ion channel  or plcbeta2  a phospholipase c selectively expressed in taste tissue  abolish sweet  amino acid  and bitter taste reception  but do not impact sour or salty tastes. therefore  despite relying on different receptors  sweet  amino acid  and bitter transduction converge on common signaling molecules. using plcbeta2 taste-blind animals  we then examined a fundamental question in taste perception: how taste modalities are encoded at the cellular level. mice engineered to rescue plcbeta2 function exclusively in bitter-receptor expressing cells respond normally to bitter tastants but do not taste sweet or amino acid stimuli. thus  bitter is encoded independently of sweet and amino acids  and taste receptor cells are not broadly tuned across these modalities.
137,myosin light chain–activating phosphorylation sites are required for oogenesis in drosophila ,the drosophila spaghetti squash ( sqh ) gene encodes the regulatory myosin light chain (rmlc) of nonmuscle myosin ii. biochemical analysis of vertebrate nonmuscle and smooth muscle myosin ii has established that phosphorylation of certain amino acids of the rmlc greatly increases the actin-dependent myosin atpase and motor activity of myosin in vitro. we have assessed the in vivo importance of these sites  which in drosophila correspond to serine-21 and threonine-20  by creating a series of transgenes in which these specific amino acids were altered. the phenotypes of the transgenes were examined in an otherwise null mutant background during oocyte development in drosophila females. germ line cystoblasts entirely lacking a functional sqh gene show severe defects in proliferation and cytokinesis. the ring canals  cytoplasmic bridges linking the oocyte to the nurse cells in the egg chamber  are abnormal  suggesting a role of myosin ii in their establishment or maintenance. in addition  numerous aggregates of myosin heavy chain accumulate in the sqh null cells. mutant sqh transgene sqh -a20  a21 in which both serine-21 and threonine-20 have been replaced by alanines behaves in most respects identically to the null allele in this system  with the exception that no heavy chain aggregates are found. in contrast  expression of sqh -a21  in which only the primary phosphorylation target serine-21 site is altered  partially restores functionality to germ line myosin ii  allowing cystoblast division and oocyte development  albeit with some cytokinesis failure  defects in the rapid cytoplasmic transport from nurse cells to cytoplasm characteristic of late stage oogenesis  and some damaged ring canals. substituting a glutamate for the serine-21 (mutant sqh -e21) allows oogenesis to be completed with minimal defects  producing eggs that can develop normally to produce fertile adults. flies expressing sqh -a20  in which only the secondary phosphorylation site is absent  appear to be entirely wild type. taken together  this genetic evidence argues that phosphorylation at serine-21 is critical to rmlc function in activating myosin ii in vivo  but that the function can be partially provided by phosphorylation at threonine-20.
139,coronary bypass graft patency in patients with diabetes in the bypass angioplasty revascularization investigation (bari).,background few studies have compared long-term status of bypass grafts between patients with and without diabetes  and uncertainty exists as to whether diabetes independently predicts poor clinical outcome after cabg. methods and results among 1526 patients in bari who underwent cabg as initial revascularization  99 of 292 (34%) with treated diabetes mellitus (tdm) (those on insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents) and 469 of 1234 (38%) without tdm had follow-up angiography. angiograms with the longest interval from initial surgery and before any percutaneous graft intervention (mean 3.9 years) were reviewed. an average of 3.0 grafts were placed at initial cabg for patients with tdm (n=297; internal mammary artery [ima]  33%) and 2.9 grafts for patients without tdm (n=1347; ima  34%). patients with tdm were more likely than those without to have small (<1.5 mm) grafted distal vessels (29% versus 22%) and vessels of poor quality (9% versus 6%). on follow-up angiography  89% of ima grafts were free of stenoses > or =50% among patients with tdm versus 85% among patients without tdm (p=0.23). for vein grafts  the corresponding percentages were 71% versus 75% (p=0.40). after statistical adjustment  tdm was unrelated to having a graft stenosis > or =50% (adjusted odds ratio  0.87; 95% ci  0.58 to 1.32). conclusions despite diabetic patients' having smaller distal vessels and vessels judged to be of poorer quality  diabetes does not appear to adversely affect patency of ima or vein grafts over an average of 4-year follow-up. previously observed differences in survival between cabg-treated patients with and without diabetes may be largely a result of differential risk of mortality from noncardiac causes.
141,aging  habitual exercise  and dynamic arterial compliance.,background a reduction in compliance of the large-sized cardiothoracic (central) arteries is an independent risk factor for the development of cardiovascular disease with advancing age. methods and results we determined the role of habitual exercise on the age-related decrease in central arterial compliance by using both cross-sectional and interventional approaches. first  we studied 151 healthy men aged 18 to 77 years: 54 were sedentary  45 were recreationally active  and 53 were endurance exercise-trained. central arterial compliance (simultaneous b-mode ultrasound and arterial applanation tonometry on the common carotid artery) was lower (p:<0.05) in middle-aged and older men than in young men in all 3 groups. there were no significant differences between sedentary and recreationally active men at any age. however  arterial compliance in the endurance-trained middle-aged and older men was 20% to 35% higher than in the 2 less active groups (p:<0.01). as such  age-related differences in central arterial compliance were smaller in the endurance-trained men than in the sedentary and recreationally active men. second  we studied 20 middle-aged and older (53+/-2 years) sedentary healthy men before and after a 3-month aerobic exercise intervention (primarily walking). regular exercise increased central arterial compliance (p:<0.01) to levels similar to those of the middle-aged and older endurance-trained men. these effects were independent of changes in body mass  adiposity  arterial blood pressure  or maximal oxygen consumption. conclusions regular aerobic-endurance exercise attenuates age-related reductions in central arterial compliance and restores levels in previously sedentary healthy middle-aged and older men. this may be one mechanism by which habitual exercise lowers the risk of cardiovascular disease in this population.
143,negative effect of the transcriptional activator gal4,the yeast transcriptional activator gal4 binds specific sites on dna to activate transcription of adjacent genes1–5. the distinct activating regions of gal4 are rich in acidic residues and it has been suggested that these regions interact with another protein component of the transcriptional machinery (such as the tata-binding protein or rna polymerase ii) while the dna-binding region serves to position the activating region near the gene6 7 8. here we show that various gal4 derivatives  when expressed at high levels in yeast  inhibit transcription of certain genes lacking gal4 binding sites  that more efficient activators inhibit more strongly and that inhibition does not depend on the dna-binding domain. we suggest that this inhibition  which we call squelching  reflects titration of a transcription factor by the activating region of gal4.
145,the relation between past exposure to fine particulate air pollution and prevalent anxiety: observational cohort study,objective to determine whether higher past exposure to particulate air pollution is associated with prevalent high symptoms of anxiety. design observational cohort study. setting nurses' health study. participants 71 271 women enrolled in the nurses' health study residing throughout the contiguous united states who had valid estimates on exposure to particulate matter for at least one exposure period of interest and data on anxiety symptoms. main outcome measures meaningfully high symptoms of anxiety  defined as a score of 6 points or greater on the phobic anxiety subscale of the crown-crisp index  administered in 2004. results the 71 271 eligible women were aged between 57 and 85 years (mean 70 years) at the time of assessment of anxiety symptoms  with a prevalence of high anxiety symptoms of 15%. exposure to particulate matter was characterized using estimated average exposure to particulate matter <2.5 μm in diameter (pm2.5) and 2.5 to 10 μm in diameter (pm2.5-10) in the one month  three months  six months  one year  and 15 years prior to assessment of anxiety symptoms  and residential distance to the nearest major road two years prior to assessment. significantly increased odds of high anxiety symptoms were observed with higher exposure to pm2.5 for multiple averaging periods (for example  odds ratio per 10 µg/m(3) increase in prior one month average pm2.5: 1.12  95% confidence interval 1.06 to 1.19; in prior 12 month average pm2.5: 1.15  1.06 to 1.26). models including multiple exposure windows suggested short term averaging periods were more relevant than long term averaging periods. there was no association between anxiety and exposure to pm2.5-10. residential proximity to major roads was not related to anxiety symptoms in a dose dependent manner. conclusions exposure to fine particulate matter (pm2.5) was associated with high symptoms of anxiety  with more recent exposures potentially more relevant than more distant exposures. research evaluating whether reductions in exposure to ambient pm2.5 would reduce the population level burden of clinically relevant symptoms of anxiety is warranted.
147,isolation from african sykes' monkeys (cercopithecus mitis) of a lentivirus related to human and simian immunodeficiency viruses.,analysis of serum samples from 100 wild-caught or colony-born sykes' monkeys (cercopithecus mitis) in kenya revealed that 59 animals had antibodies cross-reactive to human immunodeficiency virus type 2 (hiv-2) and to simian immunodeficiency viruses (sivs). a lentivirus  designated sivsyk  was isolated from five of six seropositive asymptomatic sykes' monkeys  but in four cases isolation was possible only after depletion of cd8+ lymphocytes and cocultivation of the cd4(+)-enriched cell population with peripheral blood mononuclear cells from seronegative sykes' monkeys. sivsyk resembled other sivs and hivs morphologically  had an mg2(+)-dependent reverse transcriptase enzyme  and replicated in and was cytopathic for cemx174 and sup-t1 cells. sivsyk differred substantially from other sivs  however  in that it failed to replicate in normal human  mangabey  and macaque peripheral blood mononuclear cells and serum from seropositive sykes' monkeys immunoprecipitated env antigens from hiv-1 as well as from hiv-2  sivsmm  and sivagm. these data demonstrate a high prevalence of natural infection in sykes' monkeys in kenya with a lentivirus that appears to be unique with respect to its host range and antigenic cross-reactivity.
149,cerebral organoids model human brain development and microcephaly,the complexity of the human brain has made it difficult to study many brain disorders in model organisms  highlighting the need for an in vitro model of human brain development. here we have developed a human pluripotent stem cell-derived three-dimensional organoid culture system  termed cerebral organoids  that develop various discrete  although interdependent  brain regions. these include a cerebral cortex containing progenitor populations that organize and produce mature cortical neuron subtypes. furthermore  cerebral organoids are shown to recapitulate features of human cortical development  namely characteristic progenitor zone organization with abundant outer radial glial stem cells. finally  we use rna interference and patient-specific induced pluripotent stem cells to model microcephaly  a disorder that has been difficult to recapitulate in mice. we demonstrate premature neuronal differentiation in patient organoids  a defect that could help to explain the disease phenotype. together  these data show that three-dimensional organoids can recapitulate development and disease even in this most complex human tissue.
151,metastatic colonization requires the repression of the epithelial-mesenchymal transition inducer prrx1.,the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (emt) is required in the embryo for the formation of tissues for which cells originate far from their final destination. carcinoma cells hijack this program for tumor dissemination. the relevance of the emt in cancer is still debated because it is unclear how these migratory cells colonize distant tissues to form macrometastases. we show that the homeobox factor prrx1 is an emt inducer conferring migratory and invasive properties. the loss of prrx1 is required for cancer cells to metastasize in vivo  which revert to the epithelial phenotype concomitant with the acquisition of stem cell properties. thus  unlike the classical emt transcription factors  prrx1 uncouples emt and stemness  and is a biomarker associated with patient survival and lack of metastasis.
153,investigating survival prognosis of glioblastoma using evolutional properties of gene networks,in recent years  there has been widespread interest and a large number of publications on the application of graph theory techniques into constructing and analyzing biologically-informed gene networks from cancer cell line data sets. current research efforts have predominantly looked at an overall static  topological  representation of the network  and have not investigated the application of graph theoretical techniques to evolutionary investigations of cancer. a number of these studies have used graph theory metrics  such as degree  betweenness  and closeness centrality  to identify important hub genes in these networks. however  these have not fully investigated the importance of genes across the different stages of the disease. previous human glioblastoma publications have identified four subtypes of glioblastoma in adults  based on signature genes. in one such publication  verhaak et al. found that the subtypes correspond to a narrow median survival range  from 11.3 months for the most aggressive subtype  to 13.1 months for the least aggressive one. in this work  we present an evolutionary graph theory study of glioblastoma based on survival data categorization  confirming genes associated with different survival times identified using established graph theory metrics. the work is extending the application of graph theory approaches to evolutionary studies of cancer cell line data.
155,reliability of patient responses in pay for performance schemes: analysis of national general practitioner patient survey data in england,objective to assess the robustness of patient responses to a new national survey of patient experience as a basis for providing financial incentives to doctors. design analysis of the representativeness of the respondents to the gp patient survey compared with those who were sampled (5.5 million patients registered with 8273 general practices in england in january 2009) and with the general population. analysis of non-response bias looked at the relation between practice response rates and scores on the survey. analysis of the reliability of the survey estimated the proportion of the variance of practice scores attributable to true differences between practices. results the overall response rate was 38.2% (2.2 million responses)  which is comparable to that in surveys using similar methodology in the uk. men  young adults  and people living in deprived areas were under-represented among respondents. however  for questions related to pay for performance  there was no systematic association between response rates and questionnaire scores. two questions which triggered payments to general practitioners were reliable measures of practice performance  with average practice-level reliability coefficients of 93.2% and 95.0%. less than 3% and 0.5% of practices had fewer than the number of responses required to achieve conventional reliability levels of 90% and 70%. a change to the payment formula in 2009 resulted in an increase in the average impact of random variation in patient scores on payments to general practitioners compared with payments made in 2007 and 2008. conclusions there is little evidence to support the concern of some general practitioners that low response rates and selective non-response bias have led to systematic unfairness in payments attached to questionnaire scores. the study raises issues relating to the validity and reliability of payments based on patient surveys and provides lessons for the uk and for other countries considering the use of patient experience as part of pay for performance schemes.
157,transgenic interleukin 10 prevents induction of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis ,the effectiveness of interleukin 10 (il-10) in the treatment of autoimmune-mediated central nervous system inflammation is controversial. studies of the model system  experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (eae)  using various routes  regimens  and delivery methods of il-10 suggest that these variables may affect its immunoregulatory function. to study the influence of these factors on il-10 regulation of eae pathogenesis  we have analyzed transgenic mice expressing human il-10 (hil-10) transgene under the control of a class ii major histocompatibility complex (mhc) promoter. the hil-10 transgenic mice are highly resistant to eae induced by active immunization  and this resistance appears to be mediated by suppression of autoreactive t cell function. myelin-reactive t helper 1 cells are induced but nonpathogenic in the il-10 transgenic mice. antibody depletion confirmed that eae resistance is dependent on the presence of the transgenic il-10. mice expressing the hil-10 transgene but not the endogenous murine il-10 gene demonstrated that transgenic il-10 from mhc class ii–expressing cells is sufficient to block induction of eae. this study demonstrates that il-10 can prevent eae completely if present at appropriate levels and times during disease induction.
159,specific inhibition of cyclin-dependent kinase 4/6 by pd 0332991 and associated antitumor activity in human tumor xenografts.,pd 0332991 is a highly specific inhibitor of cyclin-dependent kinase 4 (cdk4) (ic50  0.011 micromol/l) and cdk6 (ic50  0.016 micromol/l)  having no activity against a panel of 36 additional protein kinases. it is a potent antiproliferative agent against retinoblastoma (rb)-positive tumor cells in vitro  inducing an exclusive g1 arrest  with a concomitant reduction of phospho-ser780/ser795 on the rb protein. oral administration of pd 0332991 to mice bearing the colo-205 human colon carcinoma produces marked tumor regression. therapeutic doses of pd 0332991 cause elimination of phospho-rb and the proliferative marker ki-67 in tumor tissue and down-regulation of genes under the transcriptional control of e2f. the results indicate that inhibition of cdk4/6 alone is sufficient to cause tumor regression and a net reduction in tumor burden in some tumors.
161,effect of previous miscarriage on depressive symptoms during subsequent pregnancy and postpartum in the first baby study,our objective was to test the hypothesis that nulliparous women with a history of miscarriage have an increased risk of depression during late pregnancy  and at 1  6  and 12 months postpartum compared to women without a history of miscarriage. we conducted secondary analysis of a longitudinal cohort study  the first baby study  and compared 448 pregnant women with a history of miscarriage to 2 343 pregnant women without a history of miscarriage on risk of probable depression (score >12 on the edinburgh postnatal depression scale). logistic regression models were used to estimate odds ratios at each time point and generalized estimating equations were used to obtain estimates in longitudinal analysis. women with a history of miscarriage were not more likely than woman without a history of miscarriage to score in the probable depression range during the third trimester or at 6 or 12 months postpartum but were more likely at 1 month postpartum  after adjustment for sociodemographic factors (or 1.66  95 % ci 1.03–2.69). women with a history of miscarriage may be more vulnerable to depression during the first month postpartum than women without prior miscarriage  but this effect does not appear to persist beyond this time period. we support the promotion of awareness surrounding this issue and recommend that research is planned to identify risk factors that may position a woman with a history of miscarriage to be at higher risk for depression.
163,summary,steroid receptor rna activator (sra)  the only known rna coactivator  augments transactivation by nuclear receptors (nrs). we identified slirp (sra stem-loop interacting rna binding protein) binding to a functional substructure of sra  str7. slirp is expressed in normal and tumor tissues  contains an rna recognition motif (rrm)  represses nr transactivation in a sra- and rrm-dependent manner  augments the effect of tamoxifen  and modulates association of src-1 with sra. sharp  a rrm-containing corepressor  also binds str7  augmenting repression with slirp. slirp colocalizes with skip (chr14q24.3)  another nr coregulator  and reduces skip-potentiated nr signaling. slirp is recruited to endogenous promoters (ps2 and metallothionein)  the latter in a sra-dependent manner  while ncor promoter recruitment is dependent on slirp. the majority of the endogenous slirp resides in the mitochondria. our data demonstrate that slirp modulates nr transactivation  suggest it may regulate mitochondrial function  and provide mechanistic insight into interactions between sra  slirp  src-1  and ncor.
165,the evolution of fox genes and their role in development and disease,the forkhead box (fox) family of transcription factors  which originated in unicellular eukaryotes  has expanded over time through multiple duplication events  and sometimes through gene loss  to over 40 members in mammals. fox genes have evolved to acquire a specialized function in many key biological processes. mutations in fox genes have a profound effect on human disease  causing phenotypes as varied as cancer  glaucoma and language disorders. we summarize the salient features of the evolution of the fox gene family and highlight the diverse contribution of various fox subfamilies to developmental processes  from organogenesis to speech acquisition.
167,failure of cell cleavage induces senescence in tetraploid primary cells,tetraploidy can arise from various mitotic or cleavage defects in mammalian cells  and inheritance of multiple centrosomes induces aneuploidy when tetraploid cells continue to cycle. arrest of the tetraploid cell cycle is therefore potentially a critical cellular control. we report here that primary rat embryo fibroblasts (ref52) and human foreskin fibroblasts become senescent in tetraploid g1 after drug- or small interfering rna (sirna)-induced failure of cell cleavage. in contrast  t-antigen-transformed ref52 and p53+/+ hct116 tumor cells rapidly become aneuploid by continuing to cycle after cleavage failure. tetraploid primary cells quickly become quiescent  as determined by loss of the ki-67 proliferation marker and of the fluorescent ubiquitination-based cell cycle indicator/late cell cycle marker geminin. arrest is not due to dna damage  as the γ-h2ax dna damage marker remains at control levels after tetraploidy induction. arrested tetraploid cells finally become senescent  as determined by sa-β-galactosidase activity. tetraploid arrest is dependent on p16ink4a expression  as sirna suppression of p16ink4a bypasses tetraploid arrest  permitting primary cells to become aneuploid. we conclude that tetraploid primary cells can become senescent without dna damage and that induction of senescence is critical to tetraploidy arrest.
169,the mitochondrial rna-binding protein grsf1 localizes to rna granules and is required for posttranscriptional mitochondrial gene expression.,rna-binding proteins are at the heart of posttranscriptional gene regulation  coordinating the processing  storage  and handling of cellular rnas. we show here that grsf1  previously implicated in the binding and selective translation of influenza mrnas  is targeted to mitochondria where it forms granules that colocalize with foci of newly synthesized mtrna next to mitochondrial nucleoids. grsf1 preferentially binds rnas transcribed from three contiguous genes on the light strand of mtdna  the nd6 mrna  and the long noncoding rnas for cytb and nd5  each of which contains multiple consensus binding sequences. rnai-mediated knockdown of grsf1 leads to alterations in mitochondrial rna stability  abnormal loading of mrnas and lncrnas on the mitochondrial ribosome  and impaired ribosome assembly. this results in a specific protein synthesis defect and a failure to assemble normal amounts of the oxidative phosphorylation complexes. these data implicate grsf1 as a key regulator of posttranscriptional mitochondrial gene expression.
171,capsule endoscopy in acute upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage: a prospective cohort study.,background and study aims capsule endoscopy may play a role in the evaluation of patients presenting with acute upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage in the emergency department. patients and methods we evaluated adults with acute upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage presenting to the emergency departments of two academic centers. patients ingested a wireless video capsule  which was followed immediately by a nasogastric tube aspiration and later by esophagogastroduodenoscopy (egd). we compared capsule endoscopy with nasogastric tube aspiration for determination of the presence of blood  and with egd for discrimination of the source of bleeding  identification of peptic/inflammatory lesions  safety  and patient satisfaction. results the study enrolled 49 patients (32 men  17 women; mean age 58.3 ± 19 years)  but three patients did not complete the capsule endoscopy and five were intolerant of the nasogastric tube. blood was detected in the upper gastrointestinal tract significantly more often by capsule endoscopy (15 /18 [83.3 %]) than by nasogastric tube aspiration (6 /18 [33.3 %]; p = 0.035). there was no significant difference in the identification of peptic/inflammatory lesions between capsule endoscopy (27 /40 [67.5 %]) and egd (35 /40 [87.5 %]; p = 0.10  or 0.39 95 %ci 0.11 - 1.15). capsule endoscopy reached the duodenum in 45 /46 patients (98 %). one patient (2.2 %) had self-limited shortness of breath and one (2.2 %) had coughing on capsule ingestion. conclusions in an emergency department setting  capsule endoscopy appears feasible and safe in people presenting with acute upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage. capsule endoscopy identifies gross blood in the upper gastrointestinal tract  including the duodenum  significantly more often than nasogastric tube aspiration and identifies inflammatory lesions  as well as egd. capsule endoscopy may facilitate patient triage and earlier endoscopy  but should not be considered a substitute for egd.
173,molecular basis for target rna recognition and cleavage by human risc,the rna-induced silencing complex (risc) is a ribonucleoprotein particle composed of a single-stranded short interfering rna (sirna) and an endonucleolytically active argonaute protein  capable of cleaving mrnas complementary to the sirna. the mechanism by which risc cleaves a target rna is well understood  however it remains enigmatic how risc finds its target rna. here  we show  both in vitro and in vivo  that the accessibility of the target site correlates directly with the efficiency of cleavage  demonstrating that risc is unable to unfold structured rna. in the course of target recognition  risc transiently contacts single-stranded rna nonspecifically and promotes sirna-target rna annealing. furthermore  the 5' part of the sirna within risc creates a thermodynamic threshold that determines the stable association of risc and the target rna. we therefore provide mechanistic insights by revealing features of risc and target rnas that are crucial to achieve efficiency and specificity in rna interference.
175,cold exposure promotes atherosclerotic plaque growth and instability via ucp1-dependent lipolysis,molecular mechanisms underlying the cold-associated high cardiovascular risk remain unknown. here  we show that the cold-triggered food-intake-independent lipolysis significantly increased plasma levels of small low-density lipoprotein (ldl) remnants  leading to accelerated development of atherosclerotic lesions in mice. in two genetic mouse knockout models (apolipoprotein e(-/-) [apoe(-/-)] and ldl receptor(-/-) [ldlr(-/-)] mice)  persistent cold exposure stimulated atherosclerotic plaque growth by increasing lipid deposition. furthermore  marked increase of inflammatory cells and plaque-associated microvessels were detected in the cold-acclimated apoe(-/-) and ldlr(-/-) mice  leading to plaque instability. deletion of uncoupling protein 1 (ucp1)  a key mitochondrial protein involved in thermogenesis in brown adipose tissue (bat)  in the apoe(-/-) strain completely protected mice from the cold-induced atherosclerotic lesions. cold acclimation markedly reduced plasma levels of adiponectin  and systemic delivery of adiponectin protected apoe(-/-) mice from plaque development. these findings provide mechanistic insights on low-temperature-associated cardiovascular risks.
177,alcohol sales and risk of serious assault,background alcohol is a contributing cause of unintentional injuries  such as motor vehicle crashes. prior research on the association between alcohol use and violent injury was limited to survey-based data  and the inclusion of cases from a single trauma centre  without adequate controls. beyond these limitations was the inability of prior researchers to comprehensively capture most alcohol sales. in ontario  most alcohol is sold through retail outlets run by the provincial government  and hospitals are financed under a provincial health care system. we assessed the risk of being hospitalized due to assault in association with retail alcohol sales across ontario. methods and findings we performed a population-based case-crossover analysis of all persons aged 13 years and older hospitalized for assault in ontario from 1 april 2002 to 1 december 2004. on the day prior to each assault case's hospitalization  the volume of alcohol sold at the store in closest proximity to the victim's home was compared to the volume of alcohol sold at the same store 7 d earlier. conditional logistic regression analysis was used to determine the associated relative risk (rr) of assault per 1 000 l higher daily sales of alcohol. of the 3 212 persons admitted to hospital for assault  nearly 25% were between the ages of 13 and 20 y  and 83% were male. a total of 1 150 assaults (36%) involved the use of a sharp or blunt weapon  and 1 532 (48%) arose during an unarmed brawl or fight. for every 1 000 l more of alcohol sold per store per day  the relative risk of being hospitalized for assault was 1.13 (95% confidence interval [ci] 1.02-1.26). the risk was accentuated for males (1.18  95% ci 1.05-1.33)  youth aged 13 to 20 y (1.21  95% ci 0.99-1.46)  and those in urban areas (1.19  95% ci 1.06-1.35). conclusions the risk of being a victim of serious assault increases with alcohol sales  especially among young urban men. akin to reducing the risk of driving while impaired  consideration should be given to novel methods of preventing alcohol-related violence.
179,pseudouridine profiling reveals regulated mrna pseudouridylation in yeast and human cells,post-transcriptional modification of rna nucleosides occurs in all living organisms. pseudouridine  the most abundant modified nucleoside in non-coding rnas  enhances the function of transfer rna and ribosomal rna by stabilizing the rna structure. messenger rnas were not known to contain pseudouridine  but artificial pseudouridylation dramatically affects mrna function--it changes the genetic code by facilitating non-canonical base pairing in the ribosome decoding centre. however  without evidence of naturally occurring mrna pseudouridylation  its physiological relevance was unclear. here we present a comprehensive analysis of pseudouridylation in saccharomyces cerevisiae and human rnas using pseudo-seq  a genome-wide  single-nucleotide-resolution method for pseudouridine identification. pseudo-seq accurately identifies known modification sites as well as many novel sites in non-coding rnas  and reveals hundreds of pseudouridylated sites in mrnas. genetic analysis allowed us to assign most of the new modification sites to one of seven conserved pseudouridine synthases  pus1-4  6  7 and 9. notably  the majority of pseudouridines in mrna are regulated in response to environmental signals  such as nutrient deprivation in yeast and serum starvation in human cells. these results suggest a mechanism for the rapid and regulated rewiring of the genetic code through inducible mrna modifications. our findings reveal unanticipated roles for pseudouridylation and provide a resource for identifying the targets of pseudouridine synthases implicated in human disease.
181,differential distribution of il28b.rs12979860 single-nucleotide polymorphism among egyptian healthcare workers with and without a hepatitis c virus-specific cellular immune response,the cc genotype of the interleukin (il)-28b.rs12979860 gene has been associated with spontaneous hepatitis c virus (hcv) clearance and treatment response. the distribution and correlation of an il28b.rs12979860 single-nucleotide polymorphism (snp) with hcv-specific cell-mediated immune (cmi) responses among egyptian healthcare workers (hcws) is not known. we determined this relationship in 402 hcws who serve a patient cohort with ~85 % hcv prevalence. we enrolled 402 hcws in four groups: group 1 (n = 258)  seronegative aviremic subjects; group 2 (n = 25)  seronegative viremic subjects; group 3 (n = 41)  subjects with spontaneously resolved hcv infection; and group 4 (n = 78)  chronic hcv patients. all subjects were tested for an hcv-specific cmi response using an ex-vivo interferon-gamma (ifnγ) elispot assay with nine hcv genotype-4a overlapping 15-mer peptide pools corresponding to all of the hcv proteins. all subjects were tested for il28b.rs12979860 snp by real-time pcr. an hcv-specific cmi was demonstrated in ~27 % of the seronegative aviremic hcws (group 1)  suggesting clearance of infection after low-level exposure to hcv. the frequency of il28b.rs12979860 c allele homozygosity in the four groups was 49 %  48 %  49 %  and 23 %  while that of the t allele was 14 %  16 %  12 and 19 %  respectively  suggesting differential distributions among subjects with different hcv status. as reported  il28b.rs12979860 predicted the outcome of hcv infection (p < 0.05)  but we did not find any relationship between the il28b genotypes and the outcome of hcv-specific cmi responses in the four groups (p > 0.05). the data show differential il28b.rs12979860 genotype distribution among egyptian hcws with different hcv status and could not predict the outcome of hcv-specific cmi responses.
183,electromagnetic interference from radio frequency identification inducing potentially hazardous incidents in critical care medical equipment.,context health care applications of autoidentification technologies  such as radio frequency identification (rfid)  have been proposed to improve patient safety and also the tracking and tracing of medical equipment. however  electromagnetic interference (emi) by rfid on medical devices has never been reported. objective to assess and classify incidents of emi by rfid on critical care equipment. design and setting without a patient being connected  emi by 2 rfid systems (active 125 khz and passive 868 mhz) was assessed under controlled conditions during may 2006  in the proximity of 41 medical devices (in 17 categories  22 different manufacturers) at the academic medical centre  university of amsterdam  amsterdam  the netherlands. assessment took place according to an international test protocol. incidents of emi were classified according to a critical care adverse events scale as hazardous  significant  or light. results in 123 emi tests (3 per medical device)  rfid induced 34 emi incidents: 22 were classified as hazardous  2 as significant  and 10 as light. the passive 868-mhz rfid signal induced a higher number of incidents (26 incidents in 41 emi tests; 63%) compared with the active 125-khz rfid signal (8 incidents in 41 emi tests; 20%); difference 44% (95% confidence interval  27%-53%; p < .001). the passive 868-mhz rfid signal induced emi in 26 medical devices  including 8 that were also affected by the active 125-khz rfid signal (26 in 41 devices; 63%). the median distance between the rfid reader and the medical device in all emi incidents was 30 cm (range  0.1-600 cm). conclusions in a controlled nonclinical setting  rfid induced potentially hazardous incidents in medical devices. implementation of rfid in the critical care environment should require on-site emi tests and updates of international standards.
185,il-23–responsive innate lymphoid cells are increased in inflammatory bowel disease,results of experimental and genetic studies have highlighted the role of the il-23/il-17 axis in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease (ibd). il-23-driven inflammation has been primarily linked to th17 cells; however  we have recently identified a novel population of innate lymphoid cells (ilcs) in mice that produces il-17  il-22  and ifn-γ in response to il-23 and mediates innate colitis. the relevance of ilc populations in human health and disease is currently poorly understood. in this study  we have analyzed the role of il-23-responsive ilcs in the human intestine in control and ibd patients. our results show increased expression of the th17-associated cytokine genes il17a and il17f among intestinal cd3⁻ cells in ibd. il17a and il17f expression is restricted to cd56⁻ ilcs  whereas il-23 induces il22 and il26 in the cd56⁺ ilc compartment. furthermore  we observed a significant and selective increase in cd127⁺cd56⁻ ilcs in the inflamed intestine in crohn's disease (cd) patients but not in ulcerative colitis patients. these results indicate that il-23-responsive ilcs are present in the human intestine and that intestinal inflammation in cd is associated with the selective accumulation of a phenotypically distinct ilc population characterized by inflammatory cytokine expression. ilcs may contribute to intestinal inflammation through cytokine production  lymphocyte recruitment  and organization of the inflammatory tissue and may represent a novel tissue-specific target for subtypes of ibd.
187,augmenting antitumor immune responses with epigenetic modifying agents,epigenetic silencing of immune-related genes is a striking feature of the cancer genome that occurs in the process of tumorigenesis. this phenomena impacts antigen processing and antigen presentation by tumor cells and facilitates evasion of immunosurveillance. further modulation of the tumor microenvironment by altered expression of immunosuppressive cytokines impairs antigen-presenting cells and cytolytic t-cell function. the potential reversal of immunosuppression by epigenetic modulation is therefore a promising and versatile therapeutic approach to reinstate endogenous immune recognition and tumor lysis. pre-clinical studies have identified multiple elements of the immune system that can be modulated by epigenetic mechanisms and result in improved antigen presentation  effector t-cell function  and breakdown of suppressor mechanisms. recent clinical studies are utilizing epigenetic therapies prior to  or in combination with  immune therapies to improve clinical outcomes.
189,neutrophil extracellular traps enriched in oxidized mitochondrial dna are interferogenic and contribute to lupus-like disease,neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) are implicated in autoimmunity  but how they are generated and their roles in sterile inflammation remain unclear. ribonucleoprotein immune complexes (rnp ics)  inducers of netosis  require mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ros) for maximal net stimulation. after rnp ic stimulation of neutrophils  mitochondria become hypopolarized and translocate to the cell surface. extracellular release of oxidized mitochondrial dna is proinflammatory in vitro  and when this dna is injected into mice  it stimulates type i interferon (ifn) signaling through a pathway dependent on the dna sensor sting. mitochondrial ros are also necessary for spontaneous netosis of low-density granulocytes from individuals with systemic lupus erythematosus. this was also observed in individuals with chronic granulomatous disease  who lack nadph oxidase activity but still develop autoimmunity and type i ifn signatures. mitochondrial ros inhibition in vivo reduces disease severity and type i ifn responses in a mouse model of lupus. together  these findings highlight a role for mitochondria in the generation not only of nets but also of pro-inflammatory oxidized mitochondrial dna in autoimmune diseases.
191,effective population size and patterns of molecular evolution and variation,the effective size of a population  ne  determines the rate of change in the composition of a population caused by genetic drift  which is the random sampling of genetic variants in a finite population. ne is crucial in determining the level of variability in a population  and the effectiveness of selection relative to drift. this article reviews the properties of ne in a variety of different situations of biological interest  and the factors that influence it. in particular  the action of selection means that ne varies across the genome  and advances in genomic techniques are giving new insights into how selection shapes ne.
193,a neural basis for melanocortin-4 receptor regulated appetite,pro-opiomelanocortin (pomc)- and agouti-related peptide (agrp)-expressing neurons of the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus (arc) are oppositely regulated by caloric depletion and coordinately stimulate and inhibit homeostatic satiety  respectively. this bimodality is principally underscored by the antagonistic actions of these ligands at downstream melanocortin-4 receptors (mc4r) in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (pvh). although this population is critical to energy balance  the underlying neural circuitry remains unknown. using mice expressing cre recombinase in mc4r neurons  we demonstrate bidirectional control of feeding following real-time activation and inhibition of pvh(mc4r) neurons and further identify these cells as a functional exponent of arc(agrp) neuron-driven hunger. moreover  we reveal this function to be mediated by a pvh(mc4r)→lateral parabrachial nucleus (lpbn) pathway. activation of this circuit encodes positive valence  but only in calorically depleted mice. thus  the satiating and appetitive nature of pvh(mc4r)→lpbn neurons supports the principles of drive reduction and highlights this circuit as a promising target for antiobesity drug development.
195,activation of serotonin 2c receptors in dopamine neurons inhibits binge-like eating in mice,background neural networks that regulate binge eating remain to be identified  and effective treatments for binge eating are limited. methods we combined neuroanatomic  pharmacologic  electrophysiological  cre-lox  and chemogenetic approaches to investigate the functions of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-ht) 2c receptor (5-ht2cr) expressed by dopamine (da) neurons in the regulation of binge-like eating behavior in mice. results we showed that 5-ht stimulates da neural activity through a 5-ht2cr-mediated mechanism  and activation of this midbrain 5-ht→da neural circuit effectively inhibits binge-like eating behavior in mice. notably  5-ht medications  including fluoxetine  d-fenfluramine  and lorcaserin (a selective 5-ht2cr agonist)  act on 5-ht2crs expressed by da neurons to inhibit binge-like eating in mice. conclusions we identified the 5-ht2cr population in da neurons as one potential target for antibinge therapies  and provided preclinical evidence that 5-ht2cr agonists could be used to treat binge eating.
197,the incidence and repetition of hospital-treated deliberate self harm: findings from the world's first national registry,background suicide is a significant public health issue with almost one million people dying by suicide each year worldwide. deliberate self harm (dsh) is the single most important risk factor for suicide yet few countries have reliable data on dsh. we developed a national dsh registry in the republic of ireland to establish the incidence of hospital-treated dsh at national level and the spectrum and pattern of presentations with dsh and repetition. methods and findings between 2003 and 2009  the irish national registry of deliberate self harm collected data on dsh presentations to all 40 hospital emergency departments in the country. data were collected by trained data registration officers using standard methods of case ascertainment and definition. the registry recorded 75 119 dsh presentations involving 48 206 individuals. the total incidence rate fell from 209 (95% ci: 205-213) per 100 000 in 2003 to 184 (95% ci: 180-189) per 100 000 in 2006 and increased again to 209 (95% ci: 204-213) per 100 000 in 2009. the most notable annual changes were successive 10% increases in the male rate in 2008 and 2009. there was significant variation by age with peak rates in women in the 15-19 year age group (620 (95% ci: 605-636) per 100 000)  and in men in the 20-24 age group (427 (95% ci: 416-439) per 100 000). repetition rates varied significantly by age  method of self harm and number of previous episodes. conclusions population-based data on hospital-treated dsh represent an important index of the burden of mental illness and suicide risk in the community. the increased dsh rate in irish men in 2008 and 2009 coincided with the advent of the economic recession in ireland. the findings underline the need for developing effective interventions to reduce dsh repetition rates as a key priority for health systems.
199,increased atherosclerosis in mice reconstituted with apolipoprotein e null macrophages.,macrophage-derived foam cells express apolipoprotein e (apoe) abundantly in atherosclerotic lesions. to examine the physiologic role of apoe secretion by the macrophage in atherogenesis  bone marrow transplantation was used to reconstitute c57bl/6 mice with macrophages that were either null or wild type for the apoe gene. after 13 weeks on an atherogenic diet  c57bl/6 mice reconstituted with apoe null marrow developed 10-fold more atherosclerosis than controls in the absence of significant differences in serum cholesterol levels or lipoprotein profiles. apoe expression was absent in the macrophage-derived foam cells of c57bl/6 mice reconstituted with apoe null marrow. thus  lack of apoe expression by the macrophage promotes foam cell formation. these data support a protective role for apoe expression by the macrophage in early atherogenesis.
201,loss of the rhogap srgp-1 promotes the clearance of dead and injured cells in caenorhabditis elegans,multicellular animals rapidly clear dying cells from their bodies. many of the pathways that mediate this cell removal are conserved through evolution. here  we identify srgp-1 as a negative regulator of cell clearance in both caenorhabditis elegans and mammalian cells. loss of srgp-1 function results in improved engulfment of apoptotic cells  whereas srgp-1 overexpression inhibits apoptotic cell corpse removal. we show that srgp-1 functions in engulfing cells and functions as a gtpase activating protein (gap) for ced-10 (rac1). interestingly  loss of srgp-1 function promotes not only the clearance of already dead cells  but also the removal of cells that have been brought to the verge of death through sublethal apoptotic  necrotic or cytotoxic insults. in contrast  impaired engulfment allows damaged cells to escape clearance  which results in increased long-term survival. we propose that c. elegans uses the engulfment machinery as part of a primitive  but evolutionarily conserved  survey mechanism that identifies and removes unfit cells within a tissue.
203,regulatory and metabolic rewiring during laboratory evolution of ethanol tolerance in e. coli,understanding the genetic basis of adaptation is a central problem in biology. however  revealing the underlying molecular mechanisms has been challenging as changes in fitness may result from perturbations to many pathways  any of which may contribute relatively little. we have developed a combined experimental/computational framework to address this problem and used it to understand the genetic basis of ethanol tolerance in escherichia coli. we used fitness profiling to measure the consequences of single-locus perturbations in the context of ethanol exposure. a module-level computational analysis was then used to reveal the organization of the contributing loci into cellular processes and regulatory pathways (e.g. osmoregulation and cell-wall biogenesis) whose modifications significantly affect ethanol tolerance. strikingly  we discovered that a dominant component of adaptation involves metabolic rewiring that boosts intracellular ethanol degradation and assimilation. through phenotypic and metabolomic analysis of laboratory-evolved ethanol-tolerant strains  we investigated naturally accessible pathways of ethanol tolerance. remarkably  these laboratory-evolved strains  by and large  follow the same adaptive paths as inferred from our coarse-grained search of the fitness landscape.
205,collagen/polypropylene composite mesh biocompatibility in abdominal wall reconstruction.,background intraperitoneal placement of polypropylene mesh leads to extensive visceral adhesions and is contraindicated. different coatings are used to improve polypropylene mesh properties. collagen is a protein with unique biocompatibility and cell ingrowth enhancement potential. a novel acetic acid extracted collagen coating was developed to allow placement of polypropylene mesh in direct contact with viscera. the authors' aim was to evaluate the long-term influence of acetic acid extracted collagen coating on surgical aspects and biomechanical properties of polypropylene mesh implanted in direct contact with viscera  including complications  adhesions with viscera  strength of incorporation  and microscopic inflammatory reaction. methods forty adult wistar rats were divided into two groups: experimental (polypropylene mesh/acetic acid extracted collagen coating) and control (polypropylene mesh only). astandardized procedure of mesh implantation was performed. animals were killed 3 months after surgery and analyzed for complications  mesh area covered by adhesions  type of adhesions  strength of incorporation  and intensity of inflammatory response. results the mean adhesion area was lower for polypropylene mesh/acetic acid extracted collagen coating (14.5 percent versus 69.9 percent  p < 0.001). adhesion severity was decreased in the experimental group: grades 0 and 1 were more frequent (p < 0.04 and p < 0.002  respectively) and grade 3 was less frequent (p < 0.0001). an association between adhesion area and severity was found (p < 0.0001). complications  strength of incorporation  and intensity of inflammatory response to the mesh were similar. conclusions visceral adhesions to polypropylene mesh are significantly reduced because of acetic acid extracted collagen coating. the collagen coating does not increase complications or induce alterations of polypropylene mesh incorporation.
207,ranking of elimination feasibility between malaria-endemic countries,experience gained from the global malaria eradication program (1955-72) identified a set of shared technical and operational factors that enabled some countries to successfully eliminate malaria. spatial data for these factors were assembled for all malaria-endemic countries and combined to provide an objective  relative ranking of countries by technical  operational  and combined elimination feasibility. the analysis was done separately for plasmodium falciparum and plasmodium vivax  and the limitations of the approach were discussed. the relative rankings suggested that malaria elimination would be most feasible in countries in the americas and asia  and least feasible in countries in central and west africa. the results differed when feasibility was measured by technical or operational factors  highlighting the different types of challenge faced by each country. the results are not intended to be prescriptive  predictive  or to provide absolute assessments of feasibility  but they do show that spatial information is available to facilitate evidence-based assessments of the relative feasibility of malaria elimination by country that can be rapidly updated.
209,2010 rheumatoid arthritis classification criteria: an american college of rheumatology/european league against rheumatism collaborative initiative.,objective the 1987 american college of rheumatology (acr; formerly the american rheumatism association) classification criteria for rheumatoid arthritis (ra) have been criticised for their lack of sensitivity in early disease. this work was undertaken to develop new classification criteria for ra. methods a joint working group from the acr and the european league against rheumatism developed  in three phases  a new approach to classifying ra. the work focused on identifying  among patients newly presenting with undifferentiated inflammatory synovitis  factors that best discriminated between those who were and those who were not at high risk for persistent and/or erosive disease--this being the appropriate current paradigm underlying the disease construct 'ra'. results in the new criteria set  classification as 'definite ra' is based on the confirmed presence of synovitis in at least one joint  absence of an alternative diagnosis better explaining the synovitis  and achievement of a total score of 6 or greater (of a possible 10) from the individual scores in four domains: number and site of involved joints (range 0-5)  serological abnormality (range 0-3)  elevated acute-phase response (range 0-1) and symptom duration (two levels; range 0-1). conclusion this new classification system redefines the current paradigm of ra by focusing on features at earlier stages of disease that are associated with persistent and/or erosive disease  rather than defining the disease by its late-stage features. this will refocus attention on the important need for earlier diagnosis and institution of effective disease-suppressing therapy to prevent or minimise the occurrence of the undesirable sequelae that currently comprise the paradigm underlying the disease construct 'ra'.
211,immtac-redirected tumour cell killing induces and potentiates antigen cross-presentation by dendritic cells,antigen cross-presentation by dendritic cells (dcs) is thought to play a critical role in driving a polyclonal and durable t cell response against cancer. it follows  therefore  that the capacity of emerging immunotherapeutic agents to orchestrate tumour eradication may depend on their ability to induce antigen cross-presentation. immtacs [immune-mobilising monoclonal tcrs (t cell receptors) against cancer] are a new class of soluble bi-specific anti-cancer agents that combine pico-molar affinity tcr-based antigen recognition with t cell activation via a cd3-specific antibody fragment. immtacs specifically recognise human leucocyte antigen (hla)-restricted tumour-associated antigens  presented by cancer cells  leading to t cell redirection and a potent anti-tumour response. using an immtac specific for a hla-a*02-restricted peptide derived from the melanoma antigen gp100 (termed imcgp100)  we here observe that immtac-driven melanoma-cell death leads to cross-presentation of melanoma antigens by dcs. these  in turn  can activate both melanoma-specific t cells and polyclonal t cells redirected by imcgp100. moreover  activation of melanoma-specific t cells by cross-presenting dcs is enhanced in the presence of imcgp100; a feature that serves to increase the prospect of breaking tolerance in the tumour microenvironment. the mechanism of dc cross-presentation occurs via ‘cross-dressing’ which involves the rapid and direct capture by dcs of membrane fragments from dying tumour cells. dc cross-presentation of gp100-peptide-hla complexes was visualised and quantified using a fluorescently labelled soluble tcr. these data demonstrate how immtacs engage with the innate and adaptive components of the immune system enhancing the prospect of mediating an effective and durable anti-tumour response in patients.
213,“rapid-impact interventions”: how a policy of integrated control for africa's neglected tropical diseases could benefit the poor,over the past two decades there have been significant achievements in the control of a handful of important human tropical infections [1]. these achievements include the substantive reductions in the prevalence and incidence of the so-called neglected diseases such as lymphatic filariasis  onchocerciasis  guinea worm  leprosy  and trachoma (box 1) [2]. each of these neglected diseases is a poverty-promoting and often stigmatizing condition occurring primarily in rural areas of low-income countries (box 2) [3]. they are ancient afflictions  described in the bible and other ancient texts  which have burdened humanity for millennia [3]. but now  as a result of aggressive regional vertical interventions  there is a possibility that some neglected tropical infections could be eventually controlled to the point of elimination in some areas of endemicity [2–8]. in the case of guinea worm infection  disease eradication might also soon be possible [9]. box 2. common features of the neglected tropical diseases          ancient afflictions that have burdened humanity for centuries      poverty-promoting conditions      associated with stigma      rural areas of low-income countries and fragile states      no commercial markets for products that target these diseases      interventions  when applied  have a history of success
215,specificity residues determine binding affinity for two-component signal transduction systems,unlabelled two-component systems (tcs) comprise histidine kinases and their cognate response regulators and allow bacteria to sense and respond to a wide variety of signals. histidine kinases (hks) phosphorylate and dephosphorylate their cognate response regulators (rrs) in response to stimuli. in general  these reactions appear to be highly specific and require an appropriate association between the hk and rr proteins. the myxococcus xanthus genome encodes one of the largest repertoires of signaling proteins in bacteria (685 open reading frames [orfs])  including at least 127 hks and at least 143 rrs. of these  27 are bona fide ntrc-family response regulators  21 of which are encoded adjacent to their predicted cognate kinases. using system-wide profiling methods  we determined that the hk-ntrc rr pairs display a kinetic preference during both phosphotransfer and phosphatase functions  thereby defining cognate signaling systems in m. xanthus. isothermal titration calorimetry measurements indicated that cognate hk-rr pairs interact with dissociation constants (kd) of approximately 1 µm  while noncognate pairs had no measurable binding. lastly  a chimera generated between the histidine kinase  crds  and hk1190 revealed that residues conferring phosphotransfer and phosphatase specificity dictate binding affinity  thereby establishing discrete protein-protein interactions which prevent cross talk. the data indicate that binding affinity is a critical parameter governing system-wide signaling fidelity for bacterial signal transduction proteins. importance using in vitro phosphotransfer and phosphatase profiling assays and isothermal titration calorimetry  we have taken a system-wide approach to demonstrate specificity for a family of two-component signaling proteins in myxococcus xanthus. our results demonstrate that previously identified specificity residues dictate binding affinity and that phosphatase specificity follows phosphotransfer specificity for cognate hk-rr pairs. the data indicate that preferential binding affinity is the basis for signaling fidelity in bacterial two-component systems.
217,rapamycin passes the torch: a new generation of mtor inhibitors,mammalian target of rapamycin (mtor) is an atypical protein kinase that controls growth and metabolism in response to nutrients  growth factors and cellular energy levels  and it is frequently dysregulated in cancer and metabolic disorders. rapamycin is an allosteric inhibitor of mtor  and was approved as an immuno-suppressant in 1999. in recent years  interest has focused on its potential as an anticancer drug. however  the performance of rapamycin and its analogues (rapalogues) has been undistinguished despite isolated successes in subsets of cancer  suggesting that the full therapeutic potential of targeting mtor has yet to be exploited. a new generation of atp-competitive inhibitors that directly target the mtor catalytic site display potent and comprehensive mtor inhibition and are in early clinical trials.
219,the mammalian scribble polarity protein regulates epithelial cell adhesion and migration through e-cadherin,scribble (scrib) is a conserved polarity protein required in drosophila melanogaster for synaptic function  neuroblast differentiation  and epithelial polarization. it is also a tumor suppressor. in rodents  scrib has been implicated in receptor recycling and planar polarity but not in apical/basal polarity. we now show that knockdown of scrib disrupts adhesion between madin–darby canine kidney epithelial cells. as a consequence  the cells acquire a mesenchymal appearance  migrate more rapidly  and lose directionality. although tight junction assembly is delayed  confluent monolayers remain polarized. these effects are independent of rac activation or scrib binding to βpix. rather  scrib depletion disrupts e-cadherin–mediated cell–cell adhesion. the changes in morphology and migration are phenocopied by e-cadherin knockdown. adhesion is partially rescued by expression of an e-cadherin–α-catenin fusion protein but not by e-cadherin–green fluorescent protein. these results suggest that scrib stabilizes the coupling between e-cadherin and the catenins and are consistent with the idea that mammalian scrib could behave as a tumor suppressor by regulating epithelial cell adhesion and migration.
221,yeastract: providing a programmatic access to curated transcriptional regulatory associations in saccharomyces cerevisiae through a web services interface,the yeast search for transcriptional regulators and consensus tracking (yeastract) information system (http://www.yeastract.com) was developed to support the analysis of transcription regulatory associations in saccharomyces cerevisiae. last updated in june 2010  this database contains over 48 200 regulatory associations between transcription factors (tfs) and target genes  including 298 specific dna-binding sites for 110 characterized tfs. all regulatory associations stored in the database were revisited and detailed information on the experimental evidences that sustain those associations was added and classified as direct or indirect evidences. the inclusion of this new data  gathered in response to the requests of yeastract users  allows the user to restrict its queries to subsets of the data based on the existence or not of experimental evidences for the direct action of the tfs in the promoter region of their target genes. another new feature of this release is the availability of all data through a machine readable web-service interface. users are no longer restricted to the set of available queries made available through the existing web interface  and can use the web service interface to query  retrieve and exploit the yeastract data using their own implementation of additional functionalities. the yeastract information system is further complemented with several computational tools that facilitate the use of the curated data when answering a number of important biological questions. since its first release in 2006  yeastract has been extensively used by hundreds of researchers from all over the world. we expect that by making the new data and services available  the system will continue to be instrumental for yeast biologists and systems biology researchers.
223,hiv seropositivity and tuberculosis in a large general hospital in malawi.,the incidence of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (aids) in malawi is one of the highest in central africa. since tuberculosis is an important initial manifestations of the disease  consecutive patients admitted to the tuberculosis (tb) wards of zomba general hospital  malawi  were asked for permission to undergo a human immunodeficiency virus (hiv)-antibodies test. in addition  two other studies were done: from september 1986 all medical in-patients  clinically suspected for immune deficiency and from april 1988 all blood donors were tested for hiv seropositivity. seventy-five percent of the tb patients volunteered; 32 out of 125 (26%) were seropositive. in the high-risk age groups (20-40 years) this percentage rose to 32. among the medical in-patients suspected of immune deficiency the seropositivity rose sharply from april 1987 to october 1988. among the blood donors tested  20% were seropositive.
225,high density mapping of the mhc identifies a shared role for hla-drb1*01:03 in inflammatory bowel diseases and heterozygous advantage in ulcerative colitis,genome-wide association studies of the related chronic inflammatory bowel diseases (ibd) known as crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis have shown strong evidence of association to the major histocompatibility complex (mhc). this region encodes a large number of immunological candidates  including the antigen-presenting classical human leukocyte antigen (hla) molecules. studies in ibd have indicated that multiple independent associations exist at hla and non-hla genes  but they have lacked the statistical power to define the architecture of association and causal alleles. to address this  we performed high-density snp typing of the mhc in >32 000 individuals with ibd  implicating multiple hla alleles  with a primary role for hla-drb1*01:03 in both crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. noteworthy differences were observed between these diseases  including a predominant role for class ii hla variants and heterozygous advantage observed in ulcerative colitis  suggesting an important role of the adaptive immune response in the colonic environment in the pathogenesis of ibd.
227,hyperactive neuroendocrine secretion causes size  feeding  and metabolic defects of c. elegans bardet-biedl syndrome mutants,bardet-biedl syndrome  bbs  is a rare autosomal recessive disorder with clinical presentations including polydactyly  retinopathy  hyperphagia  obesity  short stature  cognitive impairment  and developmental delays. disruptions of bbs proteins in a variety of organisms impair cilia formation and function and the multi-organ defects of bbs have been attributed to deficiencies in various cilia-associated signaling pathways. in c. elegans  bbs genes are expressed exclusively in the sixty ciliated sensory neurons of these animals and bbs mutants exhibit sensory defects as well as body size  feeding  and metabolic abnormalities. here we show that in contrast to many other cilia-defective mutants  c. elegans bbs mutants exhibit increased release of dense-core vesicles and organism-wide phenotypes associated with enhanced activities of insulin  neuropeptide  and biogenic amine signaling pathways. we show that the altered body size  feeding  and metabolic abnormalities of bbs mutants can be corrected to wild-type levels by abrogating the enhanced secretion of dense-core vesicles without concomitant correction of ciliary defects. these findings expand the role of bbs proteins to the regulation of dense-core-vesicle exocytosis and suggest that some features of bardet-biedl syndrome may be caused by excessive neuroendocrine secretion.
229,pharmacologic characterization of a potent inhibitor of class i phosphatidylinositide 3-kinases.,extensive evidence implicates activation of the lipid phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase (pi3k) pathway in the genesis and progression of various human cancers. pi3k inhibitors thus have considerable potential as molecular cancer therapeutics. here  we detail the pharmacologic properties of a prototype of a new series of inhibitors of class i pi3k. pi103 is a potent inhibitor with low ic50 values against recombinant pi3k isoforms p110alpha (2 nmol/l)  p110beta (3 nmol/l)  p110delta (3 nmol/l)  and p110gamma (15 nmol/l). pi103 also inhibited torc1 by 83.9% at 0.5 micromol/l and exhibited an ic50 of 14 nmol/l against dna-pk. a high degree of selectivity for the pi3k family was shown by the lack of activity of pi103 in a panel of 70 protein kinases. pi103 potently inhibited proliferation and invasion of a wide variety of human cancer cells in vitro and showed biomarker modulation consistent with inhibition of pi3k signaling. pi103 was extensively metabolized  but distributed rapidly to tissues and tumors. this resulted in tumor growth delay in eight different human cancer xenograft models with various pi3k pathway abnormalities. decreased phosphorylation of akt was observed in u87mg gliomas  consistent with drug levels achieved. we also showed inhibition of invasion in orthotopic breast and ovarian cancer xenograft models and obtained evidence that pi103 has antiangiogenic potential. despite its rapid in vivo metabolism  pi103 is a valuable tool compound for exploring the biological function of class i pi3k and importantly represents a lead for further optimization of this novel class of targeted molecular cancer therapeutic.
231,cost-effectiveness of 10-year risk thresholds for initiation of statin therapy for primary prevention of cardiovascular disease.,importance the american college of cardiology and the american heart association (acc/aha) cholesterol treatment guidelines have wide-scale implications for treating adults without history of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ascvd) with statins. objective to estimate the cost-effectiveness of various 10-year ascvd risk thresholds that could be used in the acc/aha cholesterol treatment guidelines. design  setting  and participants microsimulation model  including lifetime time horizon  us societal perspective  3% discount rate for costs  and health outcomes. in the model  hypothetical individuals from a representative us population aged 40 to 75 years received statin treatment  experienced ascvd events  and died from ascvd-related or non-ascvd-related causes based on ascvd natural history and statin treatment parameters. data sources for model parameters included national health and nutrition examination surveys  large clinical trials and meta-analyses for statin benefits and treatment  and other published sources. main outcomes and measures estimated ascvd events prevented and incremental costs per quality-adjusted life-year (qaly) gained. results in the base-case scenario  the current ascvd threshold of 7.5% or higher  which was estimated to be associated with 48% of adults treated with statins  had an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (icer) of $37 000/qaly compared with a 10% or higher threshold. more lenient ascvd thresholds of 4.0% or higher (61% of adults treated) and 3.0% or higher (67% of adults treated) had icers of $81 000/qaly and $140 000/qaly  respectively. shifting from a 7.5% or higher ascvd risk threshold to a 3.0% or higher ascvd risk threshold was estimated to be associated with an additional 161 560 cardiovascular disease events averted. cost-effectiveness results were sensitive to changes in the disutility associated with taking a pill daily  statin price  and the risk of statin-induced diabetes. in probabilistic sensitivity analysis  there was a higher than 93% chance that the optimal ascvd threshold was 5.0% or lower using a cost-effectiveness threshold of $100 000/qaly. conclusions and relevance in this microsimulation model of us adults aged 45 to 75 years [corrected]  the current 10-year ascvd risk threshold (≥7.5% risk threshold) used in the acc/aha cholesterol treatment guidelines has an acceptable cost-effectiveness profile (icer  $37 000/qaly)  but more lenient ascvd thresholds would be optimal using cost-effectiveness thresholds of $100 000/qaly (≥4.0% risk threshold) or $150 000/qaly (≥3.0% risk threshold). the optimal ascvd threshold was sensitive to patient preferences for taking a pill daily  changes to statin price  and the risk of statin-induced diabetes.
233,the twin-arginine translocation (tat) protein export pathway,the twin-arginine translocation (tat) protein export system is present in the cytoplasmic membranes of most bacteria and archaea and has the highly unusual property of transporting fully folded proteins. the system must therefore provide a transmembrane pathway that is large enough to allow the passage of structured macromolecular substrates of different sizes but that maintains the impermeability of the membrane to ions. in the gram-negative bacterium escherichia coli  this complex task can be achieved by using only three small membrane proteins: tata  tatb and tatc. in this review  we summarize recent advances in our understanding of how this remarkable machine operates.
235,the first myriapod genome sequence reveals conservative arthropod gene content and genome organisation in the centipede strigamia maritima ,myriapods (e.g.  centipedes and millipedes) display a simple homonomous body plan relative to other arthropods. all members of the class are terrestrial  but they attained terrestriality independently of insects. myriapoda is the only arthropod class not represented by a sequenced genome. we present an analysis of the genome of the centipede strigamia maritima. it retains a compact genome that has undergone less gene loss and shuffling than previously sequenced arthropods  and many orthologues of genes conserved from the bilaterian ancestor that have been lost in insects. our analysis locates many genes in conserved macro-synteny contexts  and many small-scale examples of gene clustering. we describe several examples where s. maritima shows different solutions from insects to similar problems. the insect olfactory receptor gene family is absent from s. maritima  and olfaction in air is likely effected by expansion of other receptor gene families. for some genes s. maritima has evolved paralogues to generate coding sequence diversity  where insects use alternate splicing. this is most striking for the dscam gene  which in drosophila generates more than 100 000 alternate splice forms  but in s. maritima is encoded by over 100 paralogues. we see an intriguing linkage between the absence of any known photosensory proteins in a blind organism and the additional absence of canonical circadian clock genes. the phylogenetic position of myriapods allows us to identify where in arthropod phylogeny several particular molecular mechanisms and traits emerged. for example  we conclude that juvenile hormone signalling evolved with the emergence of the exoskeleton in the arthropods and that rr-1 containing cuticle proteins evolved in the lineage leading to mandibulata. we also identify when various gene expansions and losses occurred. the genome of s. maritima offers us a unique glimpse into the ancestral arthropod genome  while also displaying many adaptations to its specific life history.
237,immunosuppressant fty720 inhibits thymocyte emigration.,one major role of the thymus is to provide the peripheral immune system with mature t cells  but the mechanisms involving the cellular export are not fully understood. in this study  we examined the ability of a novel immunosuppressive reagent  fty720  to inhibit t cell export from the thymus. daily administration of fty720 at a dose of 1 mg / kg resulted in a marked decrease in the number of peripheral blood t lymphocytes. in the thymus  long-term daily administration of fty720 caused a three- to fourfold increase in the proportion of mature medullary thymocytes (cd4(+)cd8(-) and cd4(-)cd8(+)) as well as a slight decrease in the double-positive cell (cd4(+)cd8(+)) ratio. phenotypic analysis (tcralpha beta  h-2k(d)  cd44  cd69 and cd24) revealed that these increased subsets represent possible peripheral recent thymic emigrants. high level expression of l-selectin by these subsets further suggests that they were prevented from leaving the thymus. by intrathymic labeling with fluorescein isothiocyanate  only one fourth of labeled cells could be detected in the lymph nodes and in the spleen of fty720-treated mice compared to saline-treated control mice. taken together  these results suggest that the immunosuppressive action of fty720  at least in part  could be due to its inhibitory effect on t cell emigration from the thymus to the periphery.
239,glutaminolysis activates rag-mtorc1 signaling.,amino acids control cell growth via activation of the highly conserved kinase torc1. glutamine is a particularly important amino acid in cell growth control and metabolism. however  the role of glutamine in torc1 activation remains poorly defined. glutamine is metabolized through glutaminolysis to produce α-ketoglutarate. we demonstrate that glutamine in combination with leucine activates mammalian torc1 (mtorc1) by enhancing glutaminolysis and α-ketoglutarate production. inhibition of glutaminolysis prevented gtp loading of ragb and lysosomal translocation and subsequent activation of mtorc1. constitutively active rag heterodimer activated mtorc1 in the absence of glutaminolysis. conversely  enhanced glutaminolysis or a cell-permeable α-ketoglutarate analog stimulated lysosomal translocation and activation of mtorc1. finally  cell growth and autophagy  two processes controlled by mtorc1  were regulated by glutaminolysis. thus  mtorc1 senses and is activated by glutamine and leucine via glutaminolysis and α-ketoglutarate production upstream of rag. this may provide an explanation for glutamine addiction in cancer cells.
241,advantages of larval control for african malaria vectors: low mobility and behavioural responsiveness of immature mosquito stages allow high effective coverage,based on sensitivity analysis of the macdonald-ross model  it has long been argued that the best way to reduce malaria transmission is to target adult female mosquitoes with insecticides that can reduce the longevity and human-feeding frequency of vectors. however  these analyses have ignored a fundamental biological difference between mosquito adults and the immature stages that precede them: adults are highly mobile flying insects that can readily detect and avoid many intervention measures whereas mosquito eggs  larvae and pupae are confined within relatively small aquatic habitats and cannot readily escape control measures. we hypothesize that the control of adult but not immature mosquitoes is compromised by their ability to avoid interventions such as excito-repellant insecticides. we apply a simple model of intervention avoidance by mosquitoes and demonstrate that this can substantially reduce effective coverage  in terms of the proportion of the vector population that is covered  and overall impact on malaria transmission. we review historical evidence that larval control of african malaria vectors can be effective and conclude that the only limitations to the effective coverage of larval control are practical rather than fundamental. larval control strategies against the vectors of malaria in sub-saharan africa could be highly effective  complementary to adult control interventions  and should be prioritized for further development  evaluation and implementation as an integral part of rolling back malaria.
243,peripheral arterial disease in the elderly: the rotterdam study.,to assess the age- and sex-specific prevalence of peripheral arterial disease (pad) and intermittent claudication (ic) in an elderly population  we performed a population-based study in 7715 subjects (40% men  60% women) aged 55 years and over. the presence of pad and ic was determined by measuring the ankle-arm systolic blood pressure index (aai) and by means of the world health organization/rose questionnaire  respectively. pad was considered present when the aai was <0.90 in either leg. the prevalence of pad was 19.1% (95% confidence interval  18.1% to 20.0%): 16.9% in men and 20.5% in women. symptoms of ic were reported by 1.6% (95% confidence interval  1.3% to 1.9%) of the study population (2.2% in men  1.2% in women). of those with pad  6.3% reported symptoms of ic (8.7% in men  4.9% in women)  whereas in 68.9% of those with ic an aai below 0.90 was found. subjects with an aai <0.90 were more likely to be smokers  to have hypertension  and to have symptomatic or asymptomatic cardiovascular disease compared with subjects with an aai of 0.90 or higher. the authors conclude that the prevalence of pad in the elderly is high whereas the prevalence of ic is rather low  although both prevalences clearly increase with advancing age. the vast majority of pad patients reports no symptoms of ic.
245,relation between colonic proglucagon expression and metabolic response to oligofructose in high fat diet-fed mice.,several data suggest that fermentable dietary fiber could play a role in the control of obesity and associated metabolic disorders. the aim of this study was to investigate the putative role of short chain fructo-oligosaccharide (ofs) - a non-digestible oligosaccharide - in mice fed a standard diet and in mice fed two distinct high fat diets inducing metabolic disorders associated to obesity. we confirmed  in mice  several effects previously shown in rats fed a standard diet enriched with ofs  namely an increase in total and empty caecum weight  a significant decrease in epididymal fat mass  and an increase in colonic and portal plasma glucagon-like peptide-1 (glp-1)  a phenomenon positively correlated with a higher colonic proglucagon mrna level. curiously  4-week treatment with ofs added at the same dose induced different effects when added in the two different high fat diets. ofs decreased energy intake  body weight gain  glycemia  and epididymal fat mass only when added together with the high fat-carbohydrate free diet  in which ofs promoted colonic proglucagon expression and insulin secretion. our results support an association between the increase in proglucagon expression in the proximal colon and ofs effects on glycemia  fat mass development  and/or body weight gain. in conclusion  dietary oligosaccharides would constitute an interesting class of dietary fibers promoting  in certain conditions  endogenous glp-1 production  with beneficial physiological consequences. this remains to be proven in human studies.
247,prognostic importance of 6-mercaptopurine dose intensity in acute lymphoblastic leukemia.,6-mercaptopurine (6mp) and methotrexate are the backbone of continuation therapy for childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all). in studies of oral 6mp and methotrexate  indices of chronic systemic exposure to active metabolites of these agents  namely  red blood cell (rbc) concentrations of methotrexate polyglutamates (mtxpgs) and thioguanine nucleotides (tgns) have positively correlated with event-free survival (efs). our objective was to evaluate whether mtxpgs  tgns  and the dose intensity of administered methotrexate and 6mp were prognostic in the setting of a treatment protocol in which all treatment was coordinated through a single center  and the weekly doses of methotrexate were given parenterally. on protocol total xii  182 children achieved remission and received weekly methotrexate 40 mg/m2 parenterally and daily oral 6mp  interrupted every 6 weeks during the first year by pulse chemotherapy. a total of 709 tgn  418 mtx-pg  and 267 thiopurine methyltransferase (tpmt) measurements  along with complete dose intensity information (dose received divided by protocol dose per week) for 19 046 weeks of 6mp and methotrexate  were analyzed. in univariate analyses  only higher dose intensity of 6mp and of weekly methotrexate were significant predictors of overall efs (p =.006 and. 039  respectively). the occurrence of neutropenia was associated with worse outcome (p =.040). in a multivariate analysis  only higher dose intensity of 6mp (p =.020) was a significant predictor of efs  with lower tpmt activity (p =.096) tending to associate with better outcome. 6mp dose intensity was also associated (p =.007) with efs among patients with homozygous wild-type tpmt phenotype. lower 6mp dose intensity was primarily due to missed weeks of therapy and not to reductions in daily dose. we conclude that increased dose-intensity of oral 6mp is an important determinant of efs in all  particularly among those children with a homozygous wild-type tpmt phenotype. however  increasing intensity of therapy such that neutropenia precludes chemotherapy administration may be counterproductive.
249,mouse spermatogenic stem cells continually interconvert between equipotent singly isolated and syncytial states,the identity and behavior of mouse spermatogenic stem cells have been a long-standing focus of interest. in the prevailing "as model " stem cell function is restricted to singly isolated (as) spermatogonia. by examining single-cell dynamics of gfrα1+ stem cells in vivo  we evaluate an alternative hypothesis that  through fragmentation  syncytial spermatogonia also contribute to stem cell function in homeostasis. we use live imaging and pulse labeling to quantitatively determine the fates of individual gfrα1+ cells and find that  during steady-state spermatogenesis  the entire gfrα1+ population comprises a single stem cell pool  in which cells continually interconvert between as and syncytial states. a minimal biophysical model  relying only on the rates of incomplete cell division and syncytial fragmentation  precisely predicts the stochastic fates of gfrα1+ cells during steady state and postinsult regeneration. thus  our results define an alternative and dynamic model for spermatogenic stem cell function in the mouse testis.
251,an essential role for interferon gamma in resistance to mycobacterium tuberculosis infection,tuberculosis  a major health problem in developing countries  has reemerged in recent years in many industrialized countries. the increased susceptibility of immunocompromised individuals to tuberculosis  and many experimental studies indicate that t cell-mediated immunity plays an important role in resistance. the lymphokine interferon gamma (ifn-gamma) is thought to be a principal mediator of macrophage activation and resistance to intracellular pathogens. mice have been developed which fail to produce ifn-gamma (gko)  because of a targeted disruption of the gene for ifn-gamma. upon infection with mycobacterium tuberculosis  although they develop granulomas  gko mice fail to produce reactive nitrogen intermediates and are unable to restrict the growth of the bacilli. in contrast to control mice  gko mice exhibit heightened tissue necrosis and succumb to a rapid and fatal course of tuberculosis that could be delayed  but not prevented  by treatment with exogenous recombinant ifn-gamma.
253,the hippo signaling pathway restricts the oncogenic potential of an intestinal regeneration program.,although a developmental role for hippo signaling in organ size control is well appreciated  how this pathway functions in tissue regeneration is largely unknown. here we address this issue using a dextran sodium sulfate (dss)-induced colonic regeneration model. we find that regenerating crypts express elevated yes-associated protein (yap) levels. inactivation of yap causes no obvious intestinal defects under normal homeostasis  but severely impairs dss-induced intestinal regeneration. conversely  hyperactivation of yap results in widespread early-onset polyp formation following dss treatment. thus  the yap oncoprotein must be exquisitely controlled in tissue regeneration to allow compensatory proliferation and prevent the intrinsic oncogenic potential of a tissue regeneration program.
255,combination inhibition of pi3k and mtorc1 yields durable remissions in orthotopic patient-derived xenografts of her2-positive breast cancer brain metastases,brain metastases represent the greatest clinical challenge in treating her2-positive breast cancer. we report the development of orthotopic patient-derived xenografts (pdxs) of her2-expressing breast cancer brain metastases (bcbm)  and their use for the identification of targeted combination therapies. combined inhibition of pi3k and mtor resulted in durable tumor regressions in three of five pdxs  and therapeutic response was correlated with a reduction in the phosphorylation of 4ebp1  an mtorc1 effector. the two nonresponding pdxs showed hypermutated genomes with enrichment of mutations in dna-repair genes  which suggests an association of genomic instability with therapeutic resistance. these findings suggest that a biomarker-driven clinical trial of pi3k inhibitor in combination with an mtor inhibitor should be conducted for patients with her2-positive bcbm.
257,familial hiatal hernia in a large five generation family confirming true autosomal dominant inheritance.,background familial hiatal hernia has only rarely been documented. aims to describe the pattern of inheritance of familial hiatal hernia within an affected family. subjects thirty eight members of a family pedigree across five generations. methods all family members were interviewed and investigated by barium meal for evidence of a hiatal hernia. results twenty three of 38 family members had radiological evidence of a hiatal hernia. no individual with a hiatal hernia was born to unaffected parents. in one case direct male to male transmission was shown. conclusions familial inheritance of hiatal hernia does occur. evidence of direct male to male transmission points to an autosomal dominant mode of inheritance.
259,diminished performance on neuropsychological testing in late life depression is correlated with microstructural white matter abnormalities.,background traditional t2 weighted mr imaging results are non-specific for the extent of underlying white matter structural abnormalities present in late life depression (lld). diffusion tensor imaging provides a unique opportunity to investigate the extent and nature of structural injury  but has been limited by examining only a subset of regions of interest (roi) and by confounds common to the study of an elderly population  including comorbid vascular pathology. furthermore  comprehensive correlation of diffusion tensor imaging (dti) measurements  including axial and radial diffusivity measurements  has not been demonstrated in the late life depression population. methods 51 depressed and 16 non-depressed  age- and cerebrovascular risk factor-matched elderly subjects underwent traditional anatomic t1 and t2 weight imaging  as well as dti. the dti data were skeletonized using tract based spatial statistics (tbss)  and both regional and global analyses were performed. results widespread structural abnormalities within white matter were detected in the lld group  accounting for age  gender and education and matched for cerebrovascular risk factors and global t2 white matter hyperintensities (t2wmh). regional differences were most prominent in uncinate and cingulate white matter and were generally characterized by an increase in radial diffusivity. age-related changes particularly in the cingulate bundle were more advanced in individuals with lld relative to controls. regression analysis demonstrated significant correlations of regional fractional anisotropy and radial diffusivity with five different neuropsychological factor scores. tbss analysis demonstrated a greater extent of white matter abnormalities in lld not responsive to treatment  as compared to controls. conclusions white matter integrity is compromised in late life depression  largely manifested by increased radial diffusivity in specific regions  suggesting underlying myelin injury. a possible mechanism for underlying myelin injury is chronic white matter ischemia related to intrinsic cerebrovascular disease. in some regions such as the cingulate bundle  the white matter injury related to late life depression appears to be independent of and compounded by age-related changes. the correlations with neuropsychological testing indicate the essential effects of white matter injury on functional status. lastly  response to treatment may depend on the extent of white matter injury  suggesting a need for intact functional networks.
261,case-control study of endogenous steroid hormones and endometrial cancer.,background it has been suggested that identified risk factors for endometrial cancer operate through a single etiologic pathway  i.e.  exposure to relatively high levels of unopposed estrogen (estrogen in the absence of progestins). only a few studies  however  have addressed this issue directly. purpose we assessed the risk of developing endometrial cancer among both premenopausal and postmenopausal women in relation to the circulating levels of steroid hormones and sex hormone-binding globulin (shbg). the independent effect of hormones was assessed after adjustment for other known risk factors. methods the data used in the analysis are from a case-control study conducted in five geographic regions in the united states. incident cases were newly diagnosed during the period from june 1  1987  through may 15  1990. the case patients  aged 20-74 years  were matched to control subjects by age  race  and geographic region. the community control subjects were obtained by random-digit-dialing procedures (for subjects 20-64 years old) and from files of the health care financing administration (for subjects > or = 65 years old). additional control subjects who were having a hysterectomy performed for benign conditions were obtained from the participating centers. women reporting use of exogenous estrogens or oral contraceptives within 6 months of interview were excluded  resulting in 68 case patients and 107 control subjects among premenopausal women and 208 case patients and 209 control subjects among postmenopausal women. the hormone analyses were performed on blood samples obtained from case patients or from hysterectomy control subjects before surgery. the odds ratios (ors) and 95% confidence intervals (cis) were estimated by use of an unconditional logistic regression analysis after we controlled for matching variables and potential confounders. all p values were two-sided. results high circulating levels of androstenedione were associated with 3.6-fold and 2.8-fold increased risks among premenopausal and postmenopausal women  respectively  after adjustment for other factors (p for trend = .01 and < .001  respectively). risks related to other hormone fractions varied by menopausal status. among postmenopausal women  a reduced risk was associated with high shbg levels and persisted after adjustment was made for obesity and other factors (or = 0.51; 95% ci = 0.27-0.95). high estrone levels were associated with increased risk (or = 3.8; 95% ci = 2.2-6.6)  although adjustment for other risk factors (particularly body mass index) diminished the effect (or = 2.2; 95% ci = 1.2-4.4). albumin-bound estradiol (e2)  a marker of the bioavailable fraction  also remained an important risk factor after adjustment was made for other factors (or = 2.0; 95% ci = 1.0-3.9). in contrast  high concentrations of total  free  and albumin-bound e2 were unrelated to increased risk in premenopausal women. in both premenopausal and postmenopausal groups  risks associated with obesity and fat distribution were not affected by adjustment for hormones. conclusion high endogenous levels of unopposed estrogen are related to increased risk of endometrial cancer  but their independence from other risk factors is inconsistent with being a common underlying biologic pathway through which all risk factors for endometrial cancer operate. implications further research should focus on alternative endocrinologic mechanisms for risk associated with obesity and body fat distribution and for the biologic relevance of the increased risk associated with androstenedione in both premenopausal and postmenopausal disease.
263,gestational protein restriction affects trophoblast differentiation.,whether and how gestational protein restriction (pr) affects placental development and function remain unknown. to test the hypothesis that pr can affect trophoblast differentiation in mid-and late pregnancy  rats were fed a 20% or an isocaloric 6% protein diet from day 1 to 14 or 18 of pregnancy and effects of pr on trophoblast differentiation were determined by changes in expressions of marker gene(s) for trophoblast lineages. at day 18 of pregnancy  pr increased expressions of esrrb  id1 andid2 (trophoblast stem cell markers)  decreased expressions of ascl2 (spongiotrophblast cell marker) and prl2c1 (trophoblast giant cell marker)  but did not alter expressions of gjb3 and pcdh12(glycogen cell markers) in the junctional zone (jz). in the labyrinth zone (lz)  pr did not change expressions of prl2b1 (trophoblast giant cell marker)  gcm1 and syna (syncytiotrophoblast cell markers)  but decrease expression of ctsq (sinusoidal trophoblast giant cell marker). these results indicate that pr impairs the differentiation of trophoblast stem cell into spongiotrophoblast and trophoblast giant cells in jz  and formation of sinusoidal trophoblast giant cells in lz.
265,combined impact of lifestyle-related factors on total and cause-specific mortality among chinese women: prospective cohort study,background although cigarette smoking  excessive alcohol drinking  obesity  and several other well-studied unhealthy lifestyle-related factors each have been linked to the risk of multiple chronic diseases and premature death  little is known about the combined impact on mortality outcomes  in particular among chinese and other non-western populations. the objective of this study was to quantify the overall impact of lifestyle-related factors beyond that of active cigarette smoking and alcohol consumption on all-cause and cause-specific mortality in chinese women. methods and findings we used data from the shanghai women's health study  an ongoing population-based prospective cohort study in china. participants included 71 243 women aged 40 to 70 years enrolled during 1996-2000 who never smoked or drank alcohol regularly. a healthy lifestyle score was created on the basis of five lifestyle-related factors shown to be independently associated with mortality outcomes (normal weight  lower waist-hip ratio  daily exercise  never exposed to spouse's smoking  higher daily fruit and vegetable intake). the score ranged from zero (least healthy) to five (most healthy) points. during an average follow-up of 9 years  2 860 deaths occurred  including 775 from cardiovascular disease (cvd) and 1 351 from cancer. adjusted hazard ratios for mortality decreased progressively with an increasing number of healthy lifestyle factors. compared to women with a score of zero  hazard ratios (95% confidence intervals) for women with four to five factors were 0.57 (0.44-0.74) for total mortality  0.29 (0.16-0.54) for cvd mortality  and 0.76 (0.54-1.06) for cancer mortality. the inverse association between the healthy lifestyle score and mortality was seen consistently regardless of chronic disease status at baseline. the population attributable risks for not having 4-5 healthy lifestyle factors were 33% for total deaths  59% for cvd deaths  and 19% for cancer deaths. conclusions in this first study  to our knowledge  to quantify the combined impact of lifestyle-related factors on mortality outcomes in chinese women  a healthier lifestyle pattern-including being of normal weight  lower central adiposity  participation in physical activity  nonexposure to spousal smoking  and higher fruit and vegetable intake-was associated with reductions in total and cause-specific mortality among lifetime nonsmoking and nondrinking women  supporting the importance of overall lifestyle modification in disease prevention. please see later in the article for the editors' summary.
267,high abundance of plasma cells secreting transglutaminase 2–specific iga autoantibodies with limited somatic hypermutation in celiac disease intestinal lesions,celiac disease is an immune-mediated disorder in which mucosal autoantibodies to the enzyme transglutaminase 2 (tg2) are generated in response to the exogenous antigen gluten in individuals who express human leukocyte antigen hla-dq2 or hla-dq8 (ref. 3). we assessed in a comprehensive and nonbiased manner the iga anti-tg2 response by expression cloning of the antibody repertoire of ex vivo–isolated intestinal antibody-secreting cells (ascs). we found that tg2-specific plasma cells are markedly expanded within the duodenal mucosa in individuals with active celiac disease. tg2-specific antibodies were of high affinity yet showed little adaptation by somatic mutations. unlike infection-induced peripheral blood plasmablasts  the tg2-specific ascs had not recently proliferated and were not short-lived ex vivo. altogether  these observations demonstrate that there is a germline repertoire with high affinity for tg2 that may favor massive generation of autoreactive b cells. tg2-specific antibodies did not block enzymatic activity and served as substrates for tg2-mediated crosslinking when expressed as igd or igm but not as iga1 or igg1. this could result in preferential recruitment of plasma cells from naive igd- and igm-expressing b cells  thus possibly explaining why the antibody response to tg2 bears signs of a primary immune response despite the disease chronicity.
269,[clinical study on the therapeutic effect of acupuncture in the treatment of post-stroke depression].,objective to observe the therapeutic effect of "xingnao kaiqiao zhenfa" (acupuncture technique for restoring consciousness) in the treatment of post-stroke depression. methods a total of 256 stroke patients were divided into acupuncture group (n = 180  male 138  female 42) and medication group (n = 76  male 57 and female 19) according to their visiting sequence to our hospital. acupoints used were neiguan (pc 6)  renzhong (gv 26)  baihui (gv 20)  yintang (ex-hn 3) and sanyinjiao (sp 6 the affected side) and the needles were retained for 20 min every time. patients of medication group were asked to take amitriptyline (50 mg/d at first  200 mg/d). acupuncture treatment was conducted twice daily  and after one month's treatment the therapeutic effect was evaluated. self-rating depression scale (sds) and hamilton rating scale for depression (hrsd) were used to assess the patient's state of depression. results after the treatment  of the 180 and 76 cases in acupuncture and medication groups  31 (17.2%) and 13 (17.1%) were cured  73 (40.6%) and 18 (23.7%) had a marked improvement in their depression state  27 (15.0%) and 12 (15.8%) had an improvement  49 (27.2%) and 33 (43.4%) failed  with the effective rates being 72.8% and 56.6% respectively. the markedly effective rate and the total effective rate of acupuncture group were significantly higher than those of medication group (p < 0.05). after the treatment  the total scores of sds and hrsd and the severity index of two groups decreased pronouncedly in comparison with those of their individual pre-treatment; and the therapeutic effects of acupuncture group were significantly better than those of medication group in reducing sds  hrsd and severity index (p < 0 .05). in addition  the decreased values of depression  pessimistic mood and irritability of acupuncture group were all bigger than those of medication group (p < 0.05). no significant difference was found between two groups in the decreased value of insomnia (p > 0.05). conclusion "acupuncture technique for restoring consciousness" can effectively improve depression patients' symptoms and the therapeutic effect of acupuncture is markedly superior to that of medication for post-stroke patients.
271,increased gene expression of brown fat uncoupling protein (ucp)1 and skeletal muscle ucp2 and ucp3 in mac16-induced cancer cachexia.,weight loss in cancer cachexia is attributable to decreased food intake and/or enhanced energy expenditure. we investigated the roles of the uncoupling proteins (ucps) ucpi  -2  and -3 in a murine model of cachexia  the mac16 adenocarcinoma. weight fell to 24% below that of non-tumor-bearing controls (p < 0.01) 18 days after mac16 inoculation  with significant reductions in fat-pad mass (-67%; p < 0.01) and muscle mass (-20%; p < 0.01). food intake was 26-60% lower (p < 0.01) than in controls on days 17-18. non-tumor-bearing mice  pair-fed to match mac16-induced hypophagia  showed less weight loss (10% below controls  p < 0.01; 16% above mac-16  p < 0.01) and smaller decreases in fat-pad mass (21% below controls  p < 0.01). core temperature in mac16 mice was significantly lower (-2.4 degrees c  p < 0.01) than in controls  and pair-feeding had no effect. mac16 mice showed significantly higher ucp1 mrna levels in brown adipose tissue (bat) than in controls (+63%  p < 0.01)  and pair-feeding had no effect. ucp2 and -3 expression in bat did not differ significantly between groups. by contrast  ucp2 mrna levels in skeletal muscle were comparably increased in both mac16 and pair-fed groups (respectively  183 and 163% above controls; both  p < 0.05)  with no significant difference between these two groups. similarly  ucp3 mrna was significantly higher than controls in both mac16 (+163%  p < 0.05) and pair-fed (+253%  p < 0.01) groups  with no significant difference between the two experimental groups. overexpression of ucp1 in bat in mac16-bearing mice may be an adaptive response to hypothermia  which is apparently induced by tumor products; increased thermogenesis in bat could increase total energy expenditure and  thus  contribute to tissue wasting. increased ucp2 and -3 expression in muscle are both attributable to reduced food intake and may be involved in lipid utilization during lipolysis in mac16-induced cachexia.
273,circulating mitochondrial dna in patients in the icu as a marker of mortality: derivation and validation,background mitochondrial dna (mtdna) is a critical activator of inflammation and the innate immune system. however  mtdna level has not been tested for its role as a biomarker in the intensive care unit (icu). we hypothesized that circulating cell-free mtdna levels would be associated with mortality and improve risk prediction in icu patients. methods and findings analyses of mtdna levels were performed on blood samples obtained from two prospective observational cohort studies of icu patients (the brigham and women's hospital registry of critical illness [bwh roci  n = 200] and molecular epidemiology of acute respiratory distress syndrome [me ards  n = 243]). mtdna levels in plasma were assessed by measuring the copy number of the nadh dehydrogenase 1 gene using quantitative real-time pcr. medical icu patients with an elevated mtdna level (≥3 200 copies/µl plasma) had increased odds of dying within 28 d of icu admission in both the bwh roci (odds ratio [or] 7.5  95% ci 3.6-15.8  p = 1×10(-7)) and me ards (or 8.4  95% ci 2.9-24.2  p = 9×10(-5)) cohorts  while no evidence for association was noted in non-medical icu patients. the addition of an elevated mtdna level improved the net reclassification index (nri) of 28-d mortality among medical icu patients when added to clinical models in both the bwh roci (nri 79%  standard error 14%  p<1×10(-4)) and me ards (nri 55%  standard error 20%  p = 0.007) cohorts. in the bwh roci cohort  those with an elevated mtdna level had an increased risk of death  even in analyses limited to patients with sepsis or acute respiratory distress syndrome. study limitations include the lack of data elucidating the concise pathological roles of mtdna in the patients  and the limited numbers of measurements for some of biomarkers. conclusions increased mtdna levels are associated with icu mortality  and inclusion of mtdna level improves risk prediction in medical icu patients. our data suggest that mtdna could serve as a viable plasma biomarker in medical icu patients.
275,lifeact: a versatile marker to visualize f-actin,live imaging of the actin cytoskeleton is crucial for the study of many fundamental biological processes  but current approaches to visualize actin have several limitations. here we describe lifeact  a 17-amino-acid peptide  which stained filamentous actin (f-actin) structures in eukaryotic cells and tissues. lifeact did not interfere with actin dynamics in vitro and in vivo and in its chemically modified peptide form allowed visualization of actin dynamics in nontransfectable cells.
277,improved variant discovery through local re-alignment of short-read next-generation sequencing data using srma,a primary component of next-generation sequencing analysis is to align short reads to a reference genome  with each read aligned independently. however  reads that observe the same non-reference dna sequence are highly correlated and can be used to better model the true variation in the target genome. a novel short-read micro realigner  srma  that leverages this correlation to better resolve a consensus of the underlying dna sequence of the targeted genome is described here.
279,the transcription factors egr2 and egr3 are essential for the control of inflammation and antigen-induced proliferation of b and t cells,lymphocytes provide optimal responses against pathogens with minimal inflammatory pathology. however  the intrinsic mechanisms regulating these responses are unknown. here  we report that deletion of both transcription factors egr2 and egr3 in lymphocytes resulted in a lethal autoimmune syndrome with excessive serum proinflammatory cytokines but also impaired antigen receptor-induced proliferation of b and t cells. egr2- and egr3-defective b and t cells had hyperactive signal transducer and activator of transcription-1 (stat1) and stat3 while antigen receptor-induced activation of transcription factor ap-1 was severely impaired. we discovered that egr2 and/or egr3 directly induced expression of suppressor of cytokine signaling-1 (socs1) and socs3  inhibitors of stat1 and stat3  and also blocked the function of batf  an ap-1 inhibitor  in b and t cells. thus  egr2 and egr3 regulate b and t cell function in adaptive immune responses and homeostasis by promoting antigen receptor signaling and controlling inflammation.
281,the bile acid chenodeoxycholic acid increases human brown adipose tissue activity.,the interest in brown adipose tissue (bat) as a target to combat metabolic disease has recently been renewed with the discovery of functional bat in humans. in rodents  bat can be activated by bile acids  which activate type 2 iodothyronine deiodinase (d2) in bat via the g-coupled protein receptor tgr5  resulting in increased oxygen consumption and energy expenditure. here we examined the effects of oral supplementation of the bile acid chenodeoxycholic acid (cdca) on human bat activity. treatment of 12 healthy female subjects with cdca for 2 days resulted in increased bat activity. whole-body energy expenditure was also increased upon cdca treatment. in vitro treatment of primary human brown adipocytes derived with cdca or specific tgr5 agonists increased mitochondrial uncoupling and d2 expression  an effect that was absent in human primary white adipocytes. these findings identify bile acids as a target to activate bat in humans.
283,selective elimination of high constitutive activity or chemokine binding in the human herpesvirus 8 encoded seven transmembrane oncogene orf74.,open reading frame 74 (orf74) encoded by human herpesvirus 8 is a highly constitutively active seven transmembrane (7tm) receptor stimulated by angiogenic chemokines  e.g. growth-related oncogene-alpha  and inhibited by angiostatic chemokines e.g. interferon-gamma-inducible protein. transgenic mice expressing orf74 under control of the cd2 promoter develop highly vascularized kaposi's sarcoma-like tumors. through targeted mutagenesis we here create three distinct phenotypes of orf74: a receptor with normal  high constitutive signaling through the phospholipase c pathway but deprived of binding and action of chemokines obtained through deletion of 22 amino acids from the n-terminal extension; an orf74 with high constitutive activity but with selective elimination of stimulatory regulation by angiogenic chemokines obtained through substitution of basic residues at the extracellular ends of tm-v or tm-vi; and an orf74 lacking constitutive activity but with preserved ability to be stimulated by agonist chemokines obtained through introduction of an asp residue on the hydrophobic  presumed membrane-exposed face of tm-ii. it is concluded that careful molecular dissection can selectively eliminate either agonist or inverse agonist modulation as well as high constitutive activity of the virally encoded oncogene orf74 and that these mutant forms presumably can be used in transgenic animals to identify the molecular mechanism of its transforming activity.
285,estimating prion concentration in fluids and tissues by quantitative pmca,prions  the proteinaceous infectious agent responsible for prion diseases  can be detected with high sensitivity by protein misfolding cyclic amplification (pmca) technology. here we describe a quantitative pmca procedure to calculate the concentration of very low levels of prions in biological samples. using this procedure  we determined the quantities of misfolded prion protein (prpsc) in brain  spleen  blood and urine of scrapie-affected hamsters.
287,amp-activated protein kinase: an ubiquitous signaling pathway with key roles in the cardiovascular system,the amp-activated protein kinase (ampk) is a key regulator of cellular and whole-body energy homeostasis  which acts to restore energy homoeostasis whenever cellular energy charge is depleted. over the last 2 decades  it has become apparent that ampk regulates several other cellular functions and has specific roles in cardiovascular tissues  acting to regulate cardiac metabolism and contractile function  as well as promoting anticontractile  anti-inflammatory  and antiatherogenic actions in blood vessels. in this review  we discuss the role of ampk in the cardiovascular system  including the molecular basis of mutations in ampk that alter cardiac physiology and the proposed mechanisms by which ampk regulates vascular function under physiological and pathophysiological conditions.
289,atg5-independent autophagy regulates mitochondrial clearance and is essential for ipsc reprogramming,successful generation of induced pluripotent stem cells entails a major metabolic switch from mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation to glycolysis during the reprogramming process. the mechanism of this metabolic reprogramming  however  remains elusive. here  our results suggest that an atg5-independent autophagic process mediates mitochondrial clearance  a characteristic event involved in the metabolic switch. we found that blocking such autophagy  but not canonical autophagy  inhibits mitochondrial clearance  in turn  preventing ipsc induction. furthermore  ampk seems to be upstream of this autophagic pathway and can be targeted by small molecules to modulate mitochondrial clearance during metabolic reprogramming. our work not only reveals that the atg5-independent autophagy is crucial for establishing pluripotency  but it also suggests that ipsc generation and tumorigenesis share a similar metabolic switch.
291,estimates of global prevalence of childhood underweight in 1990 and 2015.,context one key target of the united nations millennium development goals is to reduce the prevalence of underweight among children younger than 5 years by half between 1990 and 2015. objective to estimate trends in childhood underweight by geographic regions of the world. design  setting  and participants time series study of prevalence of underweight  defined as weight 2 sds below the mean weight for age of the national center for health statistics and world health organization (who) reference population. national prevalence rates derived from the who global database on child growth and malnutrition  which includes data on approximately 31 million children younger than 5 years who participated in 419 national nutritional surveys in 139 countries from 1965 through 2002. main outcome measures linear mixed-effects modeling was used to estimate prevalence rates and numbers of underweight children by region in 1990 and 2015 and to calculate the changes (ie  increase or decrease) to these values between 1990 and 2015. results worldwide  underweight prevalence was projected to decline from 26.5% in 1990 to 17.6% in 2015  a change of -34% (95% confidence interval [ci]  -43% to -23%). in developed countries  the prevalence was estimated to decrease from 1.6% to 0.9%  a change of -41% (95% ci  -92% to 343%). in developing regions  the prevalence was forecasted to decline from 30.2% to 19.3%  a change of -36% (95% ci  -45% to -26%). in africa  the prevalence of underweight was forecasted to increase from 24.0% to 26.8%  a change of 12% (95% ci  8%-16%). in asia  the prevalence was estimated to decrease from 35.1% to 18.5%  a change of -47% (95% ci  -58% to -34%). worldwide  the number of underweight children was projected to decline from 163.8 million in 1990 to 113.4 million in 2015  a change of -31% (95% ci  -40% to -20%). numbers are projected to decrease in all subregions except the subregions of sub-saharan  eastern  middle  and western africa  which are expected to experience substantial increases in the number of underweight children. conclusions an overall improvement in the global situation is anticipated; however  neither the world as a whole  nor the developing regions  are expected to achieve the millennium development goals. this is largely due to the deteriorating situation in africa where all subregions  except northern africa  are expected to fail to meet the goal.
293,bone progenitor dysfunction induces myelodysplasia and secondary leukemia,mesenchymal cells contribute to the 'stroma' of most normal and malignant tissues  with specific mesenchymal cells participating in the regulatory niches of stem cells. by examining how mesenchymal osteolineage cells modulate haematopoiesis  here we show that deletion of dicer1 specifically in mouse osteoprogenitors  but not in mature osteoblasts  disrupts the integrity of haematopoiesis. myelodysplasia resulted and acute myelogenous leukaemia emerged that had acquired several genetic abnormalities while having intact dicer1. examining gene expression altered in osteoprogenitors as a result of dicer1 deletion showed reduced expression of sbds  the gene mutated in schwachman-bodian-diamond syndrome-a human bone marrow failure and leukaemia pre-disposition condition. deletion of sbds in mouse osteoprogenitors induced bone marrow dysfunction with myelodysplasia. therefore  perturbation of specific mesenchymal subsets of stromal cells can disorder differentiation  proliferation and apoptosis of heterologous cells  and disrupt tissue homeostasis. furthermore  primary stromal dysfunction can result in secondary neoplastic disease  supporting the concept of niche-induced oncogenesis.
295,oct4-induced pluripotency in adult neural stem cells,the four transcription factors oct4  sox2  klf4  and c-myc can induce pluripotency in mouse and human fibroblasts. we previously described direct reprogramming of adult mouse neural stem cells (nscs) by oct4 and either klf4 or c-myc. nscs endogenously express sox2  c-myc  and klf4 as well as several intermediate reprogramming markers. here we report that exogenous expression of the germline-specific transcription factor oct4 is sufficient to generate pluripotent stem cells from adult mouse nscs. these one-factor induced pluripotent stem cells (1f ips) are similar to embryonic stem cells in vitro and in vivo. not only can these cells can be efficiently differentiated into nscs  cardiomyocytes  and germ cells in vitro  but they are also capable of teratoma formation and germline transmission in vivo. our results demonstrate that oct4 is required and sufficient to directly reprogram nscs to pluripotency.
297,pcna functions as a molecular platform to trigger cdt1 destruction and prevent re-replication,ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis of the replication licensing factor cdt1 (cdc10-dependent transcript 1) in s phase is a key mechanism that limits dna replication to a single round per cell cycle in metazoans. in xenopus egg extracts  cdt1 is destroyed on chromatin during dna replication. here  we report that replication-dependent proteolysis of cdt1 requires its interaction with proliferating cell nuclear antigen (pcna)  a homotrimeric processivity factor for dna polymerases. cdt1 binds to pcna through a consensus pcna-interaction motif that is conserved in cdt1 of all metazoans  and removal of pcna from egg extracts inhibits replication-dependent cdt1 destruction. mutation of the pcna-interaction motif yields a stabilized cdt1 protein that induces re-replication. ddb1  a component of the cul4 e3 ubiquitin ligase that mediates human cdt1 proteolysis in response to dna damage  is also required for replication-dependent cdt1 destruction. cdt1 and ddb1 interact in extracts  and ddb1 chromatin loading is dependent on the binding of cdt1 to pcna  which indicates that pcna docking activates the pre-formed cdt1–cul4ddb1 ligase complex. thus  pcna functions as a platform for cdt1 destruction  ensuring efficient and temporally restricted inactivation of a key cell-cycle regulator.
299,effect of physical activity on cognitive function in older adults at risk for alzheimer disease: a randomized trial.,context many observational studies have shown that physical activity reduces the risk of cognitive decline; however  evidence from randomized trials is lacking. objective to determine whether physical activity reduces the rate of cognitive decline among older adults at risk. design and setting randomized controlled trial of a 24-week physical activity intervention conducted between 2004 and 2007 in metropolitan perth  western australia. assessors of cognitive function were blinded to group membership. participants we recruited volunteers who reported memory problems but did not meet criteria for dementia. three hundred eleven individuals aged 50 years or older were screened for eligibility  89 were not eligible  and 52 refused to participate. a total of 170 participants were randomized and 138 participants completed the 18-month assessment. intervention participants were randomly allocated to an education and usual care group or to a 24-week home-based program of physical activity. main outcome measure change in alzheimer disease assessment scale-cognitive subscale (adas-cog) scores (possible range  0-70) over 18 months. results in an intent-to-treat analysis  participants in the intervention group improved 0.26 points (95% confidence interval  -0.89 to 0.54) and those in the usual care group deteriorated 1.04 points (95% confidence interval  0.32 to 1.82) on the adas-cog at the end of the intervention. the absolute difference of the outcome measure between the intervention and control groups was -1.3 points (95% confidence interval -2.38 to -0.22) at the end of the intervention. at 18 months  participants in the intervention group improved 0.73 points (95% confidence interval  -1.27 to 0.03) on the adas-cog  and those in the usual care group improved 0.04 points (95% confidence interval  -0.46 to 0.88). word list delayed recall and clinical dementia rating sum of boxes improved modestly as well  whereas word list total immediate recall  digit symbol coding  verbal fluency  beck depression score  and medical outcomes 36-item short-form physical and mental component summaries did not change significantly. conclusions in this study of adults with subjective memory impairment  a 6-month program of physical activity provided a modest improvement in cognition over an 18-month follow-up period. trial registration anzctr.org.au identifier: actrn12605000136606.
301,long non-coding rna profiling of human lymphoid progenitor cells reveals transcriptional divergence of b cell and t cell lineages,to elucidate the transcriptional 'landscape' that regulates human lymphoid commitment during postnatal life  we used rna sequencing to assemble the long non-coding transcriptome across human bone marrow and thymic progenitor cells spanning the earliest stages of b lymphoid and t lymphoid specification. over 3 000 genes encoding previously unknown long non-coding rnas (lncrnas) were revealed through the analysis of these rare populations. lymphoid commitment was characterized by lncrna expression patterns that were highly stage specific and were more lineage specific than those of protein-coding genes. protein-coding genes co-expressed with neighboring lncrna genes showed enrichment for ontologies related to lymphoid differentiation. the exquisite cell-type specificity of global lncrna expression patterns independently revealed new developmental relationships among the earliest progenitor cells in the human bone marrow and thymus.
303,clasps link focal adhesion-associated microtubule capture to localized exocytosis and adhesion site turnover,turnover of integrin-based focal adhesions (fas) with the extracellular matrix (ecm) is essential for coordinated cell movement. in collectively migrating human keratinocytes  fas assemble near the leading edge  grow and mature as a result of contractile forces and disassemble underneath the advancing cell body. we report that clustering of microtubule-associated clasp1 and clasp2 proteins around fas temporally correlates with fa turnover. clasps and ll5β (also known as phldb2)  which recruits clasps to fas  facilitate fa disassembly. clasps are further required for fa-associated ecm degradation  and matrix metalloprotease inhibition slows fa disassembly similarly to clasp or phldb2 (ll5β) depletion. finally  clasp-mediated microtubule tethering at fas establishes an fa-directed transport pathway for delivery  docking and localized fusion of exocytic vesicles near fas. we propose that clasps couple microtubule organization  vesicle transport and cell interactions with the ecm  establishing a local secretion pathway that facilitates fa turnover by severing cell-matrix connections.
305,myocardial muscarinic receptor upregulation and normal response to isoproterenol in denervated hearts by familial amyloid polyneuropathy.,background patients with familial amyloid polyneuropathy  a rare hereditary form of amyloidosis  have progressive autonomic neuropathy. the disease usually does not induce heart failure but is associated with sudden death  conduction disturbances  and an increased risk of complications during anesthesia. although cardiac sympathetic denervation has been clearly demonstrated  the postsynaptic status of the cardiac autonomic nervous system remains unelucidated. methods and results twenty-one patients were studied (age  39+/-11 years; normal coronary arteries; left ventricular ejection fraction 68+/-9%). to evaluate the density and affinity constants of myocardial muscarinic receptors  pet with (11)c-mqnb (methylquinuclidinyl benzilate)  a specific hydrophilic antagonist  was used. cardiac beta-receptor functional efficiency was studied by the heart rate (hr) response to intravenous infusion of isoproterenol (5 minutes after 2 mg of atropine  5  10  and 15 ng/kg per minute during 5 minutes per step). the mean muscarinic receptor density was higher in patients than in control subjects (b'(max)  35.5+/-8.9 versus 26.1+/-6.7 pmol/ml  p=0.003)  without change in receptor affinity. the increase in hr after injection of atropine as well as of mqnb was lower in patients compared with control subjects despite a similar basal hr (deltahr after atropine  11+/-21% versus 62+/-17%; p<0.001)  consistent with parasympathetic denervation. incremental infusion of isoproterenol induced a similar increase in hr in patients and control subjects. conclusions cardiac autonomic denervation in familial amyloid polyneuropathy results in an upregulation of myocardial muscarinic receptors but without change in cardiac beta-receptor responsiveness to catecholamines.
307,plant nuclear rna polymerase iv mediates sirna and dna methylation-dependent heterochromatin formation,all eukaryotes have three nuclear dna-dependent rna polymerases  namely  pol i  ii  and iii. interestingly  plants have catalytic subunits for a fourth nuclear polymerase  pol iv. genetic and biochemical evidence indicates that pol iv does not functionally overlap with pol i  ii  or iii and is nonessential for viability. however  disruption of the pol iv catalytic subunit genes nrpd1 or nrpd2 inhibits heterochromatin association into chromocenters  coincident with losses in cytosine methylation at pericentromeric 5s gene clusters and atsn1 retroelements. loss of cg  cng  and cnn methylation in pol iv mutants implicates a partnership between pol iv and the methyltransferase responsible for rna-directed de novo methylation. consistent with this hypothesis  5s gene and atsn1 sirnas are essentially eliminated in pol iv mutants. the data suggest that pol iv helps produce sirnas that target de novo cytosine methylation events required for facultative heterochromatin formation and higher-order heterochromatin associations.
309,direct lineage reprogramming: strategies  mechanisms  and applications.,the direct lineage reprogramming of one specialized cell type into another using defined factors has fundamentally re-shaped traditional concepts regarding the epigenetic stability of differentiated cells. with the rapid increase in cell types generated through direct conversion in recent years  this strategy has become a promising approach for producing functional cells. here  we review recent advances in lineage reprogramming  including the identification of novel reprogramming factors  underlying molecular mechanisms  strategies for generating functionally mature cells  and assays for characterizing induced cells. we also discuss progress toward the application of lineage reprogramming and the major future challenges for this strategy.
311,hyperglycemia is associated with increased bone mineral density and decreased trabecular bone score in elderly japanese men: the fujiwara-kyo osteoporosis risk in men (formen) study.,purpose patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (t2dm) have an increased fracture risk despite having higher areal bone mineral density (abmd). this study aimed to clarify the association between glycemic and insulin resistance status and bone microarchitecture  and whether pentosidine and bone turnover markers play any roles in the association. methods a total of 2012 community-dwelling men aged ≥65years completed baseline measurements of spine abmd  fasting plasma glucose (fpg) and serum insulin  hemoglobin a1c (hba1c)  osteocalcin  type i procollagen n-terminal propeptide  type i collagen c-terminal crosslinking telopeptide  tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase isoenzyme 5b  pentosidine  height and weight and an interview regarding past disease history. homeostasis model assessment-insulin resistance (homa-ir) was also calculated. t2dm was defined as physician-diagnosed middle age or elderly-onset diabetes mellitus  or according to biochemical test results. to evaluate bone microarchitecture  trabecular bone score (tbs) was calculated at the same vertebrae as those used for abmd measurement. results after excluding participants who had a disease history and/or were taking medications affecting bone metabolism  1683 men (age  72.9±5.2years) were analyzed. men with t2dm had significantly higher abmd compared to those without t2dm. there was no significant difference in tbs. however  fpg  hba1c and homa-ir levels were significantly inversely correlated with tbs after adjusting for age  bmi and abmd. multivariate linear regression analyses revealed that glycemic indices (fpg and hba1c) were significantly associated with increased abmd and decreased tbs  and that homa-ir was associated only with tbs. these associations did not change after further adjusting for bone turnover makers and pentosidine levels. conclusions hyperglycemia and elevated insulin-resistance were associated with low tbs independently of bone turnover and pentosidine levels.
313,exosomal transfer of stroma-derived mir21 confers paclitaxel resistance in ovarian cancer cells through targeting apaf1,advanced ovarian cancer usually spreads to the visceral adipose tissue of the omentum. however  the omental stromal cell-derived molecular determinants that modulate ovarian cancer growth have not been characterized. here  using next-generation sequencing technology  we identify significantly higher levels of microrna-21 (mir21) isomirnas in exosomes and tissue lysates isolated from cancer-associated adipocytes (caas) and fibroblasts (cafs) than in those from ovarian cancer cells. functional studies reveal that mir21 is transferred from caas or cafs to the cancer cells  where it suppresses ovarian cancer apoptosis and confers chemoresistance by binding to its direct novel target  apaf1. these data suggest that the malignant phenotype of metastatic ovarian cancer cells can be altered by mir21 delivered by exosomes derived from neighbouring stromal cells in the omental tumour microenvironment  and that inhibiting the transfer of stromal-derived mir21 is an alternative modality in the treatment of metastatic and recurrent ovarian cancer.
315,the polycomb group protein suz12 is required for embryonic stem cell differentiation.,polycomb group (pcg) proteins form multiprotein complexes  called polycomb repressive complexes (prcs). prc2 contains the pcg proteins ezh2  suz12  and eed and represses transcription through methylation of lysine (k) 27 of histone h3 (h3). suz12 is essential for prc2 activity and its inactivation results in early lethality of mouse embryos. here  we demonstrate that suz12(-/-) mouse embryonic stem (es) cells can be established and expanded in tissue culture. the suz12(-/-) es cells are characterized by global loss of h3k27 trimethylation (h3k27me3) and higher expression levels of differentiation-specific genes. moreover  suz12(-/-) es cells are impaired in proper differentiation  resulting in a lack of repression of es cell markers as well as activation of differentiation-specific genes. finally  we demonstrate that the pcgs are actively recruited to several genes during es cell differentiation  which despite an increase in h3k27me3 levels is not always sufficient to prevent transcriptional activation. in summary  we demonstrate that suz12 is required for the establishment of specific expression programs required for es cell differentiation. furthermore  we provide evidence that pcgs have different mechanisms to regulate transcription during cellular differentiation.
317,innate immune and chemically triggered oxidative stress modifies translational fidelity,translational fidelity  essential for protein and cell function  requires accurate transfer rna (trna) aminoacylation. purified aminoacyl-trna synthetases exhibit a fidelity of one error per 10 000 to 100 000 couplings. the accuracy of trna aminoacylation in vivo is uncertain  however  and might be considerably lower. here we show that in mammalian cells  approximately 1% of methionine (met) residues used in protein synthesis are aminoacylated to non-methionyl-trnas. remarkably  met-misacylation increases up to tenfold upon exposing cells to live or non-infectious viruses  toll-like receptor ligands or chemically induced oxidative stress. met is misacylated to specific non-methionyl-trna families  and these met-misacylated trnas are used in translation. met-misacylation is blocked by an inhibitor of cellular oxidases  implicating reactive oxygen species (ros) as the misacylation trigger. among six amino acids tested  trna misacylation occurs exclusively with met. as met residues are known to protect proteins against ros-mediated damage  we propose that met-misacylation functions adaptively to increase met incorporation into proteins to protect cells against oxidative stress. in demonstrating an unexpected conditional aspect of decoding mrna  our findings illustrate the importance of considering alternative iterations of the genetic code.
319,the effect of combination treatment with aliskiren and blockers of the renin-angiotensin system on hyperkalaemia and acute kidney injury: systematic review and meta-analysis,objective to examine the safety of using aliskiren combined with agents used to block the renin-angiotensin system. design systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials. data sources medline  embase  the cochrane library  and two trial registries  published up to 7 may 2011. study selection published and unpublished randomised controlled trials that compared combined treatment using aliskiren and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers with monotherapy using these agents for at least four weeks and that provided numerical data on the adverse event outcomes of hyperkalaemia and acute kidney injury. a random effects model was used to calculate pooled risk ratios and 95% confidence intervals for these outcomes. results 10 randomised controlled studies (4814 participants) were included in the analysis. combination therapy with aliskiren and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers significantly increased the risk of hyperkalaemia compared with monotherapy using angiotensin converting enzymes or angiotensin receptor blockers (relative risk 1.58  95% confidence interval 1.24 to 2.02) or aliskiren alone (1.67  1.01 to 2.79). the risk of acute kidney injury did not differ significantly between the combined therapy and monotherapy groups (1.14  0.68 to 1.89). conclusion use of aliskerin in combination with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers is associated with an increased risk for hyperkalaemia. the combined use of these agents warrants careful monitoring of serum potassium levels.
321,synaptic islands defined by the territory of a single astrocyte.,in the mammalian brain  astrocytes modulate neuronal function  in part  by synchronizing neuronal firing and coordinating synaptic networks. little  however  is known about how this is accomplished from a structural standpoint. to investigate the structural basis of astrocyte-mediated neuronal synchrony and synaptic coordination  the three-dimensional relationships between cortical astrocytes and neurons was investigated. using a transgenic and viral approach to label astrocytes with enhanced green fluorescent protein  we performed a three-dimensional reconstruction of astrocytes from tissue sections or live animals in vivo. we found that cortical astrocytes occupy nonoverlapping territories similar to those described in the hippocampus. using immunofluorescence labeling of neuronal somata  a single astrocyte enwraps on average four neuronal somata with an upper limit of eight. single-neuron dye-fills allowed us to estimate that one astrocyte contacts 300-600 neuronal dendrites. together with the recent findings showing that glial ca2+ signaling is restricted to individual astrocytes in vivo  and that ca2+ signaling leads to gliotransmission  we propose the concept of functional islands of synapses in which groups of synapses confined within the boundaries of an individual astrocyte are modulated by the gliotransmitter environment controlled by that astrocyte. our description offers a new structurally based conceptual framework to evaluate functional data involving interactions between neurons and astrocytes in the mammalian brain.
323,socioeconomic factors  material inequalities  and perceived control in self-rated health: cross-sectional data from seven post-communist countries.,this study examined the association between perceived control and several socioeconomic variables and self-rated health in seven post-communist countries (russia  estonia  lithuania  latvia  hungary  poland  czech republic). questionnaire interviews were used to collect data on self-rated health in the last 12 months  education  marital status  perceived control based on nine questions  and material deprivation based on availability of food  clothing and heating. for each population  two ecological measures of material inequalities were available: an inequality score estimated from the survey data as the distance between the 90th and 10th percentiles of material deprivation  and gini coefficient from published sources. data on 5330 men and women aged 20-60 were analysed. prevalence of poor health (worse than average) varied between 8% in czechs and 19% in hungarians. the age-sex-adjusted odds ratio for university vs primary education was 0.36 (0.26-0.49); odds ratios per 1 standard deviation increase in perceived control and in material deprivation were 0.58 (95% ci 0.48-0.69) and 1.51 (1.40-1.63)  respectively. the odds ratio for an increase in inequality equivalent to the difference between the most and the least unequal populations was 1.49 (0.88-2.52) using the material inequality score and 1.41 (0.91-2.20) using the gini coefficient. no indication of an effect of either inequality measure was seen after adjustment for individuals' deprivation or perceived control. the results suggest that  as in western populations  education and material deprivation are strongly related to self-rated health. perceived control appeared statistically to mediate some of the effects of material deprivation. the non-significant effects of both ecological measures of inequality were eliminated by controlling for individuals' characteristics.
325,genomewide analysis of prc1 and prc2 occupancy identifies two classes of bivalent domains,in embryonic stem (es) cells  bivalent chromatin domains with overlapping repressive (h3 lysine 27 tri-methylation) and activating (h3 lysine 4 tri-methylation) histone modifications mark the promoters of more than 2 000 genes. to gain insight into the structure and function of bivalent domains  we mapped key histone modifications and subunits of polycomb-repressive complexes 1 and 2 (prc1 and prc2) genomewide in human and mouse es cells by chromatin immunoprecipitation  followed by ultra high-throughput sequencing. we find that bivalent domains can be segregated into two classes -- the first occupied by both prc2 and prc1 (prc1-positive) and the second specifically bound by prc2 (prc2-only). prc1-positive bivalent domains appear functionally distinct as they more efficiently retain lysine 27 tri-methylation upon differentiation  show stringent conservation of chromatin state  and associate with an overwhelming number of developmental regulator gene promoters. we also used computational genomics to search for sequence determinants of polycomb binding. this analysis revealed that the genomewide locations of prc2 and prc1 can be largely predicted from the locations  sizes  and underlying motif contents of cpg islands. we propose that large cpg islands depleted of activating motifs confer epigenetic memory by recruiting the full repertoire of polycomb complexes in pluripotent cells.
327,control of apoptosis by asymmetric cell division,asymmetric cell division and apoptosis (programmed cell death) are two fundamental processes that are important for the development and function of multicellular organisms. we have found that the processes of asymmetric cell division and apoptosis can be functionally linked. specifically  we show that asymmetric cell division in the nematode caenorhabditis elegans is mediated by a pathway involving three genes  dnj-11 mida1  ces-2 hlf  and ces-1 snail  that directly control the enzymatic machinery responsible for apoptosis. interestingly  the mida1-like protein glsa of the alga volvox carteri  as well as the snail-related proteins snail  escargot  and worniu of drosophila melanogaster  have previously been implicated in asymmetric cell division. therefore  c. elegans dnj-11 mida1  ces-2 hlf  and ces-1 snail may be components of a pathway involved in asymmetric cell division that is conserved throughout the plant and animal kingdoms. furthermore  based on our results  we propose that this pathway directly controls the apoptotic fate in c. elegans  and possibly other animals as well.
329,modelling the impact of artemisinin combination therapy and long-acting treatments on malaria transmission intensity,background artemisinin derivatives used in recently introduced combination therapies (acts) for plasmodium falciparum malaria significantly lower patient infectiousness and have the potential to reduce population-level transmission of the parasite. with the increased interest in malaria elimination  understanding the impact on transmission of act and other antimalarial drugs with different pharmacodynamics becomes a key issue. this study estimates the reduction in transmission that may be achieved by introducing different types of treatment for symptomatic p. falciparum malaria in endemic areas. methods and findings we developed a mathematical model to predict the potential impact on transmission outcomes of introducing act as first-line treatment for uncomplicated malaria in six areas of varying transmission intensity in tanzania. we also estimated the impact that could be achieved by antimalarials with different efficacy  prophylactic time  and gametocytocidal effects. rates of treatment  asymptomatic infection  and symptomatic infection in the six study areas were estimated using the model together with data from a cross-sectional survey of 5 667 individuals conducted prior to policy change from sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine to act. the effects of act and other drug types on gametocytaemia and infectiousness to mosquitoes were independently estimated from clinical trial data. predicted percentage reductions in prevalence of infection and incidence of clinical episodes achieved by act were highest in the areas with low initial transmission. a 53% reduction in prevalence of infection was seen if 100% of current treatment was switched to act in the area where baseline slide-prevalence of parasitaemia was lowest (3.7%)  compared to an 11% reduction in the highest-transmission setting (baseline slide prevalence = 57.1%). estimated percentage reductions in incidence of clinical episodes were similar. the absolute size of the public health impact  however  was greater in the highest-transmission area  with 54 clinical episodes per 100 persons per year averted compared to five per 100 persons per year in the lowest-transmission area. high coverage was important. reducing presumptive treatment through improved diagnosis substantially reduced the number of treatment courses required per clinical episode averted in the lower-transmission settings although there was some loss of overall impact on transmission. an efficacious antimalarial regimen with no specific gametocytocidal properties but a long prophylactic time was estimated to be more effective at reducing transmission than a short-acting act in the highest-transmission setting. conclusions our results suggest that acts have the potential for transmission reductions approaching those achieved by insecticide-treated nets in lower-transmission settings. act partner drugs and nonartemisinin regimens with longer prophylactic times could result in a larger impact in higher-transmission settings  although their long term benefit must be evaluated in relation to the risk of development of parasite resistance.
331,association between adhd and obesity: a systematic review and meta-analysis.,objective impulsivity and inattention related to attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (adhd) may increase food intake and  consequently  weight gain. however  findings on the association between obesity/overweight and adhd are mixed. the authors conducted a meta-analysis to estimate this association. method a broad range of databases was searched through aug. 31  2014. unpublished studies were also obtained. study quality was rated with the newcastle-ottawa scale. random-effects models were used. results forty-two studies that included a total of 728 136 individuals (48 161 adhd subjects; 679 975 comparison subjects) were retained. a significant association between obesity and adhd was found for both children (odds ratio=1.20  95% ci=1.05-1.37) and adults (odds ratio=1.55  95% ci=1.32-1.81). the pooled prevalence of obesity was increased by about 70% in adults with adhd (28.2%  95% ci=22.8-34.4) compared with those without adhd (16.4%  95% ci=13.4-19.9)  and by about 40% in children with adhd (10.3%  95% ci=7.9-13.3) compared with those without adhd (7.4%  95% ci=5.4-10.1). the significant association between adhd and obesity remained when limited to studies 1) reporting odds ratios adjusted for possible confounding factors; 2) diagnosing adhd by direct interview; and 3) using directly measured height and weight. gender  study setting  study country  and study quality did not moderate the association between obesity and adhd. adhd was also significantly associated with overweight. individuals medicated for adhd were not at higher risk of obesity. conclusions this study provides meta-analytic evidence for a significant association between adhd and obesity/overweight. further research should address possible underlying mechanisms and the long-term effects of adhd treatments on weight in individuals with both adhd and obesity.
333,comprehensive genomic characterization defines human glioblastoma genes and core pathways,human cancer cells typically harbour multiple chromosomal aberrations  nucleotide substitutions and epigenetic modifications that drive malignant transformation. the cancer genome atlas ( tcga) pilot project aims to assess the value of large- scale multi- dimensional analysis of these molecular characteristics in human cancer and to provide the data rapidly to the research community. here we report the interim integrative analysis of dna copy number  gene expression and dna methylation aberrations in 206 glioblastomas - the most common type of primary adult brain cancer - and nucleotide sequence aberrations in 91 of the 206 glioblastomas. this analysis provides new insights into the roles of erbb2  nf1 and tp53  uncovers frequent mutations of the phosphatidylinositol- 3- oh kinase regulatory subunit gene pik3r1  and provides a network view of the pathways altered in the development of glioblastoma. furthermore  integration of mutation  dna methylation and clinical treatment data reveals a link between mgmt promoter methylation and a hypermutator phenotype consequent to mismatch repair deficiency in treated glioblastomas  an observation with potential clinical implications. together  these findings establish the feasibility and power of tcga  demonstrating that it can rapidly expand knowledge of the molecular basis of cancer.
335,epigenetic control of stem cell potential during homeostasis  aging  and disease.,stem cell decline is an important cellular driver of aging-associated pathophysiology in multiple tissues. epigenetic regulation is central to establishing and maintaining stem cell function  and emerging evidence indicates that epigenetic dysregulation contributes to the altered potential of stem cells during aging. unlike terminally differentiated cells  the impact of epigenetic dysregulation in stem cells is propagated beyond self; alterations can be heritably transmitted to differentiated progeny  in addition to being perpetuated and amplified within the stem cell pool through self-renewal divisions. this review focuses on recent studies examining epigenetic regulation of tissue-specific stem cells in homeostasis  aging  and aging-related disease.
337,a crucial role for interleukin (il)-1 in the induction of il-17–producing t cells that mediate autoimmune encephalomyelitis,it was recently demonstrated that interleukin (il)-23–driven il-17–producing (thil-17) t cells mediate inflammatory pathology in certain autoimmune diseases. we show that the induction of antigen-specific thil-17 cells  but not t helper (th)1 or th2 cells  by immunization with antigens and adjuvants is abrogated in il-1 receptor type i–deficient (il-1ri−/−) mice. furthermore  the incidence of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (eae) was significantly lower in il-1ri−/− compared with wild-type mice  and this correlated with a failure to induce autoantigen-specific thil-17 cells  whereas induction of th1 and th2 responses was not substantially different. however  eae was induced in il-1ri−/− mice by adoptive transfer of autoantigen-specific cells from wild-type mice with eae. il-23 alone did not induce il-17 production by t cells from il-1ri−/− mice  and il-23–induced il-17 production was substantially enhanced by il-1α or il-1β  even in the absence of t cell receptor stimulation. we demonstrate essential roles for phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase  nuclear factor κb  and novel protein kinase c isoforms in il-1– and il-23–mediated il-17 production. tumor necrosis factor α also synergized with il-23 to enhance il-17 production  and this was il-1 dependent. our findings demonstrate that il-1 functions upstream of il-17 to promote pathogenic thil-17 cells in eae.
339,getting to the site of inflammation: the leukocyte adhesion cascade updated,neutrophil recruitment  lymphocyte recirculation and monocyte trafficking all require adhesion and transmigration through blood-vessel walls. the traditional three steps of rolling  activation and firm adhesion have recently been augmented and refined. slow rolling  adhesion strengthening  intraluminal crawling and paracellular and transcellular migration are now recognized as separate  additional steps. in neutrophils  a second activation pathway has been discovered that does not require signalling through g-protein-coupled receptors and the signalling steps leading to integrin activation are beginning to emerge. this review focuses on new aspects of one of the central paradigms of inflammation and immunity — the leukocyte adhesion cascade.
341,planning for postdisaster resiliency,the focus of this article is planning for resiliency in the aftermath of a catastrophe. first  the authors offer their conception of planning for resiliency as a goal for recovering communities  and the benefits of planning in efforts to create more resilient places. next  they discuss major issues associated with planning for postdisaster recovery  including barriers posed by federal and state governments to planning for resiliency  the promise and risks of compact urban form models for guiding rebuilding  and the failure to involve citizens in planning for disasters. finally  they discuss lessons from prior research that address these issues and policy recommendations that foster predisaster recovery planning for resilient communities.
343,kif3a/b: a heterodimeric kinesin superfamily protein that works as a microtubule plus end-directed motor for membrane organelle transport,we cloned a new member of the murine brain kinesin superfamily  kif3b  and found that its amino acid sequence is highly homologous but not identical to kif3a  which we previously cloned and named kif3 (47% identical). kif3b is localized in various organ tissues and developing neurons of mice and accumulates with anterogradely moving membranous organelles after ligation of nerve axons. immunoprecipitation assay of the brain revealed that kif3b forms a complex with kif3a and three other high molecular weight (approximately 100 kd)-associated polypeptides  called the kinesin superfamily-associated protein 3 (kap3). in vitro reconstruction using baculovirus expression systems showed that kif3a and kif3b directly bind with each other in the absence of kap3. the recombinant kif3a/b complex (approximately 50-nm rod with two globular heads and a single globular tail) demonstrated plus end-directed microtubule sliding activity in vitro. in addition  we showed that kif3b itself has motor activity in vitro  by making a complex of wild-type kif3b and a chimeric motor protein (kif3b head and kif3a rod tail). subcellular fractionation of mouse brain homogenates showed a considerable amount of the native kif3 complex to be associated with membrane fractions other than synaptic vesicles. immunoprecipitation by anti-kif3b antibody-conjugated beads and its electron microscopic study also revealed that kif3 is associated with membranous organelles. moreover  we found that the composition of kap3 is different in the brain and testis. our findings suggest that kif3b forms a heterodimer with kif3a and functions as a new microtubule-based anterograde translocator for membranous organelles  and that kap3 may determine functional diversity of the kif3 complex in various kinds of cells in vivo.
345,beyond melanoma: inhibiting the pd-1/pd-l1 pathway in solid tumors.,immune checkpoint inhibitors have been identified as breakthrough treatment in melanoma given its dramatic response to pd-1/pd-l1 blockade. this is likely to extend to many other cancers as hundreds of clinical trials are being conducted or proposed using this exciting modality of therapy in a variety of malignancies. while immune checkpoint inhibitors have been extensively studied in melanoma and more recently in lung cancer  little is known regarding immune checkpoint blockade in other cancers. this review will focus on the tumor immune microenvironment  the expression of pd-1/pd-l1 and the effect of immune modulation using pd-1 or pd-l1 inhibitors in patients with head and neck  prostate  urothelial  renal  breast  gastrointestinal and lung cancers.
347,extracellular vesicles from human cardiac progenitor cells inhibit cardiomyocyte apoptosis and improve cardiac function after myocardial infarction.,aims recent evidence suggests that cardiac progenitor cells (cpcs) may improve cardiac function after injury. the underlying mechanisms are indirect  but their mediators remain unidentified. exosomes and other secreted membrane vesicles  hereafter collectively referred to as extracellular vesicles (evs)  act as paracrine signalling mediators. here  we report that evs secreted by human cpcs are crucial cardioprotective agents. methods and results cpcs were derived from atrial appendage explants from patients who underwent heart valve surgery. cpc-conditioned medium (cm) inhibited apoptosis in mouse hl-1 cardiomyocytic cells  while enhancing tube formation in human umbilical vein endothelial cells. these effects were abrogated by depleting cm of evs. they were reproduced by evs secreted by cpcs  but not by those secreted by human dermal fibroblasts. transmission electron microscopy and nanoparticle tracking analysis showed most evs to be 30-90 nm in diameter  the size of exosomes  although smaller and larger vesicles were also present. micrornas most highly enriched in evs secreted by cpcs compared with fibroblasts included mir-210  mir-132  and mir-146a-3p. mir-210 down-regulated its known targets  ephrin a3 and ptp1b  inhibiting apoptosis in cardiomyocytic cells. mir-132 down-regulated its target  rasgap-p120  enhancing tube formation in endothelial cells. infarcted hearts injected with evs from cpcs  but not from fibroblasts  exhibited less cardiomyocyte apoptosis  enhanced angiogenesis  and improved lv ejection fraction (0.8 ± 6.8 vs. -21.3 ± 4.5%; p < 0.05) compared with those injected with control medium. conclusion evs are the active component of the paracrine secretion by human cpcs. as a cell-free approach  evs could circumvent many of the limitations of cell transplantation.
349,lpcat3-dependent production of arachidonoyl phospholipids is a key determinant of triglyceride secretion,the role of specific phospholipids (pls) in lipid transport has been difficult to assess due to an inability to selectively manipulate membrane composition in vivo. here we show that the phospholipid remodeling enzyme lysophosphatidylcholine acyltransferase 3 (lpcat3) is a critical determinant of triglyceride (tg) secretion due to its unique ability to catalyze the incorporation of arachidonate into membranes. mice lacking lpcat3 in the intestine fail to thrive during weaning and exhibit enterocyte lipid accumulation and reduced plasma tgs. mice lacking lpcat3 in the liver show reduced plasma tgs  hepatosteatosis  and secrete lipid-poor very low-density lipoprotein (vldl) lacking arachidonoyl pls. mechanistic studies indicate that lpcat3 activity impacts membrane lipid mobility in living cells  suggesting a biophysical basis for the requirement of arachidonoyl pls in lipidating lipoprotein particles. these data identify lpcat3 as a key factor in lipoprotein production and illustrate how manipulation of membrane composition can be used as a regulatory mechanism to control metabolic pathways.
351,primary cilia and coordination of receptor tyrosine kinase (rtk) signalling.,primary cilia are microtubule-based sensory organelles that coordinate signalling pathways in cell-cycle control  migration  differentiation and other cellular processes critical during development and for tissue homeostasis. accordingly  defects in assembly or function of primary cilia lead to a plethora of developmental disorders and pathological conditions now known as ciliopathies. in this review  we summarize the current status of the role of primary cilia in coordinating receptor tyrosine kinase (rtk) signalling pathways. further  we present potential mechanisms of signalling crosstalk and networking in the primary cilium and discuss how defects in ciliary rtk signalling are linked to human diseases and disorders.
353,forces in tissue morphogenesis and patterning,during development  mechanical forces cause changes in size  shape  number  position  and gene expression of cells. they are therefore integral to any morphogenetic processes. force generation by actin-myosin networks and force transmission through adhesive complexes are two self-organizing phenomena driving tissue morphogenesis. coordination and integration of forces by long-range force transmission and mechanosensing of cells within tissues produce large-scale tissue shape changes. extrinsic mechanical forces also control tissue patterning by modulating cell fate specification and differentiation. thus  the interplay between tissue mechanics and biochemical signaling orchestrates tissue morphogenesis and patterning in development.
355,oxygen metabolism causes chromosome breaks and is associated with the neuronal apoptosis observed in dna double-strand break repair mutants,cells deficient in a major dna double-strand break repair pathway (nonhomologous dna end joining [nhej]) have increased spontaneous chromosome breaks; however  the source of these chromosome breaks has remained undefined. here  we show that the observed spontaneous chromosome breaks are partially suppressed by reducing the cellular oxygen tension. conversely  elevating the level of reactive oxygen species by overexpressing the antioxidant enzyme superoxide dismutase 1 (sod1)  in a transgenic mouse  increases chromosome breakage. the effect of sod1 can also be modulated by cellular oxygen tension. the elevated chromosome breakage correlates histologically with a significant increase in the amount of neuronal cell death in ku86(-/-) sod1 transgenic embryos over that seen in ku86(-/-) embryos. therefore  oxygen metabolism is a major source of the genomic instability observed in nhej-deficient cells and  presumably  in all cells.
357,markets  voucher subsidies and free nets combine to achieve high bed net coverage in rural tanzania,background tanzania has a well-developed network of commercial itn retailers. in 2004  the government introduced a voucher subsidy for pregnant women and  in mid 2005  helped distribute free nets to under-fives in small number of districts  including rufiji on the southern coast  during a child health campaign. contributions of these multiple insecticide-treated net delivery strategies existing at the same time and place to coverage in a poor rural community were assessed. methods cross-sectional household survey in 6 331 members of randomly selected 1 752 households of 31 rural villages of demographic surveillance system in rufiji district  southern tanzania was conducted in 2006. a questionnaire was administered to every consenting respondent about net use  treatment status and delivery mechanism. findings net use was 62.7% overall  87.2% amongst infants (0 to 1 year)  81.8% amongst young children (>1 to 5 years)  54.5% amongst older children (6 to 15 years) and 59.6% amongst adults (>15 years). 30.2% of all nets had been treated six months prior to interview. the biggest source of nets used by infants was purchase from the private sector with a voucher subsidy (41.8%). half of nets used by young children (50.0%) and over a third of those used by older children (37.2%) were obtained free of charge through the vaccination campaign. the largest source of nets amongst the population overall was commercial purchase (45.1% use) and was the primary means for protecting adults (60.2% use). all delivery mechanisms  especially sale of nets at full market price  under-served the poorest but no difference in equity was observed between voucher-subsidized and freely distributed nets. conclusion all three delivery strategies enabled a poor rural community to achieve net coverage high enough to yield both personal and community level protection for the entire population. each of them reached their relevant target group and free nets only temporarily suppressed the net market  illustrating that in this setting that these are complementary rather than mutually exclusive approaches.
359,brain-specific phosphorylation of mecp2 regulates activity-dependent bdnf transcription  dendritic growth  and spine maturation,mutations or duplications in mecp2 cause rett and rett-like syndromes  neurodevelopmental disorders characterized by mental retardation  motor dysfunction  and autistic behaviors. mecp2 is expressed in many mammalian tissues and functions as a global repressor of transcription; however  the molecular mechanisms by which mecp2 dysfunction leads to the neural-specific phenotypes of rtt remain poorly understood. here  we show that neuronal activity and subsequent calcium influx trigger the de novo phosphorylation of mecp2 at serine 421 (s421) by a camkii-dependent mechanism. mecp2 s421 phosphorylation is induced selectively in the brain in response to physiological stimuli. significantly  we find that s421 phosphorylation controls the ability of mecp2 to regulate dendritic patterning  spine morphogenesis  and the activity-dependent induction of bdnf transcription. these findings suggest that  by triggering mecp2 phosphorylation  neuronal activity regulates a program of gene expression that mediates nervous system maturation and that disruption of this process in individuals with mutations in mecp2 may underlie the neural-specific pathology of rtt.
361,potential use of γ-secretase modulators in the treatment of alzheimer disease.,although significant progress has occurred in the past 20 years regarding our understanding of alzheimer disease pathogenesis  we have yet to identify disease-modifying therapeutics capable of substantially altering the clinical course of this prevalent neurodegenerative disease. in this short review  we discuss 2 approaches that are currently being tested clinically (γ-secretase inhibition and γ-secretase modulation) and emphasize the significant differences between these 2 therapeutic approaches. we also discuss certain genetic- and biomarker-based translational and clinical trial paradigms that may assist in developing a useful therapeutic agent.
363,fruit consumption and risk of type 2 diabetes: results from three prospective longitudinal cohort studies,objective to determine whether individual fruits are differentially associated with risk of type 2 diabetes. design prospective longitudinal cohort study. setting health professionals in the united states. participants 66 105 women from the nurses' health study (1984-2008)  85 104 women from the nurses' health study ii (1991-2009)  and 36 173 men from the health professionals follow-up study (1986-2008) who were free of major chronic diseases at baseline in these studies. main outcome measure incident cases of type 2 diabetes  identified through self report and confirmed by supplementary questionnaires. results during 3 464 641 person years of follow-up  12 198 participants developed type 2 diabetes. after adjustment for personal  lifestyle  and dietary risk factors of diabetes  the pooled hazard ratio of type 2 diabetes for every three servings/week of total whole fruit consumption was 0.98 (95% confidence interval 0.97 [corrected] to 0.99). with mutual adjustment of individual fruits  the pooled hazard ratios of type 2 diabetes for every three servings/week were 0.74 (0.66 to 0.83) for blueberries  0.88 (0.83 to 0.93) for grapes and raisins  0.89 (0.79 to 1.01) for prunes  0.93 (0.90 to 0.96) for apples and pears  0.95 (0.91 to 0.98) for bananas  0.95 (0.91 to 0.99) for grapefruit  0.97 (0.92 to 1.02) for peaches  plums  and apricots  0.99 (0.95 to 1.03) for oranges  1.03 (0.96 to 1.10) for strawberries  and 1.10 (1.02 to 1.18) for cantaloupe. the pooled hazard ratio for the same increment in fruit juice consumption was 1.08 (1.05 to 1.11). the associations with risk of type 2 diabetes differed significantly among individual fruits (p<0.001 in all cohorts). conclusion our findings suggest the presence of heterogeneity in the associations between individual fruit consumption and risk of type 2 diabetes. greater consumption of specific whole fruits  particularly blueberries  grapes  and apples  is significantly associated with a lower risk of type 2 diabetes  whereas greater consumption of fruit juice is associated with a higher risk.
365,reverse engineering of tlx oncogenic transcriptional networks identifies runx1 as tumor suppressor in t-all,the tlx1 and tlx3 transcription factor oncogenes have a key role in the pathogenesis of t cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (t-all). here we used reverse engineering of global transcriptional networks to decipher the oncogenic regulatory circuit controlled by tlx1 and tlx3. this systems biology analysis defined t cell leukemia homeobox 1 (tlx1) and tlx3 as master regulators of an oncogenic transcriptional circuit governing t-all. notably  a network structure analysis of this hierarchical network identified runx1 as a key mediator of the t-all induced by tlx1 and tlx3 and predicted a tumor-suppressor role for runx1 in t cell transformation. consistent with these results  we identified recurrent somatic loss-of-function mutations in runx1 in human t-all. overall  these results place tlx1 and tlx3 at the top of an oncogenic transcriptional network controlling leukemia development  show the power of network analyses to identify key elements in the regulatory circuits governing human cancer and identify runx1 as a tumor-suppressor gene in t-all.
367,er-associated mitochondrial division links the distribution of mitochondria and mitochondrial dna in yeast,mitochondrial division is important for mitochondrial distribution and function. recent data have demonstrated that er-mitochondria contacts mark mitochondrial division sites  but the molecular basis and functions of these contacts are not understood. here we show that in yeast  the er-mitochondria tethering complex  ermes  and the highly conserved miro gtpase  gem1  are spatially and functionally linked to er-associated mitochondrial division. gem1 acts as a negative regulator of er-mitochondria contacts  an activity required for the spatial resolution and distribution of newly generated mitochondrial tips following division. previous data have demonstrated that ermes localizes with a subset of actively replicating mitochondrial nucleoids. we show that mitochondrial division is spatially linked to nucleoids and that a majority of these nucleoids segregate prior to division  resulting in their distribution into newly generated tips in the mitochondrial network. thus  we postulate that er-associated division serves to link the distribution of mitochondria and mitochondrial nucleoids in cells. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.7554/elife.00422.001.
369,micrornas can generate thresholds in target gene expression,micrornas (mirnas) are short  highly conserved noncoding rna molecules that repress gene expression in a sequence-dependent manner. we performed single-cell measurements using quantitative fluorescence microscopy and flow cytometry to monitor a target gene's protein expression in the presence and absence of regulation by mirna. we find that although the average level of repression is modest  in agreement with previous population-based measurements  the repression among individual cells varies dramatically. in particular  we show that regulation by mirnas establishes a threshold level of target mrna below which protein production is highly repressed. near this threshold  protein expression responds sensitively to target mrna input  consistent with a mathematical model of molecular titration. these results show that mirnas can act both as a switch and as a fine-tuner of gene expression.
371,management of women who have a genetic predisposition for breast cancer.,the management of women who have a genetic predisposition for breast cancer requires careful planning. women who have brca 1 and brca 2 mutations are at increased risk for breast cancer and for other cancers as well  particularly ovarian cancer. screening  prophlyactic surgery  and chemoprevention are commonly utilized strategies in the management of these patients  and women may choose more than one of these strategies. no randomized prospective trials have assessed the impact of these strategies specifically in mutation carriers. all patients should be informed that screening  prophylactic surgery  and chemoprevention have the potential for harm as well as benefit.
373,high-intensity functional exercise program and protein-enriched energy supplement for older persons dependent in activities of daily living: a randomised controlled trial.,the aims of this randomised controlled trial were to determine if a high-intensity functional exercise program improves balance  gait ability  and lower-limb strength in older persons dependent in activities of daily living and if an intake of protein-enriched energy supplement immediately after the exercises increases the effects of the training. one hundred and ninety-one older persons dependent in activities of daily living  living in residential care facilities  and with a mini-mental state examination (mmse) score of ? 10 participated. they were randomised to a high-intensity functional exercise program or a control activity  which included 29 sessions over 3 months  as well as to protein-enriched energy supplement or placebo. berg balance scale  self-paced and maximum gait speed  and one-repetition maximum in lower-limb strength were followed-up at three and six months and analysed by 2 x 2 factorial ancova  using the intention-to-treat principle. at three months  the exercise group had improved significantly in self-paced gait speed compared with the control group (mean difference 0.04 m/s  p = 0.02). at six months  there were significant improvements favouring the exercise group for berg balance scale (1.9 points  p = 0.05)  self-paced gait speed (0.05 m/s  p = 0.009)  and lower-limb strength (10.8 kg  p = 0.03). no interaction effects were seen between the exercise and nutrition interventions. in conclusion  a high-intensity functional exercise program has positive long-term effects in balance  gait ability  and lower-limb strength for older persons dependent in activities of daily living. an intake of protein-enriched energy supplement immediately after the exercises does not appear to increase the effects of the training.
375,predicting mortality of patients hospitalized for acutely exacerbated chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.,purpose to identify factors affecting the short-term prognosis of patients with acutely exacerbated chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd). patients and methods the 590 patients having copd as primary disease who were hospitalized in the pneumology unit of a university hospital from 1981 to 1990 were studied. a standardized protocol for the treatment of acutely exacerbated copd was adopted for all the patients. the patient records were retrospectively analyzed by two observers  and 23 clinical and laboratory variables defining the patient status on admission were collected. age and arterial gas data were also taken into account  and the outcome mortality was recorded. interobserver reproducibility was tested by computing the kappa coefficient and spearman's rho for dichotomous and continuous variables  respectively. the relationship of clinical and laboratory factors to the outcome was assessed first by univariate analysis and then by a logistic regression analysis assessing the independent predictive role of variables previously shown to be univariately correlated with mortality. results the mortality rate was 14.4%. the logistic regression analysis identified four independent predictors of death: age (odds ratio [or] 1.07; 95% confidence interval [ci] 1.04 to 1.11)  alveolar-arterial oxygen gradient greater than 41 mm hg (or 2.33; 95% ci 1.39 to 3.90)  ventricular arrhythmias (or 1.91; 95% ci 1.10 to 3.31)  and atrial fibrillation (or 2.27; 95% ci 1.14 to 4.51). conclusions patients with acutely exacerbated copd having a high risk of death can be identified at the time of admission. variables reflecting heart dysfunction are important determinants of this risk. among pulmonary function data  only alveolar-arterial oxygen gradient contributes to the predictive model.
377,the origin and neuronal function of in vivo nonsynaptic glutamate.,basal extracellular glutamate sampled in vivo is present in micromolar concentrations in the extracellular space outside the synaptic cleft  and neither the origin nor the function of this glutamate is known. this report reveals that blockade of glutamate release from the cystine-glutamate antiporter produced a significant decrease (60%) in extrasynaptic glutamate levels in the rat striatum  whereas blockade of voltage-dependent na+ and ca2+ channels produced relatively minimal changes (0-30%). this indicates that the primary origin of in vivo extrasynaptic glutamate in the striatum arises from nonvesicular glutamate release by the cystine-glutamate antiporter. by measuring [35s]cystine uptake  it was shown that similar to vesicular release  the activity of the cystine-glutamate antiporter is negatively regulated by group ii metabotropic glutamate receptors (mglur2/3) via a camp-dependent protein kinase mechanism. extracellular glutamate derived from the antiporter was shown to regulate extracellular levels of glutamate and dopamine. infusion of the mglur2/3 antagonist (rs)-1-amino-5-phosphonoindan-1-carboxylic acid (apica) increased extracellular glutamate levels  and previous blockade of the antiporter prevented the apica-induced rise in extracellular glutamate. this suggests that glutamate released from the antiporter is a source of endogenous tone on mglur2/3. blockade of the antiporter also produced an increase in extracellular dopamine that was reversed by infusing the mglur2/3 agonist (2r 4r)-4-aminopyrrolidine-2 4-dicarboxlylate  indicating that antiporter-derived glutamate can modulate dopamine transmission via mglur2/3 heteroreceptors. these results suggest that nonvesicular release from the cystine-glutamate antiporter is the primary source of in vivo extracellular glutamate and that this glutamate can modulate both glutamate and dopamine transmission.
379,interferon alpha therapy for hepatitis c: treatment completion and response rates among patients with substance use disorders,backgroundindividuals with substance use disorders (suds) are at increased risk for hepatitis c viral infection (hcv)  and few studies have explored their treatment responses empirically. the objective of this study was to assess interferon alpha therapy (ifn) completion and response rates among patients with hcv who had a history of comorbid suds. more data is needed to inform treatment strategies and guidelines for these patients. using a medical record database  information was retrospectively collected on 307 437 veterans seen in the veterans integrated service network 20 (visn 20) of the veterans healthcare administration (vha) between 1998 and 2003. for patients treated with any type of ifn (including regular or pegylated ifn) or combination therapy (ifn and ribavirin) who had a known hcv genotype  ifn completion and response rates were compared among patients with a history of sud (sud+ group) and patients without a history of sud (sud- group).resultsodds ratio analyses revealed that compared with the sud- group  the sud+ group was equally likely to complete ifn therapy if they had genotypes 2 and 3 (73.1% vs. 68.0%)  and if they had genotypes 1 and 4 (39.5% vs. 39.9%). within the sample of all patients who began ifn therapy  the sud- and sud+ groups were similarly likely to achieve an end of treatment response (genotypes 2 and 3  52.8% vs. 54.3%; genotypes 1 and 4  24.5% vs. 24.8%) and a sustained viral response (genotypes 2 and 3  42.6% vs. 41.1%; genotypes 1 and 4: 16.0% vs. 22.3%).conclusionindividuals with and without a history of sud responded to antiviral therapy for hcv at similar rates. collectively  these findings suggest that patients who have co-morbid sud and hcv diagnoses can successfully complete a course of antiviral therapy.
381,oncostatin m and leukemia inhibitory factor do not use the same functional receptor in mice.,oncostatin m (osm) and leukemia inhibitory factor (lif) are members of the interleukin-6 (il-6) subfamily of cytokines that use a common signal transducer gp130. human osm (hosm) and lif share a functional high-affinity receptor that is composed of gp130 and lif receptor beta subunit (lifrbeta). a second high-affinity receptor for hosm was recently found to be formed by gp130 and the hosm receptor beta subunit. however  the nature of murine osm (mosm) and its receptors has remained unknown. using the recently cloned mosm cdna  we produced recombinant mosm and studied its biological activity and receptor structure. murine hematopoietic cell lines m1 and da1.a  an embryonic stem cell line cce  and ba/f3 transfectants expressing gp130 and lifrbeta responded to murine lif (mlif) and hosm equally well  while these cells responded to mosm only at a 30-fold to 100-fold higher concentration than those of mlif and hosm. in contrast  nih3t3 cells responded to mosm  but not to mlif and hosm. scatchard plot analyses showed that mosm bound to gp130 with low-affinity (kd = 2.8 to 4.2 nmol/l) and that the binding affinity did not increase in the presence of lifrbeta. however  mosm bound to nih3t3 cells with high-affinity (kd = 660 pmol/l)  whereas mlif did not bind to nih3t3 cells at all. these results indicate that unlike hosm  mosm and mlif do not share the same functional receptor  and mosm delivers signals only through its specific receptor complex. further studies in mice will define the physiological roles of osm.
383,colorectal cancer survival in socioeconomic groups in england: variation is mainly in the short term after diagnosis.,unlabelled the objective of this study was to examine differences in cancer survival between socioeconomic groups in england  with particular attention to survival in the short term of follow-up. patients and methods individuals diagnosed with colorectal cancer between 1996 and 2004 in england were identified from cancer registry records. five-year cumulative relative survival and excess death rates were computed. results for colon cancer there was a very high excess death rate in the first month of follow-up  and the excess death rate was highest in the socioeconomically deprived groups. in subsequent periods  excess mortality rates were much lower and there was less socioeconomic variation. the pattern of variation in excess death rates was generally similar in rectal cancer but the socioeconomic difference in death rates persisted several years longer. if the excess death rates in the entire colorectal cancer patient population were the same as those observed in the most affluent socioeconomic quintile  the annual reduction would be 360 deaths in colon cancer and 336 deaths in rectal cancer patients. these deaths occurred almost entirely in the first month and the first year after diagnosis. conclusion recent developments in the national cancer control agenda have included an increasing emphasis on outcome measures  with short-term cancer survival an operational measure of variation and progress in cancer control. in providing clues to the nature of the survival differences between socioeconomic groups  the results presented here give strong support for this strategy.
385,neat1: a novel cancer‐related long non‐coding rna,aberrant overexpression of the long non-coding rna neat1 (nuclear paraspeckle assembly transcript 1) has been documented in different types of solid tumours  such as lung cancer  oesophageal cancer  colorectal cancer and hepatocellular carcinoma  in which its high levels are associated with poor prognosis. in contrast  neat1 is downregulated in acute promyelocytic leukaemia where it promotes leucocyte differentiation. in this review  we provide an overview of current evidence concerning the oncogenic role and potential clinical utilities of neat1. further investigations are warranted to elucidate the upstream and downstream mechanisms of neat1 overexpression.
387,oct4 links multiple epigenetic pathways to the pluripotency network,oct4 is a well-known transcription factor that plays fundamental roles in stem cell self-renewal  pluripotency  and somatic cell reprogramming. however  limited information is available on oct4-associated protein complexes and their intrinsic protein-protein interactions that dictate oct4's critical regulatory activities. here we employed an improved affinity purification approach combined with mass spectrometry to purify oct4 protein complexes in mouse embryonic stem cells (mescs)  and discovered many novel oct4 partners important for self-renewal and pluripotency of mescs. notably  we found that oct4 is associated with multiple chromatin-modifying complexes with documented as well as newly proved functional significance in stem cell maintenance and somatic cell reprogramming. our study establishes a solid biochemical basis for genetic and epigenetic regulation of stem cell pluripotency and provides a framework for exploring alternative factor-based reprogramming strategies.
389,ldl-cholesterol concentrations: a genome-wide association study,background ldl cholesterol has a causal role in the development of cardiovascular disease. improved understanding of the biological mechanisms that underlie the metabolism and regulation of ldl cholesterol might help to identify novel therapeutic targets. we therefore did a genome-wide association study of ldl-cholesterol concentrations. methods we used genome-wide association data from up to 11 685 participants with measures of circulating ldl-cholesterol concentrations across five studies  including data for 293 461 autosomal single nucleotide polymorphisms (snps) with a minor allele frequency of 5% or more that passed our quality control criteria. we also used data from a second genome-wide array in up to 4337 participants from three of these five studies  with data for 290 140 snps. we did replication studies in two independent populations consisting of up to 4979 participants. statistical approaches  including meta-analysis and linkage disequilibrium plots  were used to refine association signals; we analysed pooled data from all seven populations to determine the effect of each snp on variations in circulating ldl-cholesterol concentrations. findings in our initial scan  we found two snps (rs599839 [p=1.7x10(-15)] and rs4970834 [p=3.0x10(-11)]) that showed genome-wide statistical association with ldl cholesterol at chromosomal locus 1p13.3. the second genome screen found a third statistically associated snp at the same locus (rs646776 [p=4.3x10(-9)]). meta-analysis of data from all studies showed an association of snps rs599839 (combined p=1.2x10(-33)) and rs646776 (p=4.8x10(-20)) with ldl-cholesterol concentrations. snps rs599839 and rs646776 both explained around 1% of the variation in circulating ldl-cholesterol concentrations and were associated with about 15% of an sd change in ldl cholesterol per allele  assuming an sd of 1 mmol/l.   interpretation we found evidence for a novel locus for ldl cholesterol on chromosome 1p13.3. these results potentially provide insight into the biological mechanisms that underlie the regulation of ldl cholesterol and might help in the discovery of novel therapeutic targets for cardiovascular disease.
391,helicobacter pylori induces ags cell motility and elongation via independent signaling pathways.,helicobacter pylori induces motogenic and cytoskeletal responses in gastric epithelial cells. we demonstrate that these responses can be induced via independent signaling pathways that often occur in parallel. the cag pathogenicity island appears to be nonessential for induction of motility  whereas the elongation phenotype depends on translocation and phosphorylation of caga.
393,characterization of two classes of small molecule inhibitors of arp2/3 complex,polymerization of actin filaments directed by the actin-related protein (arp)2/3 complex supports many types of cellular movements. however  questions remain regarding the relative contributions of arp2/3 complex versus other mechanisms of actin filament nucleation to processes such as path finding by neuronal growth cones; this is because of the lack of simple methods to inhibit arp2/3 complex reversibly in living cells. here we describe two classes of small molecules that bind to different sites on the arp2/3 complex and inhibit its ability to nucleate actin filaments. ck-0944636 binds between arp2 and arp3  where it appears to block movement of arp2 and arp3 into their active conformation. ck-0993548 inserts into the hydrophobic core of arp3 and alters its conformation. both classes of compounds inhibit formation of actin filament comet tails by listeria and podosomes by monocytes. two inhibitors with different mechanisms of action provide a powerful approach for studying the arp2/3 complex in living cells.
395,cancer-associated adipocytes exhibit an activated phenotype and contribute to breast cancer invasion.,early local tumor invasion in breast cancer results in a likely encounter between cancer cells and mature adipocytes  but the role of these fat cells in tumor progression remains unclear. we show that murine and human tumor cells cocultivated with mature adipocytes exhibit increased invasive capacities in vitro and in vivo  using an original two-dimensional coculture system. likewise  adipocytes cultivated with cancer cells also exhibit an altered phenotype in terms of delipidation and decreased adipocyte markers associated with the occurrence of an activated state characterized by overexpression of proteases  including matrix metalloproteinase-11  and proinflammatory cytokines [interleukin (il)-6  il-1β]. in the case of il-6  we show that it plays a key role in the acquired proinvasive effect by tumor cells. equally important  we confirm the presence of these modified adipocytes in human breast tumors by immunohistochemistry and quantitative pcr. interestingly  the tumors of larger size and/or with lymph nodes involvement exhibit the higher levels of il-6 in tumor surrounding adipocytes. collectively  all our data provide in vitro and in vivo evidence that (i) invasive cancer cells dramatically impact surrounding adipocytes; (ii) peritumoral adipocytes exhibit a modified phenotype and specific biological features sufficient to be named cancer-associated adipocytes (caa); and (iii) caas modify the cancer cell characteristics/phenotype leading to a more aggressive behavior. our results strongly support the innovative concept that adipocytes participate in a highly complex vicious cycle orchestrated by cancer cells to promote tumor progression that might be amplified in obese patients.
397,microvascular and macrovascular complications of diabetes,diabetes is a group of chronic diseases characterized by hyperglycemia. modern medical care uses a vast array of lifestyle and pharmaceutical interventions aimed at preventing and controlling hyperglycemia. in addition to ensuring the adequate delivery of glucose to the tissues of the body  treatment of diabetes attempts to decrease the likelihood that the tissues of the body are harmed by hyperglycemia. the importance of protecting the body from hyperglycemia cannot be overstated; the direct and indirect effects on the human vascular tree are the major source of morbidity and mortality in both type 1 and type 2 diabetes. generally  the injurious effects of hyperglycemia are separated into macrovascular complications (coronary artery disease  peripheral arterial disease  and stroke) and microvascular complications (diabetic nephropathy  neuropathy  and retinopathy). it is important for physicians to understand the relationship between diabetes and vascular disease because the prevalence of diabetes continues to increase in the united states  and the clinical armamentarium for primary and secondary prevention of these complications is also expanding. ### diabetic retinopathy  diabetic retinopathy may be the most common microvascular complication of diabetes. it is responsible for ∼ 10 000 new cases of blindness every year in the united states alone.1 the risk of developing diabetic retinopathy or other microvascular complications of diabetes depends on both the duration and the severity of hyperglycemia. development of diabetic retinopathy in patients with type 2 diabetes was found to be related to both severity of hyperglycemia and presence of hypertension in the u.k. prospective diabetes study (ukpds)  and most patients with type 1 diabetes develop evidence of retinopathy within 20 years of diagnosis.2 3 retinopathy may begin to develop as early as 7 years before the diagnosis of diabetes in patients with type 2 diabetes.1 there are several proposed pathological mechanisms by which diabetes may lead …
399,independent association of lobular involution and mammographic breast density with breast cancer risk,background lobular involution  or age-related atrophy of breast lobules  is inversely associated with breast cancer risk  and mammographic breast density (mbd) is positively associated with breast cancer risk. methods to evaluate whether lobular involution and mbd are independently associated with breast cancer risk in women with benign breast disease  we performed a nested cohort study among women (n = 2666) with benign breast disease diagnosed at mayo clinic between january 1  1985  and december 31  1991 and a mammogram available within 6 months of the diagnosis. women were followed up for an average of 13.3 years to document any breast cancer incidence. lobular involution was categorized as none  partial  or complete; parenchymal pattern was classified using the wolfe classification as n1 (nondense)  p1  p2 (ductal prominence occupying <25%  or >25% of the breast  respectively)  or dy (extremely dense). hazard ratios (hrs) and 95% confidence intervals (cis) to assess associations of lobular involution and mbd with breast cancer risk were estimated using adjusted cox proportional hazards model. all tests of statistical significance were two-sided. results after adjustment for mbd  having no or partial lobular involution was associated with a higher risk of breast cancer than having complete involution (none: hr of breast cancer incidence = 2.62  95% ci = 1.39 to 4.94; partial: hr of breast cancer incidence = 1.61  95% ci = 1.03 to 2.53; p(trend) = .002). similarly  after adjustment for involution  having dense breasts was associated with higher risk of breast cancer than having nondense breasts (for dy: hr of breast cancer incidence = 1.67  95% ci = 1.03 to 2.73; for p2: hr of breast cancer incidence = 1.96  95% ci = 1.20 to 3.21; for p1: hr of breast cancer incidence = 1.23  95% ci = 0.67 to 2.26; p(trend) = .02). having a combination of no involution and dense breasts was associated with higher risk of breast cancer than having complete involution and nondense breasts (hr of breast cancer incidence = 4.08  95% ci = 1.72 to 9.68; p = .006). conclusion lobular involution and mbd are independently associated with breast cancer incidence; combined  they are associated with an even greater risk for breast cancer.
401,the homeobox gene goosecoid controls cell migration in xenopus embryos.,goosecoid (gsc)  a homeobox gene expressed specifically in the dorsal blastopore lip of the xenopus gastrula  is considered to play an important role in spemann's organizer phenomenon. lineage tracing and time-lapse microscopy were used to follow the fate of embryonic cells microinjected with gsc mrna. microinjected gsc has non-cell autonomous effects  recruiting neighboring uninjected cells into a twinned dorsal axis. ectopic expression of gsc mrna in ventral blastomeres as well as overexpression of gsc in dorsal blastomeres leads to cell movement toward the anterior of the embryo. the results suggest a function for gsc in the control of gastrulation movements in groups of cells  but not in dissociated cells  and demonstrate that a vertebrate homeobox gene can regulate region-specific cell migration.
403,leptin treatment ameliorates anxiety in ob/ob obese mice.,we investigated whether or not administered leptin influences anxiety-like behavior in ob/ob mice. repeated intraperitoneal administrations of leptin were continued for 5 days. anxiety was assessed in the standard elevated plus maze. body weight was measured daily. repeated administrations of leptin significantly increased the percentage of the total number of entries in the open arms and the number of total entries. the body weight was significantly reduced by 13.2% after treatment. leptin treatment ameliorated not only obesity but also anxiety in ob/ob mice. our results indicate that the treatment of obesity may lead to the solution of psychological problems.
405,bone loss and vascular calcification: a bi-directional interplay?,vascular calcification (vc) represents a recognized adverse predictor for cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. previously considered passive and degenerative  vc is now recognized as an active process that resembles bone formation  and shares a number of histopathological features  mineral composition  and initiation mechanisms with bone development and metabolism. oxidative stress and inflammation are key factors in both vc and osteoporosis (op). biochemical factors known to be primarily involved in the healthy bone metabolism also regulate vc. these biomarkers include vitamin d  osteoprotegerin  osteopontin  matrix gla protein  cathepsin k  fibroblast growth factor-23  and fetuin-a. a better understanding of this highly controlled regulatory network  with multiple  nested feedback loops and cross talk between organs  may help to decrease the growing prevalence of calcific vasculopathy as well as op in the aging population  and to advance in common preventive and therapeutic interventions targeted at both conditions.
407,local proliferation dominates lesional macrophage accumulation in atherosclerosis,during the inflammatory response that drives atherogenesis  macrophages accumulate progressively in the expanding arterial wall. the observation that circulating monocytes give rise to lesional macrophages has reinforced the concept that monocyte infiltration dictates macrophage buildup. recent work has indicated  however  that macrophage accumulation does not depend on monocyte recruitment in some inflammatory contexts. we therefore revisited the mechanism underlying macrophage accumulation in atherosclerosis. in murine atherosclerotic lesions  we found that macrophages turn over rapidly  after 4 weeks. replenishment of macrophages in these experimental atheromata depends predominantly on local macrophage proliferation rather than monocyte influx. the microenvironment orchestrates macrophage proliferation through the involvement of scavenger receptor a (sr-a). our study reveals macrophage proliferation as a key event in atherosclerosis and identifies macrophage self-renewal as a therapeutic target for cardiovascular disease.
409,gastric juice mir-129 as a potential biomarker for screening gastric cancer,micrornas (mirnas) play crucial roles during the occurrence and development of gastric cancer. conventional serological tests for screening gastric cancer have limits on sensitivity and specificity. several mirnas in peripheral blood have been used as biomarkers of gastric cancer. however  most of these mirnas are shared by several types of cancer. thanks to the tissue specificity of gastric juice  here we examined the feasibility of using gastric juice mir-129-1/2  which are aberrantly expressed in gastric cancer  to screen gastric cancer. total of 141 gastric juices samples from gastric cancer  gastric ulcer  atrophic gastritis  and minimal gastritis patients or subjects with normal mucosa were collected by gastroscopy. the gastric juice mir-129-1/2 levels were detected by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. a receiver operating characteristic (roc) curve was constructed for differentiating patients with gastric cancer from patients with benign gastric diseases. we showed that  compared with patients with benign gastric diseases  patients with gastric cancer had significantly lower levels of gastric juice mir-129-1-3p and mir-129-2-3p. the areas under roc curve (auc) were 0.639 and 0.651 for mir-129-1-3p and mir-129-2-3p  respectively. using the parallel combination test  the auc was up to 0.656. in summary  our results suggest that gastric juice mir-129-1-3p and mir-129-2-3p are potential biomarkers for the screening gastric cancer  and the detection of gastric juice mirnas is a convenient non-invasion method for the diagnosis of gastric cancer.
411,robust synchronization of coupled circadian and cell cycle oscillators in single mammalian cells,circadian cycles and cell cycles are two fundamental periodic processes with a period in the range of 1 day. consequently  coupling between such cycles can lead to synchronization. here  we estimated the mutual interactions between the two oscillators by time-lapse imaging of single mammalian nih3t3 fibroblasts during several days. the analysis of thousands of circadian cycles in dividing cells clearly indicated that both oscillators tick in a 1:1 mode-locked state  with cell divisions occurring tightly 5 h before the peak in circadian rev-erbα-yfp reporter expression. in principle  such synchrony may be caused by either unidirectional or bidirectional coupling. while gating of cell division by the circadian cycle has been most studied  our data combined with stochastic modeling unambiguously show that the reverse coupling is predominant in nih3t3 cells. moreover  temperature  genetic  and pharmacological perturbations showed that the two interacting cellular oscillators adopt a synchronized state that is highly robust over a wide range of parameters. these findings have implications for circadian function in proliferative tissues  including epidermis  immune cells  and cancer.
413,infection-induced netosis is a dynamic process involving neutrophil multitasking in vivo,neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) are released as neutrophils die in vitro in a process requiring hours  leaving a temporal gap that invasive microbes may exploit. neutrophils capable of migration and phagocytosis while undergoing netosis have not been documented. during gram-positive skin infections  we directly visualized live polymorphonuclear cells (pmns) in vivo rapidly releasing nets  which prevented systemic bacterial dissemination. netosis occurred during crawling  thereby casting large areas of nets. net-releasing pmns developed diffuse decondensed nuclei  ultimately becoming devoid of dna. cells with abnormal nuclei showed unusual crawling behavior highlighted by erratic pseudopods and hyperpolarization consistent with the nucleus being a fulcrum for crawling. a requirement for both toll-like receptor 2 and complement-mediated opsonization tightly regulated net release. additionally  live human pmns injected into mouse skin developed decondensed nuclei and formed nets in vivo  and intact anuclear neutrophils were abundant in gram-positive human abscesses. therefore early in infection netosis involves neutrophils that do not undergo lysis and retain the ability to multitask.
415,lung dendritic cells imprint t cell lung homing and promote lung immunity through the chemokine receptor ccr4,t cell trafficking into the lung is critical for lung immunity  but the mechanisms that mediate t cell lung homing are not well understood. here  we show that lung dendritic cells (dcs) imprint t cell lung homing  as lung dc-activated t cells traffic more efficiently into the lung in response to inhaled antigen and at homeostasis compared with t cells activated by dcs from other tissues. consequently  lung dc-imprinted t cells protect against influenza more effectively than do gut and skin dc-imprinted t cells. lung dcs imprint the expression of ccr4 on t cells  and ccr4 contributes to t cell lung imprinting. lung dc-activated  ccr4-deficient t cells fail to traffic into the lung as efficiently and to protect against influenza as effectively as lung dc-activated  ccr4-sufficient t cells. thus  lung dcs imprint t cell lung homing and promote lung immunity in part through ccr4.
417,vascular smooth muscle cell calcification is mediated by regulated exosome secretion.,rationale matrix vesicles (mvs)  secreted by vascular smooth muscle cells (vsmcs)  form the first nidus for mineralization and fetuin-a  a potent circulating inhibitor of calcification  is specifically loaded into mvs. however  the processes of fetuin-a intracellular trafficking and mv biogenesis are poorly understood. objective the objective of this study is to investigate the regulation  and role  of mv biogenesis in vsmc calcification. methods and results alexa488-labeled fetuin-a was internalized by human vsmcs  trafficked via the endosomal system  and exocytosed from multivesicular bodies via exosome release. vsmc-derived exosomes were enriched with the tetraspanins cd9  cd63  and cd81  and their release was regulated by sphingomyelin phosphodiesterase 3. comparative proteomics showed that vsmc-derived exosomes were compositionally similar to exosomes from other cell sources but also shared components with osteoblast-derived mvs including calcium-binding and extracellular matrix proteins. elevated extracellular calcium was found to induce sphingomyelin phosphodiesterase 3 expression and the secretion of calcifying exosomes from vsmcs in vitro  and chemical inhibition of sphingomyelin phosphodiesterase 3 prevented vsmc calcification. in vivo  multivesicular bodies containing exosomes were observed in vessels from chronic kidney disease patients on dialysis  and cd63 was found to colocalize with calcification. importantly  factors such as tumor necrosis factor-α and platelet derived growth factor-bb were also found to increase exosome production  leading to increased calcification of vsmcs in response to calcifying conditions. conclusions this study identifies mvs as exosomes and shows that factors that can increase exosome release can promote vascular calcification in response to environmental calcium stress. modulation of the exosome release pathway may be as a novel therapeutic target for prevention.
419,microrna-21 is induced by rapamycin in a model of tuberous sclerosis (tsc) and lymphangioleiomyomatosis (lam),lymphangioleiomyomatosis (lam)  a multisystem disease of women  is manifest by the proliferation of smooth muscle-like cells in the lung resulting in cystic lung destruction. women with lam can also develop renal angiomyolipomas. lam is caused by mutations in the tuberous sclerosis complex genes (tsc1 or tsc2)  resulting in hyperactive mammalian target of rapamycin (mtor) signaling. the mtor inhibitor  rapamycin  stabilizes lung function in lam and decreases the volume of renal angiomyolipomas  but lung function declines and angiomyolipomas regrow when treatment is discontinued  suggesting that factors induced by mtorc1 inhibition may promote the survival of tsc2-deficient cells. whether microrna (mirna  mir) signaling is involved in the response of lam to mtorc1 inhibition is unknown. we identified rapamycin-dependent mirna in lam patient angiomyolipoma-derived cells using two separate screens. first  we assayed 132 mirna of known significance to tumor biology. using a cut-off of >1.5-fold change  48 microrna were rapamycin-induced  while 4 mirs were downregulated. in a second screen encompassing 946 mirna  18 mirs were upregulated by rapamycin  while eight were downregulated. dysregulation of mirs 29b  21  24  221  106a and 199a were common to both platforms and were classified as candidate "rapamirs. " validation by qrt-pcr confirmed that these microrna were increased. mir-21  a pro-survival mir  was the most significantly increased by mtor-inhibition (p<0.01). the regulation of mir-21 by rapamycin is cell type independent. mtor inhibition promotes the processing of the mir-21 transcript (pri-mir-21) to a premature form (pre-mir-21). in conclusion  our findings demonstrate that rapamycin upregulates multiple mirs  including pro-survival mirs  in tsc2-deficient patient-derived cells. the induction of mirs may contribute to the response of lam and tsc patients to rapamycin therapy.
421,human irgm induces autophagy to eliminate intracellular mycobacteria.,immunity-related p47 guanosine triphosphatases (irg) play a role in defense against intracellular pathogens. we found that the murine irgm1 (lrg-47) guanosine triphosphatase induced autophagy and generated large autolysosomal organelles as a mechanism for the elimination of intracellular mycobacterium tuberculosis. we also identified a function for a human irg protein in the control of intracellular pathogens and report that the human irgm1 ortholog  irgm  plays a role in autophagy and in the reduction of intracellular bacillary load.
423,the surgical anatomy of the conduction tissues.,on the basis of our collective experience we have reviewed the disposition of the cardiac conduction tissues as they might be observed by the surgeon in both normal and abnormal hearts. the sinus node lies subepicardially in the terminal sulcus; because of its variable blood supply the entire superior cavoatrial junction is a potential danger area. there are no morphologically discrete tracts extending through the atrial tissues between sinus and atrioventricular nodes. the atrioventricular node  the atrial extent of the atrioventricular conduction axis  is contained exclusively within the triangle of koch. the axis penetrates through the central fibrous body and branches on the muscular ventricular septum immediately beneath the interventricular component of the membranous septum. the landmarks to these structures are described as they might be seen through the right atrium  left atrium  and aorta. consideration is then given to the surgical anatomy of the abnormal muscular atrioventricular connections that underscore the ventricular pre-excitation syndromes. finally  rules are developed whereby the disposition of the conduction tissues can be predicted with accuracy in congenitally malformed hearts  in the settings of both normal and abnormal chamber connections. the most important variables in this respect are alignment between the atrial and ventricular septal structures and the pattern of ventricular architecture present.
425,modulation of cancer chemotherapy by green tea.,biochemical modulation has played an important role in the development of cancer chemotherapy. we have directed our attention to the intake of common beverages and investigated the effects of green tea and tea components on the antitumor activity of doxorubicin. we carried out the combined treatment of toxorubicin and green tea on ehrlich ascites carcinoma tumor-bearing mice. the oral administration of green tea enhanced 2.5-fold the inhibitory effects of doxorubicin on tumor growth. the doxorubicin concentration in the tumor was increased by the combination of green tea with doxorubicin. in contrast  the increase in doxorubicin concentration was not observed in normal tissues after green tea combination. furthermore  the enhancement of antitumor activity of doxorubicin induced by green tea was observed in m5076 ovarian sarcoma  which has low sensitivity to doxorubicin. these results suggest that drinking green tea can encourage cancer chemotherapy and may improve the quality of life of clinical patients.
427,n348i in hiv-1 reverse transcriptase can counteract the nevirapine-mediated bias toward rnase h cleavage during plus-strand initiation.,drug resistance-associated mutations in hiv-1 reverse transcriptase (rt) can affect the balance between polymerase and ribonuclease h (rnase h) activities of the enzyme. we have recently demonstrated that the n348i mutation in the connection domain causes selective dissociation from rnase h-competent complexes  whereas the functional integrity of the polymerase-competent complex remains largely unaffected. n348i has been associated with resistance to the non-nucleoside rt inhibitor (nnrti)  nevirapine; however  a possible mechanism that links changes in rnase h activity to changes in nnrti susceptibility remains to be established. to address this problem  we consider recent findings suggesting that nnrtis may affect the orientation of rt on its nucleic acid substrate and increase rnase h activity. here we demonstrate that rnase h-mediated primer removal is indeed more efficient in the presence of nnrtis; however  the n348i mutant enzyme is able to counteract this effect. efavirenz  a tight binding inhibitor  restricts the influence of the mutation. these findings provide strong evidence to suggest that n348i can thwart the inhibitory effects of nevirapine during initiation of (+)-strand dna synthesis  which provides a novel mechanism for resistance. the data are in agreement with clinical data  which demonstrate a stronger effect of n348i on susceptibility to nevirapine as compared with efavirenz.
429,arylsulfatase b improves locomotor function after mouse spinal cord injury,bacterial chondroitinase abc (chaseabc) has been used to remove the inhibitory chondroitin sulfate chains from chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans to improve regeneration after rodent spinal cord injury. we hypothesized that the mammalian enzyme arylsulfatase b (arsb) would also enhance recovery after mouse spinal cord injury. application of the mammalian enzyme would be an attractive alternative to chaseabc because of its more robust chemical stability and reduced immunogenicity. a one-time injection of human arsb into injured mouse spinal cord eliminated immunoreactivity for chondroitin sulfates within five days  and up to 9 weeks after injury. after a moderate spinal cord injury  we observed improvements of locomotor recovery assessed by the basso mouse scale (bms) in arsb treated mice  compared to the buffer-treated control group  at 6 weeks after injection. after a severe spinal cord injury  mice injected with equivalent units of arsb or chaseabc improved similarly and both groups achieved significantly more locomotor recovery than the buffer-treated control mice. serotonin and tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive axons were more extensively present in mouse spinal cords treated with arsb and chaseabc  and the immunoreactive axons penetrated further beyond the injury site in arsb or chaseabc treated mice than in control mice. these results indicate that mammalian arsb improves functional recovery after cns injury. the structural/molecular mechanisms underlying the observed functional improvement remain to be elucidated.
431,human milk proresolving mediators stimulate resolution of acute inflammation,human milk contains nutrients and bioactive products relevant to infant development and immunological protection. here  we investigated the proresolving properties of milk using human milk lipid mediator isolates (hlmis) and determined their impact on resolution programs in vivo and with human macrophages. hlmis reduced the maximum neutrophil numbers (14.6±1.2 × 106–11.0±1.0 × 106 cells per exudate) and shortened the resolution interval (ri; 50% neutrophil reduction) by 54% compared with peritonitis. using rigorous liquid-chromatography tandem-mass spectrometry (lc-ms-ms)-based lipid mediator (lm) metabololipidomics  we demonstrated that human milk possesses a proresolving lm-specialized proresolving mediator (lm-spm) signature profile  containing spms (e.g. resolvins (rv)  protectins (pds)  maresins (mars)  and lipoxins (lxs)) at bioactive levels (pico-nanomolar concentrations) that enhanced human macrophage efferocytosis and bacterial containment. spms identified in human milk included d-series rvs (e.g.  rvd1  rvd2  rvd3  at-rvd3  and rvd4)  pd1  mar1  e-series rvs (e.g. rve1  rve2  and rve3)  and lxs (lxa4 and lxb4). of the spms identified in human milk  rvd2 and mar1 (50 ng per mouse) individually shortened ri by ∼75%. milk from mastitis gave higher leukotriene b4 and prostanoids and lower spm levels. taken together  these findings provide evidence that human milk has proresolving actions via comprehensive lm-spm profiling  describing a potentially novel mechanism in maternal–infant biochemical imprinting.
433,epigenetic regulation of mir-184 by mbd1 governs neural stem cell proliferation and differentiation.,methyl-cpg binding protein 1 (mbd1) regulates gene expression via a dna methylation-mediated epigenetic mechanism. we have previously demonstrated that mbd1 deficiency impairs adult neural stem/progenitor cell (ansc) differentiation and neurogenesis  but the underlying mechanism was unclear. here  we show that mbd1 regulates the expression of several micrornas in anscs and  specifically  that mir-184 is directly repressed by mbd1. high levels of mir-184 promoted proliferation but inhibited differentiation of anscs  whereas inhibition of mir-184 rescued the phenotypes associated with mbd1 deficiency. we further found that mir-184 regulates the expression of numblike (numbl)  a known regulator of brain development  by binding to the 3'-utr of numbl mrna and affecting its translation. expression of exogenous numbl could rescue the ansc defects that result from either mir-184 overexpression or mbd1 deficiency. therefore  mbd1  mir-184  and numbl form a regulatory network that helps control the balance between proliferation and differentiation of anscs.
435,integrated molecular genetic profiling of pediatric high-grade gliomas reveals key differences with the adult disease.,purpose to define copy number alterations and gene expression signatures underlying pediatric high-grade glioma (hgg). patients and methods we conducted a high-resolution analysis of genomic imbalances in 78 de novo pediatric hggs  including seven diffuse intrinsic pontine gliomas  and 10 hggs arising in children who received cranial irradiation for a previous cancer using single nucleotide polymorphism microarray analysis. gene expression was analyzed with gene expression microarrays for 53 tumors. results were compared with publicly available data from adult tumors. results significant differences in copy number alterations distinguish childhood and adult glioblastoma. pdgfra was the predominant target of focal amplification in childhood hgg  including diffuse intrinsic pontine gliomas  and gene expression analyses supported an important role for deregulated pdgfralpha signaling in pediatric hgg. no idh1 hotspot mutations were found in pediatric tumors  highlighting molecular differences with adult secondary glioblastoma. pediatric and adult glioblastomas were clearly distinguished by frequent gain of chromosome 1q (30% v 9%  respectively) and lower frequency of chromosome 7 gain (13% v 74%  respectively) and 10q loss (35% v 80%  respectively). pdgfra amplification and 1q gain occurred at significantly higher frequency in irradiation-induced tumors  suggesting that these are initiating events in childhood gliomagenesis. a subset of pediatric hggs showed minimal copy number changes. conclusion integrated molecular profiling showed substantial differences in the molecular features underlying pediatric and adult hgg  indicating that findings in adult tumors cannot be simply extrapolated to younger patients. pdgfralpha may be a useful target for pediatric hgg  including diffuse pontine gliomas.
437,the evolution of rnas with multiple functions.,increasing numbers of transcripts have been reported to transmit both protein-coding and regulatory information. apart from challenging our conception of the gene  this observation raises the question as to what extent this phenomenon occurs across the genome and how and why such dual encoding of function has evolved in the eukaryotic genome. to address this question  we consider the evolutionary path of genes in the earliest forms of life on earth  where it is generally regarded that proteins evolved from a cellular machinery based entirely within rna. this led to the domination of protein-coding genes in the genomes of microorganisms  although it is likely that rna never lost its other capacities and functionalities  as evidenced by cis-acting riboswitches and utrs. on the basis that the subsequent evolution of a more sophisticated regulatory architecture to provide higher levels of epigenetic control and accurate spatiotemporal expression in developmentally complex organisms is a complicated task  we hypothesize: (i) that mrnas have been and remain subject to secondary selection to provide trans-acting regulatory capability in parallel with protein-coding functions; (ii) that some and perhaps many protein-coding loci  possibly as a consequence of gene duplication  have lost protein-coding functions en route to acquiring more sophisticated trans-regulatory functions; (iii) that many transcripts have become subject to secondary processing to release different products; and (iv) that novel proteins have emerged within loci that previously evolved functionality as regulatory rnas. in support of the idea that there is a dynamic flux between different types of informational rnas in both evolutionary and real time  we review recent observations that have arisen from transcriptomic surveys of complex eukaryotes and reconsider how these observations impact on the notion that apparently discrete loci may express transcripts with more than one function. in conclusion  we posit that many eukaryotic loci have evolved the capacity to transact a multitude of overlapping and potentially independent functions as both regulatory and protein-coding rnas.
439,stathmin overexpression identifies high-risk patients and lymph node metastasis in endometrial cancer.,purpose overexpression of the oncogen stathmin has been linked to aggressive endometrial carcinoma and a potential for pi3kinase inhibitors in this disease. we wanted to validate the prognostic value of stathmin expression in a large prospective multicenter setting. as lymph node sampling is part of current surgical staging  we also aimed to test if stathmin expression in endometrial curettage specimens could predict lymph node metastasis. experimental design a total of 1 076 endometrial cancer patients have been recruited from 10 centers to investigate the biological tumor marker stathmin in relation to clinicopathologic variables  including lymph node status and survival. stathmin immunohistochemical staining was carried out in 477 hysterectomy and 818 curettage specimens. results seventy-one percent of the patients (n = 763) were subjected to lymph node sampling  of which 12% had metastatic nodes (n = 94). overexpression of stathmin was detected in 37% (302 of 818) of the curettage and in 18% (84 of 477) of the hysterectomy specimens investigated. stathmin overexpression in curettage and hysterectomy specimens were highly correlated and significantly associated with nonendometrioid histology  high grade  and aneuploidy. stathmin analysis in preoperative curettage samples significantly correlated with  and was an independent predictor of  lymph node metastases. high stathmin expression was associated with poor disease-specific survival (p ≤ 0.002) both in curettage and hysterectomy specimens. conclusions stathmin immunohistochemical staining identifies endometrial carcinomas with lymph node metastases and poor survival. the value  as a predictive marker for response to pi3kinase inhibition and as a tool to stratify patients for lymph node sampling in endometrial carcinomas  remains to be determined.
441,array-based comparative genomic hybridization for genome-wide screening of dna copy number in bladder tumors,genome-wide copy number profiles were characterized in 41 primary bladder tumors using array-based comparative genomic hybridization (array cgh). in addition to previously identified alterations in large chromosomal regions  alterations were identified in many small genomic regions  some with high-level amplifications or homozygous deletions. high-level amplifications were detected for 192 genomic clones  most frequently at 6p22.3 (e2f3)  8p12 (fgfr1)  8q22.2 (cmyc)  11q13 (ccnd1  ems1  int2)  and 19q13.1 (ccne). homozygous deletions were detected in 51 genomic clones  with four showing deletions in more than one case: two clones mapping to 9p21.3 (cdkn2a/p16  in nine cases)  one at 8p23.1 (three cases)  and one at 11p13 (two cases). significant correlations were observed between copy number gain of clones containing ccne1 and gain of erbb2  and between gain of ccnd1 and deletion of tp53. in addition  there was a significant complementary association between gain of ccnd1 and gain of e2f3. although there was no significant relationship between copy number changes and tumor stage or grade  the linked behavior among genomic loci suggests that array cgh will be increasingly important in understanding pathways critical to bladder tumor biology.
443,control of immunity by the tnfr-related molecule ox40 (cd134).,tnfr/tnf superfamily members can control diverse aspects of immune function. research over the past 10 years has shown that one of the most important and prominent interactions in this family is that between ox40 (cd134) and its partner ox40l (cd252). these molecules strongly regulate conventional cd4 and cd8 t cells  and more recent data are highlighting their ability to modulate nkt cell and nk cell function as well as to mediate cross-talk with professional antigen-presenting cells and diverse cell types such as mast cells  smooth muscle cells  and endothelial cells. additionally  ox40-ox40l interactions alter the differentiation and activity of regulatory t cells. blocking ox40l has produced strong therapeutic effects in multiple animal models of autoimmune and inflammatory disease  and  in line with a prospective clinical future  reagents that stimulate ox40 signaling are showing promise as adjuvants for vaccination as well as for treatment of cancer.
445,a neuroimaging investigation of the association between aerobic fitness  hippocampal volume  and memory performance in preadolescent children.,because children are becoming overweight  unhealthy  and unfit  understanding the neurocognitive benefits of an active lifestyle in childhood has important public health and educational implications. animal research has indicated that aerobic exercise is related to increased cell proliferation and survival in the hippocampus as well as enhanced hippocampal-dependent learning and memory. recent evidence extends this relationship to elderly humans by suggesting that high aerobic fitness levels in older adults are associated with increased hippocampal volume and superior memory performance. the present study aimed to further extend the link between fitness  hippocampal volume  and memory to a sample of preadolescent children. to this end  magnetic resonance imaging was employed to investigate whether higher- and lower-fit 9- and 10-year-old children showed differences in hippocampal volume and if the differences were related to performance on an item and relational memory task. relational but not item memory is primarily supported by the hippocampus. consistent with predictions  higher-fit children showed greater bilateral hippocampal volumes and superior relational memory task performance compared to lower-fit children. hippocampal volume was also positively associated with performance on the relational but not the item memory task. furthermore  bilateral hippocampal volume was found to mediate the relationship between fitness level (vo(2) max) and relational memory. no relationship between aerobic fitness  nucleus accumbens volume  and memory was reported  which strengthens the hypothesized specific effect of fitness on the hippocampus. the findings are the first to indicate that aerobic fitness may relate to the structure and function of the preadolescent human brain.
447,β-adrenergic receptor antagonism prevents anxiety-like behavior and microglial reactivity induced by repeated social defeat.,psychosocial stress is associated with altered immune function and development of psychological disorders including anxiety and depression. here we show that repeated social defeat in mice increased c-fos staining in brain regions associated with fear and threat appraisal and promoted anxiety-like behavior in a β-adrenergic receptor-dependent manner. repeated social defeat also significantly increased the number of cd11b(+)/cd45(high)/ly6c(high) macrophages that trafficked to the brain. in addition  several inflammatory markers were increased on the surface of microglia (cd14  cd86  and tlr4) and macrophages (cd14 and cd86) after social defeat. repeated social defeat also increased the presence of deramified microglia in the medial amygdala  prefrontal cortex  and hippocampus. moreover  mrna analysis of microglia indicated that repeated social defeat increased levels of interleukin (il)-1β and reduced levels of glucocorticoid responsive genes [glucocorticoid-induced leucine zipper (gilz) and fk506 binding protein-51 (fkbp51)]. the stress-dependent changes in microglia and macrophages were prevented by propranolol  a β-adrenergic receptor antagonist. microglia isolated from socially defeated mice and cultured ex vivo produced markedly higher levels of il-6  tumor necrosis factor-α  and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 after stimulation with lipopolysaccharide compared with microglia from control mice. last  repeated social defeat increased c-fos activation in il-1 receptor type-1-deficient mice  but did not promote anxiety-like behavior or microglia activation in the absence of functional il-1 receptor type-1. these findings indicate that repeated social defeat-induced anxiety-like behavior and enhanced reactivity of microglia was dependent on activation of β-adrenergic and il-1 receptors.
449,characterization of prostaglandin e2 production by candida albicans.,candida albicans produces lipid metabolites that are functionally similar to host prostaglandins. these studies  using mass spectrometry  demonstrate that c. albicans produces authentic prostaglandin e(2) (pge(2)) from arachidonic acid. maximal pge(2) production was achieved at 37 degrees c in stationary-phase culture supernatants and in cell-free lysates generated from stationary-phase cells. interestingly  pge(2) production is inhibited by both nonspecific cyclooxygenase and lipoxygenase inhibitors but not by inhibitors specific for the cyclooxygenase 2 isoenzyme. the c. albicans genome does not possess a cyclooxygenase homolog; however  several genes that may play a role in prostaglandin production from c. albicans were investigated. it was found that a c. albicans fatty acid desaturase homolog (ole2) and a multicopper oxidase homolog (fet3) play roles in prostaglandin production  with ole2/ole2 and fet3/fet3 mutant strains exhibiting reduced pge(2) levels compared with parent strains. this work demonstrates that the synthesis of pge(2) in c. albicans proceeds via novel pathways.
451,kobas 2.0: a web server for annotation and identification of enriched pathways and diseases,high-throughput experimental technologies often identify dozens to hundreds of genes related to  or changed in  a biological or pathological process. from these genes one wants to identify biological pathways that may be involved and diseases that may be implicated. here  we report a web server  kobas 2.0  which annotates an input set of genes with putative pathways and disease relationships based on mapping to genes with known annotations. it allows for both id mapping and cross-species sequence similarity mapping. it then performs statistical tests to identify statistically significantly enriched pathways and diseases. kobas 2.0 incorporates knowledge across 1327 species from 5 pathway databases (kegg pathway  pid  biocyc  reactome and panther) and 5 human disease databases (omim  kegg disease  fundo  gad and nhgri gwas catalog). kobas 2.0 can be accessed at http://kobas.cbi.pku.edu.cn.
453,cd28 and itk signals regulate autoreactive t cell trafficking,activation of self-reactive t cells and their trafficking to target tissues leads to autoimmune organ destruction. mice lacking the co-inhibitory receptor cytotoxic t lymphocyte antigen-4 (ctla-4) develop fatal autoimmunity characterized by lymphocytic infiltration into nonlymphoid tissues. here  we demonstrate that the cd28 co-stimulatory pathway regulates the trafficking of self-reactive ctla4(-/-) t cells to tissues. concurrent ablation of the cd28-activated tec family kinase itk does not block spontaneous t cell activation but instead causes self-reactive ctla4(-/-) t cells to accumulate in secondary lymphoid organs. despite excessive spontaneous t cell activation and proliferation in lymphoid organs  itk(-/-); ctla4(-/-) mice are otherwise healthy  mount antiviral immune responses and exhibit a long lifespan. we propose that itk specifically licenses autoreactive t cells to enter tissues to mount destructive immune responses. notably  itk inhibitors mimic the null mutant phenotype and also prevent pancreatic islet infiltration by diabetogenic t cells in mouse models of type 1 diabetes  highlighting their potential utility for the treatment of human autoimmune disorders.
455,arginine depletion as a mechanism for the immune privilege of corneal allografts,the cornea is an immune privileged tissue. since arginase has been found to modulate t-cell function by depleting arginine  we investigated the expression of arginase in the cornea and its possible role in immune privilege using a murine transplant model. we found that both the endothelium and epithelium of murine corneas express functional arginase i  capable of down-regulating t-cell proliferation in an in vitro culture system. the administration of the specific arginase inhibitor n-hydroxy-nor-l-arg to recipient mice resulted in an accelerated rejection of allogeneic c57bl/6 (b6) corneal grafts. in contrast  in vivo blockade of arginase activity had no effect in altering the course of rejection of primary skin grafts that express little  if any  arginase. in addition  the inhibition of arginase did not alter systemic t-cell proliferation. these data show that arginase is functional in the cornea and contributes to the immune privilege of the eye  and that modulation of arginase contributes to graft survival.
457,leaderless genes in bacteria: clue to the evolution of translation initiation mechanisms in prokaryotes,background shine-dalgarno (sd) signal has long been viewed as the dominant translation initiation signal in prokaryotes. recently  leaderless genes  which lack 5'-untranslated regions (5'-utr) on their mrnas  have been shown abundant in archaea. however  current large-scale in silico analyses on initiation mechanisms in bacteria are mainly based on the sd-led initiation way  other than the leaderless one. the study of leaderless genes in bacteria remains open  which causes uncertain understanding of translation initiation mechanisms for prokaryotes. results here  we study signals in translation initiation regions of all genes over 953 bacterial and 72 archaeal genomes  then make an effort to construct an evolutionary scenario in view of leaderless genes in bacteria. with an algorithm designed to identify multi-signal in upstream regions of genes for a genome  we classify all genes into sd-led  ta-led and atypical genes according to the category of the most probable signal in their upstream sequences. particularly  occurrence of ta-like signals about 10 bp upstream to translation initiation site (tis) in bacteria most probably means leaderless genes. conclusions our analysis reveals that leaderless genes are totally widespread  although not dominant  in a variety of bacteria. especially for actinobacteria and deinococcus-thermus  more than twenty percent of genes are leaderless. analyzed in closely related bacterial genomes  our results imply that the change of translation initiation mechanisms  which happens between the genes deriving from a common ancestor  is linearly dependent on the phylogenetic relationship. analysis on the macroevolution of leaderless genes further shows that the proportion of leaderless genes in bacteria has a decreasing trend in evolution.
459,candidate causal regulatory effects by integration of expression qtls with complex trait genetic associations,the recent success of genome-wide association studies (gwas) is now followed by the challenge to determine how the reported susceptibility variants mediate complex traits and diseases. expression quantitative trait loci (eqtls) have been implicated in disease associations through overlaps between eqtls and gwas signals. however  the abundance of eqtls and the strong correlation structure (ld) in the genome make it likely that some of these overlaps are coincidental and not driven by the same functional variants. in the present study  we propose an empirical methodology  which we call regulatory trait concordance (rtc) that accounts for local ld structure and integrates eqtls and gwas results in order to reveal the subset of association signals that are due to cis eqtls. we simulate genomic regions of various ld patterns with both a single or two causal variants and show that our score outperforms snp correlation metrics  be they statistical (r(2)) or historical (d'). following the observation of a significant abundance of regulatory signals among currently published gwas loci  we apply our method with the goal to prioritize relevant genes for each of the respective complex traits. we detect several potential disease-causing regulatory effects  with a strong enrichment for immunity-related conditions  consistent with the nature of the cell line tested (lcls). furthermore  we present an extension of the method in trans  where interrogating the whole genome for downstream effects of the disease variant can be informative regarding its unknown primary biological effect. we conclude that integrating cellular phenotype associations with organismal complex traits will facilitate the biological interpretation of the genetic effects on these traits.
461,comparative safety of targeted therapies for metastatic colorectal cancer between elderly and younger patients: a study using the international pharmacovigilance database,metastatic colorectal cancer (mcrc) is increasingly treated using targeted therapies. post-marketing safety of these agents is understudied  especially in the elderly. this study aimed to compare  according to age  the adverse drug reactions (adrs) of targeted therapies used for mcrc in real life. an extraction of vigibase  which contains world health organization individual case safety reports (icsrs)  was performed. all adr reports with aflibercept  bevacizumab  cetuximab  panitumumab  or regorafenib used in crc were considered. for all drugs  chi-square tests were used to compare frequencies of serious adrs between patients aged ≥75 and <75 years. for selected adrs and each drug  the drug-adr association compared to other anticancer drugs was estimated through the proportional reporting ratio (prr) in both age groups. there were 21 565 icsrs included  among which 74% were serious and 11% were fatal. median age was 64 years (inter quartile range = 56–71) and 15% of patients were aged ≥75; 57% were male. serious icsrs accounted for 47 292 adrs. neutropenia was not more reported in elderly for all drugs while diarrhea was more reported in elderly for panitumumab. cardiac disorders were more reported in elderly patients  in particular heart failure  especially for bevacizumab  cetuximab  and regorafenib  as were respiratory  thoracic  and mediastinal disorders. most of prr were not different between the two groups  except encephalopathies  which were significantly associated with bevacizumab in the elderly only. adrs related to targeted therapies used for mcrc treatment were different across age groups; yet  not systematically more reported or worse in elderly patients. selected elderly patients could  therefore  be treated with these targeted therapies.
463,familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy: current and emerging treatment options for transthyretin-mediated amyloidosis,transthyretin familial amyloid polyneuropathy (ttr-fap) is a fatal clinical disorder characterized by extracellular deposition of abnormal fibrils derived from misfolded  normally soluble transthyretin (ttr) molecules. the disease is most commonly caused by a point mutation within the ttr gene inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion. over 100 of such mutations have been identified  leading to destabilization of the physiological ttr tetramer. as a result  many monomers originate with a tendency for spontaneous conformational changes and self-aggregation. the main clinical feature of ttr-fap is progressive sensorimotor and autonomic neuropathy. in the beginning  this polyneuropathy predominantly involves small unmyelinated nerve fibers with the result of dissociated sensory loss disproportionately affecting sensation of pain and temperature. autonomic neuropathy typically accompanies sensory deficits early in the disease course. the symptoms include orthostatic hypotension  constipation alternating with diarrhea  erectile dysfunction  anhydrosis  and urinary retention or incontinence. later  involvement of motor fibers causes rapidly progressive weakness and gait disturbances. in addition to the peripheral nervous system  the heart and the gut are frequently affected. onset of symptoms is bimodal  with one peak at age 33 years (early onset) and another distinct peak in the sixth decade of life (late onset). the course of ttr-fap is uniformly progressive and fatal. death occurs an average of 10.8 years after the onset of symptoms in portuguese patients  and 7.3 years in late-onset japanese patients. common causes include cachexia  cardiac failure  arrhythmia  and secondary infections. liver transplantation is the standard therapy for patients who are in a clinical condition good enough to tolerate this intervention because it stops progression of neuropathy by removing the main source of mutant ttr. recently  orally administered tafamidis meglumine has been approved by european authorities for treatment of fap. the substance has been shown to stabilize the ttr tetramer  thereby improving the outcome of patients with ttr-fap. various other strategies have been studied in vitro to prevent ttr amyloidosis  including gene therapy  immunization  dissolution of ttr aggregates  and free radical scavengers  but none of them is ready for clinical use so far.
465,olmesartan-based therapies: an effective way to improve blood pressure control and cardiovascular protection.,the main purpose in hypertension treatment is the reduction of cardiovascular disease burden. among different first-line antihypertensive drug classes  angiotensin-receptor blockers are characterized by their both good effectiveness and tolerability. furthermore  the interruption of the renin-angiotensin cascade is related with several benefits in target organ protection and cardiovascular prevention. among different angiotensin-receptor blockers  olmesartan has been examined in several trial of organ protection  showing improvements in several disease markers  such as microinflammation  regression of both plaque volume and vascular hypertrophy  as well as microalbuminuria prevention. olmesartan has been also widely examined in combination of either hydrochlorothiazide or amlodipine  as well as with both drugs in a single-pill triple combination  showing improvements in antihypertensive efficacy without significant effects on tolerability. this treatment strategy based on a drug with such characteristics and the availability of different types of combinations with other first-line drug classes may represent an effective way for achieving blood pressure control in a majority of hypertensive patients and this could also be related with a better cardiovascular disease prevention.
467,workshop: endothelial cell dysfunction leading to diabetic nephropathy : focus on nitric oxide.,clinical manifestations of diabetic nephropathy are an expression of diabetic microangiopathy. this review revisits the previously proposed steno hypothesis and advances our hypothesis that development of endothelial cell dysfunction represents a common pathophysiological pathway of diabetic complications. specifically  the ability of glucose to scavenge nitric oxide is proposed as the initiation phase of endothelial dysfunction. gradual accumulation of advanced glycated end products and induction of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1  resulting in the decreased expression of endothelial nitric oxide synthase and reduced generation of nitric oxide  are proposed to be pathophysiologically critical for the maintenance phase of endothelial dysfunction. the proposed conceptual shift toward the role of endothelial dysfunction in diabetic complications may provide new strategies for their prevention.
469,autophagic programmed cell death by selective catalase degradation.,autophagy plays a central role in regulating important cellular functions such as cell survival during starvation and control of infectious pathogens. recently  it has been shown that autophagy can induce cells to die; however  the mechanism of the autophagic cell death program is unclear. we now show that caspase inhibition leading to cell death by means of autophagy involves reactive oxygen species (ros) accumulation  membrane lipid oxidation  and loss of plasma membrane integrity. inhibition of autophagy by chemical compounds or knocking down the expression of key autophagy proteins such as atg7  atg8  and receptor interacting protein (rip) blocks ros accumulation and cell death. the cause of abnormal ros accumulation is the selective autophagic degradation of the major enzymatic ros scavenger  catalase. caspase inhibition directly induces catalase degradation and ros accumulation  which can be blocked by autophagy inhibitors. these findings unveil a molecular mechanism for the role of autophagy in cell death and provide insight into the complex relationship between ros and nonapoptotic programmed cell death.
471,engraftment of engineered es cell–derived cardiomyocytes but not bm cells restores contractile function to the infarcted myocardium,cellular cardiomyoplasty is an attractive option for the treatment of severe heart failure. it is  however  still unclear and controversial which is the most promising cell source. therefore  we investigated and examined the fate and functional impact of bone marrow (bm) cells and embryonic stem cell (es cell)–derived cardiomyocytes after transplantation into the infarcted mouse heart. this proved particularly challenging for the es cells  as their enrichment into cardiomyocytes and their long-term engraftment and tumorigenicity are still poorly understood. we generated transgenic es cells expressing puromycin resistance and enhanced green fluorescent protein cassettes under control of a cardiac-specific promoter. puromycin selection resulted in a highly purified (>99%) cardiomyocyte population  and the yield of cardiomyocytes increased 6–10-fold because of induction of proliferation on purification. long-term engraftment (4–5 months) was observed when co-transplanting selected es cell–derived cardiomyocytes and fibroblasts into the injured heart of syngeneic mice  and no teratoma formation was found (n = 60). although transplantation of es cell–derived cardiomyocytes improved heart function  bm cells had no positive effects. furthermore  no contribution of bm cells to cardiac  endothelial  or smooth muscle neogenesis was detected. hence  our results demonstrate that es-based cell therapy is a promising approach for the treatment of impaired myocardial function and provides better results than bm-derived cells.
473,ribose 2′-o-methylation provides a molecular signature for the distinction of self and non-self mrna dependent on the rna sensor mda5,the 5′ cap structures of higher eukaryote mrnas have ribose 2′-o-methylation. likewise  many viruses that replicate in the cytoplasm of eukaryotes have evolved 2′-o-methyltransferases to autonomously modify their mrnas. however  a defined biological role for 2′-o-methylation of mrna remains elusive. here we show that 2′-o-methylation of viral mrna was critically involved in subverting the induction of type i interferon. we demonstrate that human and mouse coronavirus mutants lacking 2′-o-methyltransferase activity induced higher expression of type i interferon and were highly sensitive to type i interferon. notably  the induction of type i interferon by viruses deficient in 2′-o-methyltransferase was dependent on the cytoplasmic rna sensor mda5. this link between mda5-mediated sensing of viral rna and 2′-o-methylation of mrna suggests that rna modifications such as 2′-o-methylation provide a molecular signature for the discrimination of self and non-self mrna.
475,junctional actin assembly is mediated by formin-like 2 downstream of rac1,epithelial integrity is vitally important  and its deregulation causes early stage cancer. de novo formation of an adherens junction (aj) between single epithelial cells requires coordinated  spatial actin dynamics  but the mechanisms steering nascent actin polymerization for cell-cell adhesion initiation are not well understood. here we investigated real-time actin assembly during daughter cell-cell adhesion formation in human breast epithelial cells in 3d environments. we identify formin-like 2 (fmnl2) as being specifically required for actin assembly and turnover at newly formed cell-cell contacts as well as for human epithelial lumen formation. fmnl2 associates with components of the aj complex involving rac1 activity and the fmnl2 c terminus. optogenetic control of rac1 in living cells rapidly drove fmnl2 to epithelial cell-cell contact zones. furthermore  rac1-induced actin assembly and subsequent aj formation critically depends on fmnl2. these data uncover fmnl2 as a driver for human epithelial aj formation downstream of rac1.
477,association of blood monocyte and platelet markers with carotid artery characteristics: the atherosclerosis risk in communities carotid mri study,background: atherosclerosis is characterized by infiltration of inflammatory cells from circulating blood. blood cell activation could play an important role in plaque formation. methods: we analyzed the relationship between blood cellular markers and quantitative measures of carotid wall components in 1 546 participants from the aric (atherosclerosis risk in communities) carotid mri study. carotid imaging was performed using a gadolinium contrast-enhanced mri and cellular phenotyping by flow cytometry. results: monocyte toll-like receptor (tlr)-2 is associated with larger plaques  while cd14  myeloperoxidase  and tlr-4 associate with smaller. platelet cd40l is associated with smaller plaques and thinner caps  while p-selectin is associated with smaller core size. conclusions: blood cell activation is significantly associated with atherosclerotic changes of the carotid wall.
479,diversification in the hiv-1 envelope hyper-variable domains v2  v4  and v5 and higher probability of transmitted/founder envelope glycosylation favor the development of heterologous neutralization breadth,a recent study of plasma neutralization breadth in hiv-1 infected individuals at nine international aids vaccine initiative (iavi) sites reported that viral load  hla-a*03 genotype  and subtype c infection were strongly associated with the development of neutralization breadth. here  we refine the findings of that study by analyzing the impact of the transmitted/founder (t/f) envelope (env)  early env diversification  and autologous neutralization on the development of plasma neutralization breadth in 21 participants identified during recent infection at two of those sites: kigali  rwanda (n = 9) and lusaka  zambia (n = 12). single-genome analysis of full-length t/f env sequences revealed that all 21 individuals were infected with a highly homogeneous population of viral variants  which were categorized as subtype c (n = 12)  a1 (n = 7)  or recombinant ac (n = 2). an extensive amino acid sequence-based analysis of variable loop lengths and glycosylation patterns in the t/f envs revealed that a lower ratio of nxs to nxt-encoded glycan motifs correlated with neutralization breadth. further analysis comparing amino acid sequence changes  insertions/deletions  and glycan motif alterations between the t/f env and autologous early env variants revealed that extensive diversification focused in the v2  v4  and v5 regions of gp120  accompanied by contemporaneous viral escape  significantly favored the development of breadth. these results suggest that more efficient glycosylation of subtype a and c t/f envs through fewer nxs-encoded glycan sites is more likely to elicit antibodies that can transition from autologous to heterologous neutralizing activity following exposure to gp120 diversification. this initiates an env-antibody co-evolution cycle that increases neutralization breadth  and is further augmented over time by additional viral and host factors. these findings suggest that understanding how variation in the efficiency of site-specific glycosylation influences neutralizing antibody elicitation and targeting could advance the design of immunogens aimed at inducing antibodies that can transition from autologous to heterologous neutralizing activity.
481,siglec-1 is a novel dendritic cell receptor that mediates hiv-1 trans-infection through recognition of viral membrane gangliosides,dendritic cells (dcs) are essential antigen-presenting cells for the induction of immunity against pathogens. however  hiv-1 spread is strongly enhanced in clusters of dcs and cd4(+) t cells. uninfected dcs capture hiv-1 and mediate viral transfer to bystander cd4(+) t cells through a process termed trans-infection. initial studies identified the c-type lectin dc-sign as the hiv-1 binding factor on dcs  which interacts with the viral envelope glycoproteins. upon dc maturation  however  dc-sign is down-regulated  while hiv-1 capture and trans-infection is strongly enhanced via a glycoprotein-independent capture pathway that recognizes sialyllactose-containing membrane gangliosides. here we show that the sialic acid-binding ig-like lectin 1 (siglec-1  cd169)  which is highly expressed on mature dcs  specifically binds hiv-1 and vesicles carrying sialyllactose. furthermore  siglec-1 is essential for trans-infection by mature dcs. these findings identify siglec-1 as a key factor for hiv-1 spread via infectious dc/t-cell synapses  highlighting a novel mechanism that mediates hiv-1 dissemination in activated tissues.
483,intrauterine protein restriction combined with early postnatal overfeeding was not associated with adult-onset obesity but produced glucose intolerance by pancreatic dysfunction,we investigated if whether intrauterine protein restriction in combination with overfeeding during lactation would cause adult-onset obesity and metabolic disorders. after birth  litters from dams fed with control (17% protein) and low protein (6% protein) diets were adjusted to a size of four (co and lo groups  respectively) or eight (cc and lc groups  respectively) pups. all of the offspring were fed a diet containing 12% protein from the time of weaning until they were 90 d old. compared to the cc and lc groups  the co and lo groups had higher relative and absolute food intakes  oxygen consumption and carbon dioxide production; lower brown adipose tissue weight and lipid content and greater weight gain and absolute and relative white adipose tissue weight and absolute lipid content. compared with the co and cc rats  the lc and lo rats exhibited higher relative food intake  brown adipose tissue weight and lipid content  reduced oxygen consumption  carbon dioxide production and spontaneous activity  increased relative retroperitoneal adipose tissue weight and unaltered absolute white adipose tissue weight and lipid content. the fasting serum glucose was similar among the groups. the area under the glucose curve was higher in the lo and co rats than in the lc and cc rats. the basal insulinemia and homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance (homa-ir) were lower in the lo group than in the other groups. the total area under the insulin curve for the lo rats was similar to the cc rats  and both were lower than the co and lc rats. kitt was higher in the lo  lc and co groups than in the cc group. thus  intrauterine protein restriction followed by overfeeding during lactation did not induce obesity  but produced glucose intolerance by impairing pancreatic function in adulthood.
485,cell cycle  cdks and cancer: a changing paradigm,tumour-associated cell cycle defects are often mediated by alterations in cyclin-dependent kinase (cdk) activity. misregulated cdks induce unscheduled proliferation as well as genomic and chromosomal instability. according to current models  mammalian cdks are essential for driving each cell cycle phase  so therapeutic strategies that block cdk activity are unlikely to selectively target tumour cells. however  recent genetic evidence has revealed that  whereas cdk1 is required for the cell cycle  interphase cdks are only essential for proliferation of specialized cells. emerging evidence suggests that tumour cells may also require specific interphase cdks for proliferation. thus  selective cdk inhibition may provide therapeutic benefit against certain human neoplasias.
487,regulation of heterochromatic silencing and histone h3 lysine-9 methylation by rnai.,eukaryotic heterochromatin is characterized by a high density of repeats and transposons  as well as by modified histones  and influences both gene expression and chromosome segregation. in the fission yeast schizosaccharomyces pombe  we deleted the argonaute  dicer  and rna-dependent rna polymerase gene homologs  which encode part of the machinery responsible for rna interference (rnai). deletion results in the aberrant accumulation of complementary transcripts from centromeric heterochromatic repeats. this is accompanied by transcriptional de-repression of transgenes integrated at the centromere  loss of histone h3 lysine-9 methylation  and impairment of centromere function. we propose that double-stranded rna arising from centromeric repeats targets formation and maintenance of heterochromatin through rnai.
489,the widespread regulation of microrna biogenesis  function and decay,micrornas (mirnas) are a large family of post-transcriptional regulators of gene expression that are ∼21 nucleotides in length and control many developmental and cellular processes in eukaryotic organisms. research during the past decade has identified major factors participating in mirna biogenesis and has established basic principles of mirna function. more recently  it has become apparent that mirna regulators themselves are subject to sophisticated control. many reports over the past few years have reported the regulation of mirna metabolism and function by a range of mechanisms involving numerous protein–protein and protein–rna interactions. such regulation has an important role in the context-specific functions of mirnas.
491,variants in the toll-interacting protein gene are associated with susceptibility to sepsis in the chinese han population,introduction deregulated or excessive host immune responses contribute to the pathogenesis of sepsis. toll-like receptor (tlr) signaling pathways and their negative regulators play a pivotal role in the modulation of host immune responses and the development of sepsis. the objective of this study was to investigate the association of variants in the tlr signaling pathway genes and their negative regulator genes with susceptibility to sepsis in the chinese han population. methods patients with severe sepsis (n = 378) and healthy control subjects (n = 390) were enrolled. five genes  namely tlr2  tlr4  tlr9  myd88 and tollip  were investigated for their association with sepsis susceptibility by a tag single nucleotide polymorphism (snp) strategy. twelve tag snps were selected based on the data of chinese han in beijing from the hapmap project and genotyped by direct sequencing. the mrna expression levels of tollip were determined using real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (pcr) assays  and concentrations of tumor necrosis factor alpha (tnf-α) and interleukin-6 (il-6) were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (elisa). results our results showed that the minor c-allele of rs5743867 in tollip was significantly associated with the decreased risk of sepsis (padj = 0.00062  odds ratio (or)adj = 0.71  95% confidence interval (ci) 0.59 to 0.86) after adjustment for covariates in multiple logistic regression analysis. a 3-snp haplotype block harboring the associated snp rs5743867 also displayed strong association with omnibus test p value of 0.00049. haplotype gtc showed a protective role against sepsis (padj = 0.0012)  while haplotype gct showed an increased risk for sepsis (padj = 0.00092). after exposure to lipopolysaccharide (lps)  tollip mrna expression levels in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (pbmcs) from homozygotes for the rs5743867c allele were significantly higher than in heterozygotes and homozygotes for the rs5743867t allele (p = 0.013 and p = 0.01  respectively). moreover  the concentrations of tnf-α and il-6 in culture supernatants were significantly lower in the subjects of rs5743867cc genotype than in ct and tt genotype subjects (p = 0.016 and p = 0.003 for tnf-α; p = 0.01 and p = 0.002 for il-6  respectively). conclusions our findings indicated that the variants in tollip were significantly associated with sepsis susceptibility in the chinese han population.
493,a 3d map of the yeast kinetochore reveals the presence of core and accessory centromere-specific histone,the budding yeast kinetochore is ~68 nm in length with a diameter slightly larger than a 25 nm microtubule. the kinetochores from the 16 chromosomes are organized in a stereotypic cluster encircling central spindle microtubules. quantitative analysis of the inner kinetochore cluster (cse4  coma) reveals structural features not apparent in singly attached kinetochores. the cluster of cse4-containing kinetochores is physically larger perpendicular to the spindle axis relative to the cluster of ndc80 molecules. if there was a single cse4 (molecule or nucleosome) at the kinetochore attached to each microtubule plus end  the cluster of cse4 would appear geometrically identical to ndc80. thus  the structure of the inner kinetochore at the surface of the chromosomes remains unsolved. we have used point fluorescence microscopy and statistical probability maps to deduce the two-dimensional mean position of representative components of the yeast kinetochore relative to the mitotic spindle in metaphase. comparison of the experimental images to three-dimensional architectures from convolution of mathematical models reveals a pool of cse4 radially displaced from cse4 at the kinetochore and kinetochore microtubule plus ends. the pool of displaced cse4 can be experimentally depleted in mrna processing pat1δ or xrn1δ mutants. the peripheral cse4 molecules do not template outer kinetochore components. this study suggests an inner kinetochore plate at the centromere-microtubule interface in budding yeast and yields information on the number of ndc80 molecules at the microtubule attachment site.
495,the blm helicase contributes to telomere maintenance through processing of late-replicating intermediate structures,werner's syndrome (ws) and bloom's syndrome (bs) are cancer predisposition disorders caused by loss of function of the recq helicases wrn or blm  respectively. bs and ws are characterized by replication defects  hyperrecombination events and chromosomal aberrations  which are hallmarks of cancer. inefficient replication of the g-rich telomeric strand contributes to chromosome aberrations in ws cells  demonstrating a link between wrn  telomeres and genomic stability. herein  we provide evidence that blm also contributes to chromosome-end maintenance. telomere defects (tds) are observed in blm-deficient cells at an elevated frequency  which is similar to cells lacking a functional wrn helicase. loss of both helicases exacerbates tds and chromosome aberrations  indicating that blm and wrn function independently in telomere maintenance. blm localization  particularly its recruitment to telomeres  changes in response to replication dysfunction  such as in wrn-deficient cells or after aphidicolin treatment. exposure to replication challenge causes an increase in decatenated deoxyribonucleic acid (dna) structures and late-replicating intermediates (lris)  which are visible as blm-covered ultra-fine bridges (ufbs) in anaphase. a subset of ufbs originates from telomeric dna and their frequency correlates with telomere replication defects. we propose that the blm complex contributes to telomere maintenance through its activity in resolving lris.
497,wnt/beta-catenin signaling is required for cns  but not non-cns  angiogenesis.,despite the importance of cns blood vessels  the molecular mechanisms that regulate cns angiogenesis and blood-brain barrier (bbb) formation are largely unknown. here we analyze the role of wnt/beta-catenin signaling in regulating the formation of cns blood vessels. first  through the analysis of top-gal wnt reporter mice  we identify that canonical wnt/beta-catenin signaling is specifically activated in cns  but not non-cns  blood vessels during development. this activation correlates with the expression of different wnt ligands by neural progenitor cells in distinct locations throughout the cns  including wnt7a and wnt7b in ventral regions and wnt1  wnt3  wnt3a  and wnt4 in dorsal regions. blockade of wnt/beta-catenin signaling in vivo specifically disrupts cns  but not non-cns  angiogenesis. these defects include reduction in vessel number  loss of capillary beds  and the formation of hemorrhagic vascular malformations that remain adherent to the meninges. furthermore  we demonstrate that wnt/beta-catenin signaling regulates the expression of the bbb-specific glucose transporter glut-1. taken together these experiments reveal an essential role for wnt/beta-catenin signaling in driving cns-specific angiogenesis and provide molecular evidence that angiogenesis and bbb formation are in part linked.
499,gout-associated uric acid crystals activate the nalp3 inflammasome,development of the acute and chronic inflammatory responses known as gout and pseudogout are associated with the deposition of monosodium urate (msu) or calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate (cppd) crystals  respectively  in joints and periarticular tissues. although msu crystals were first identified as the aetiological agent of gout in the eighteenth century and more recently as a ‘danger signal’ released from dying cells  little is known about the molecular mechanisms underlying msu- or cppd-induced inflammation. here we show that msu and cppd engage the caspase-1-activating nalp3 (also called cryopyrin) inflammasome  resulting in the production of active interleukin (il)-1β and il-18. macrophages from mice deficient in various components of the inflammasome such as caspase-1  asc and nalp3 are defective in crystal-induced il-1β activation. moreover  an impaired neutrophil influx is found in an in vivo model of crystal-induced peritonitis in inflammasome-deficient mice or mice deficient in the il-1β receptor (il-1r). these findings provide insight into the molecular processes underlying the inflammatory conditions of gout and pseudogout  and further support a pivotal role of the inflammasome in several autoinflammatory diseases.
501,recruitment of nck by cd3ϵ reveals a ligand-induced conformational change essential for t cell receptor signaling and synapse formation,how membrane receptors initiate signal transduction upon ligand binding is a matter of intense scrutiny. the t cell receptor complex (tcr-cd3) is composed of tcr alpha/beta ligand binding subunits bound to the cd3 subunits responsible for signal transduction. although it has long been speculated that tcr-cd3 may undergo a conformational change  confirmation is still lacking. we present strong evidence that ligand engagement of tcr-cd3 induces a conformational change that exposes a proline-rich sequence in cd3 epsilon and results in recruitment of the adaptor protein nck. this occurs earlier than and independently of tyrosine kinase activation. finally  by interfering with nck-cd3 epsilon association in vivo  we demonstrate that tcr-cd3 recruitment of nck is critical for maturation of the immune synapse and for t cell activation.
503,the mammalian epigenome,chemical modifications to dna and histone proteins form a complex regulatory network that modulates chromatin structure and genome function. the epigenome refers to the complete description of these potentially heritable changes across the genome. the composition of the epigenome within a given cell is a function of genetic determinants  lineage  and environment. with the sequencing of the human genome completed  investigators now seek a comprehensive view of the epigenetic changes that determine how genetic information is made manifest across an incredibly varied background of developmental stages  tissue types  and disease states. here we review current research efforts  with an emphasis on large-scale studies  emerging technologies  and challenges ahead.
505,the tumor necrosis factor family receptors rank and cd40 cooperatively establish the thymic medullary microenvironment and self-tolerance.,medullary thymic epithelial cells (mtecs) establish t cell self-tolerance through the expression of autoimmune regulator (aire) and peripheral tissue-specific self-antigens. however  signals underlying mtec development remain largely unclear. here  we demonstrate crucial regulation of mtec development by receptor activator of nf-kappab (rank) and cd40 signals. whereas only rank signaling was essential for mtec development during embryogenesis  in postnatal mice  cooperation between cd40 and rank signals was required for mtec development to successfully establish the medullary microenvironment. ligation of rank or cd40 on fetal thymic stroma in vitro induced mtec development in a tumor necrosis factor-associated factor 6 (traf6)-  nf-kappab inducing kinase (nik)-  and ikappab kinase beta (ikkbeta)-dependent manner. these results show that developmental-stage-dependent cooperation between rank and cd40 promotes mtec development  thereby establishing self-tolerance.
507,dna methylation status predicts cell type-specific enhancer activity.,cell-selective glucocorticoid receptor (gr) binding to distal regulatory elements is associated with cell type-specific regions of locally accessible chromatin. these regions can either pre-exist in chromatin (pre-programmed) or be induced by the receptor (de novo). mechanisms that create and maintain these sites are not well understood. we observe a global enrichment of cpg density for pre-programmed elements  and implicate their demethylated state in the maintenance of open chromatin in a tissue-specific manner. in contrast  sites that are actively opened by gr (de novo) are characterized by low cpg density  and form a unique class of enhancers devoid of suppressive effect of agglomerated methyl-cytosines. furthermore  treatment with glucocorticoids induces rapid changes in methylation levels at selected cpgs within de novo sites. finally  we identify gr-binding elements with cpgs at critical positions  and show that methylation can affect gr-dna interactions in vitro. the findings present a unique link between tissue-specific chromatin accessibility  dna methylation and transcription factor binding and show that dna methylation can be an integral component of gene regulation by nuclear receptors.
509,reflecting on 25 years with myc,just over 25 years ago  myc  the human homologue of a retroviral oncogene  was identified. since that time  myc research has been intense and the advances impressive. on reflection  it is astonishing how each incremental insight into myc regulation and function has also had an impact on numerous biological disciplines  including our understanding of molecular oncogenesis in general. here we chronicle the major advances in our understanding of myc biology  and peer into the future of myc research.
511,the effect of cigarette smoking  alcohol consumption and fruit and vegetable consumption on ivf outcomes: a review and presentation of original data,background lifestyle factors including cigarette smoking  alcohol consumption and nutritional habits impact on health  wellness  and the risk of chronic diseases. in the areas of in-vitro fertilization (ivf) and pregnancy  lifestyle factors influence oocyte production  fertilization rates  pregnancy and pregnancy loss  while chronic  low-grade oxidative stress may underlie poor outcomes for some ivf cases. methods here  we review the current literature and present some original  previously unpublished data  obtained from couples attending the pivet medical centre in western australia. results during the study  80 % of females and 70 % of male partners completed a 1-week diary documenting their smoking  alcohol and fruit and vegetable intake. the subsequent clinical outcomes of their ivf treatment such as quantity of oocytes collected  fertilization rates  pregnancy and pregnancy loss were submitted to multiple regression analysis  in order to investigate the relationship between patients  treatment and the recorded lifestyle factors. of significance  it was found that male smoking caused an increased risk of pregnancy loss (p = 0.029)  while female smoking caused an adverse effect on ovarian reserve. both alcohol consumption (β = 0.074  p < 0.001) and fruit and vegetable consumption (β = 0.034  p < 0.001) had positive effects on fertilization. conclusion based on our results and the current literature  there is an important impact of lifestyle factors on ivf clinical outcomes. currently  there are conflicting results regarding other lifestyle factors such as nutritional habits and alcohol consumption  but it is apparent that chronic oxidative stress induced by lifestyle factors and poor nutritional habits associate with a lower rate of ivf success.
513,histone variant h2a.z marks the 5′ ends of both active and inactive genes in euchromatin,in s. cerevisiae  histone variant h2a.z is deposited in euchromatin at the flanks of silent heterochromatin to prevent its ectopic spread. we show that h2a.z nucleosomes are found at promoter regions of nearly all genes in euchromatin. they generally occur as two positioned nucleosomes that flank a nucleosome-free region (nfr) that contains the transcription start site. astonishingly  enrichment at 5' ends is observed not only at actively transcribed genes but also at inactive loci. mutagenesis of a typical promoter revealed a 22 bp segment of dna sufficient to program formation of a nfr flanked by two h2a.z nucleosomes. this segment contains a binding site of the myb-related protein reb1 and an adjacent dt:da tract. efficient deposition of h2a.z is further promoted by a specific pattern of histone h3 and h4 tail acetylation and the bromodomain protein bdf1  a component of the swr1 remodeling complex that deposits h2a.z.
515,hiv-1 regulation of latency in the monocyte-macrophage lineage and in cd4+ t lymphocytes.,the introduction in 1996 of the haart raised hopes for the eradication of hiv-1. unfortunately  the discovery of latent hiv-1 reservoirs in cd4+ t cells and in the monocyte-macrophage lineage proved the optimism to be premature. the long-lived hiv-1 reservoirs constitute a major obstacle to the eradication of hiv-1. in this review  we focus on the establishment and maintenance of hiv-1 latency in the two major targets for hiv-1: the cd4+ t cells and the monocyte-macrophage lineage. understanding the cell-type molecular mechanisms of establishment  maintenance  and reactivation of hiv-1 latency in these reservoirs is crucial for efficient therapeutic intervention. a complete viral eradication  the holy graal for clinicians  might be achieved by strategic interventions targeting latently and productively infected cells. we suggest that new approaches  such as the combination of different kinds of proviral activators  may help to reduce dramatically the size of latent hiv-1 reservoirs in patients on haart.
517,t cell receptor ligation induces the formation of dynamically regulated signaling assemblies,tcell antigen receptor (tcr) ligation initiates tyrosine kinase activation  signaling complex assembly  and immune synapse formation. here  we studied the kinetics and mechanics of signaling complex formation in live jurkat leukemic t cells using signaling proteins fluorescently tagged with variants of enhanced gfp (egfp). within seconds of contacting coverslips coated with stimulatory antibodies  t cells developed small  dynamically regulated clusters which were enriched in the tcr  phosphotyrosine  zap-70  lat  grb2  gads  and slp-76  excluded the lipid raft marker enhanced yellow fluorescent protein–gpi  and were competent to induce calcium elevations. lat  grb2  and gads were transiently associated with the tcr. although zap-70–containing clusters persisted for more than 20 min  photobleaching studies revealed that zap-70 continuously dissociated from and returned to these complexes. strikingly  slp-76 translocated to a perinuclear structure after clustering with the tcr. our results emphasize the dynamically changing composition of signaling complexes and indicate that these complexes can form within seconds of tcr engagement  in the absence of either lipid raft aggregation or the formation of a central tcr-rich cluster.
519,pre-eclampsia: connecting angiogenic and metabolic pathways.,pre-eclampsia is a hypertensive disease of pregnancy with a worldwide incidence of 5-8%. this review focuses on recent developments in pre-eclampsia research related to angiogenesis and metabolism. we first address the 'angiogenic imbalance' theory  which hypothesizes that pre-eclampsia results from an imbalance of factors that promote or antagonize angiogenesis  such as soluble fms-like tyrosine kinase (sflt1)  2-methoxyestradiol (2-me) and catechol-o-methyltransferase (comt). next  we analyze the association between pre-eclampsia and dysfunctional metabolism of both homocysteine and placental glycogen. we hope that illuminating some of the various connections existing between angiogenesis and metabolism in pre-eclampsia will facilitate the update or reconsideration of old models of pathogenesis.
521,differential specificity of endocrine fgf19 and fgf21 to fgfr1 and fgfr4 in complex with klb,background recent studies suggest that betaklotho (klb) and endocrine fgf19 and fgf21 redirect fgfr signaling to regulation of metabolic homeostasis and suppression of obesity and diabetes. however  the identity of the predominant metabolic tissue in which a major fgfr-klb resides that critically mediates the differential actions and metabolism effects of fgf19 and fgf21 remain unclear. methodology/principal findings we determined the receptor and tissue specificity of fgf21 in comparison to fgf19 by using direct  sensitive and quantitative binding kinetics  and downstream signal transduction and expression of early response gene upon administration of fgf19 and fgf21 in mice. we found that fgf21 binds fgfr1 with much higher affinity than fgfr4 in presence of klb; while fgf19 binds both fgfr1 and fgfr4 in presence of klb with comparable affinity. the interaction of fgf21 with fgfr4-klb is very weak even at high concentration and could be negligible at physiological concentration. both fgf19 and fgf21 but not fgf1 exhibit binding affinity to klb. the binding of fgf1 is dependent on where fgfrs are present. both fgf19 and fgf21 are unable to displace the fgf1 binding  and conversely fgf1 cannot displace fgf19 and fgf21 binding. these results indicate that klb is an indispensable mediator for the binding of fgf19 and fgf21 to fgfrs that is not required for fgf1. although fgf19 can predominantly activate the responses of the liver and to a less extent the adipose tissue  fgf21 can do so significantly only in the adipose tissue and adipocytes. among several metabolic and endocrine tissues  the response of adipose tissue to fgf21 is predominant  and can be blunted by the ablation of klb or fgfr1. conclusions our results indicate that unlike fgf19  fgf21 is unable to bind fgfr4-klb complex with affinity comparable to fgfr1-klb  and therefore  at physiological concentration less likely to directly and significantly target the liver where fgfr4-klb predominantly resides. however  both fgf21 and fgf19 have the potential to activate responses of primarily the adipose tissue where fgfr1-klb resides.
523,dna fragments in the blood plasma of cancer patients: quantitations and evidence for their origin from apoptotic and necrotic cells.,increased levels of dna fragments have frequently been found in the blood plasma of cancer patients. published data suggest that only a fraction of the dna in blood plasma is derived from cancer cells. however  it is not known how much of the circulating dna is from cancer or from noncancer cells. by quantitative methylation-specific pcr of the promoter region of the cdkn2a tumor suppressor gene  we were able to quantify the fraction of plasma dna derived from tumor cells. in the plasma samples of 30 unselected cancer patients  we detected quantities of tumor dna from only 3% to as much as 93% of total circulating dna. we investigated possible origins of nontumor dna in the plasma and demonstrate here a contribution of t-cell dna in a few cases only. to investigate the possibility that plasma dna originates from apoptotic or necrotic cells  we performed studies with apoptotic (staurosporine) and necrotic (staurosporine plus oligomycin) cells in vitro and with mice after induction of apoptotic (anti-cd95) or necrotic (acetaminophen) liver injury. increasing amounts of dna were found to be released in the supernatants of cells and in the blood plasma samples of treated animals. a clear discrimination of apoptotic and necrotic plasma dna was possible by gel electrophoresis. the same characteristic patterns of dna fragments could be identified in plasma derived from different cancer patients. the data are consistent with the possibility that apoptotic and necrotic cells are a major source for plasma dna in cancer patients.
525,proinflammatory cytokines underlying the inflammation of crohn's disease.,purpose of review to encapsulate our current understanding of the proinflammatory cytokines responsible for the inflammation underlying crohn's disease and the prospect of using this information to devise therapy for this condition based on inhibition of these cytokines. recent findings current research is shedding new light on the role of both t helper cell (th)1 and th17 responses in the pathogenesis of crohn's disease. initial studies conducted a decade ago highlighted the view that crohn's disease inflammation is caused by an interleukin-12-driven th1 response  which resulted in the generation of interferon-gamma  which then served as the main inflammatory mediator. in recent years  however  this view has been largely eclipsed by studies  conducted mainly in murine models  showing that a th17 response is the main cause of crohn's disease inflammation through the production of interleukin-17. now  a somewhat more balanced view is emerging  which holds that interferon-gamma is still a major proinflammatory cytokine in crohn's disease  although it may arise from both the th1 and th17-mediated responses at different phases of the inflammatory process. summary the new findings continue to support the idea that anti-interleukin-12p40  an antibody that inhibits both the th1 and th17 response  is logically the most potent anticytokine for the treatment of crohn's disease.
527,the multidrug abc transporter bmrc/bmrd of bacillus subtilis is regulated via a ribosome-mediated transcriptional attenuation mechanism,expression of particular drug transporters in response to antibiotic pressure is a critical element in the development of bacterial multidrug resistance  and represents a serious concern for human health. to obtain a better understanding of underlying regulatory mechanisms  we have dissected the transcriptional activation of the atp-binding cassette (abc) transporter bmrc/bmrd of the gram-positive model bacterium bacillus subtilis. by using promoter-gfp fusions and live cell array technology  we demonstrate a temporally controlled transcriptional activation of the bmrcd genes in response to antibiotics that target protein synthesis. intriguingly  bmrcd expression only occurs during the late-exponential and stationary growth stages  irrespective of the timing of the antibiotic challenge. we show that this is due to tight transcriptional control by the transition state regulator abrb. moreover  our results show that the bmrcd genes are co-transcribed with bmrb (yhej)  a small open reading frame immediately upstream of bmrc that harbors three alternative stem-loop structures. these stem-loops are apparently crucial for antibiotic-induced bmrcd transcription. importantly  the antibiotic-induced bmrcd expression requires translation of bmrb  which implies that bmrb serves as a regulatory leader peptide. altogether  we demonstrate for the first time that a ribosome-mediated transcriptional attenuation mechanism can control the expression of a multidrug abc transporter.
529,hotspots of aberrant epigenomic reprogramming in human induced pluripotent stem cells,induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs) offer immense potential for regenerative medicine and studies of disease and development. somatic cell reprogramming involves epigenomic reconfiguration  conferring ipscs with characteristics similar to embryonic stem (es) cells. however  it remains unknown how complete the reestablishment of es-cell-like dna methylation patterns is throughout the genome. here we report the first whole-genome profiles of dna methylation at single-base resolution in five human ipsc lines  along with methylomes of es cells  somatic cells  and differentiated ipscs and es cells. ipscs show significant reprogramming variability  including somatic memory and aberrant reprogramming of dna methylation. ipscs share megabase-scale differentially methylated regions proximal to centromeres and telomeres that display incomplete reprogramming of non-cg methylation  and differences in cg methylation and histone modifications. lastly  differentiation of ipscs into trophoblast cells revealed that errors in reprogramming cg methylation are transmitted at a high frequency  providing an ipsc reprogramming signature that is maintained after differentiation.
531,cytoscape 2.8: new features for data integration and network visualization,unlabelled cytoscape is a popular bioinformatics package for biological network visualization and data integration. version 2.8 introduces two powerful new features--custom node graphics and attribute equations--which can be used jointly to greatly enhance cytoscape's data integration and visualization capabilities. custom node graphics allow an image to be projected onto a node  including images generated dynamically or at remote locations. attribute equations provide cytoscape with spreadsheet-like functionality in which the value of an attribute is computed dynamically as a function of other attributes and network properties. availability and implementation cytoscape is a desktop java application released under the library gnu public license (lgpl). binary install bundles and source code for cytoscape 2.8 are available for download from http://cytoscape.org.
533,mechanistic characterization of the sulfur-relay system for eukaryotic 2-thiouridine biogenesis at trna wobble positions,the wobble modification in trnas  5-methoxycarbonylmethyl-2-thiouridine (mcm(5)s(2)u)  is required for the proper decoding of nnr codons in eukaryotes. the 2-thio group confers conformational rigidity of mcm(5)s(2)u by largely fixing the c3'-endo ribose puckering  ensuring stable and accurate codon-anticodon pairing. we have identified five genes in saccharomyces cerevisiae  yil008w (urm1)  yhr111w (uba4)  yor251c (tum1)  ynl119w (ncs2) and ygl211w (ncs6)  that are required for 2-thiolation of mcm(5)s(2)u. an in vitro sulfur transfer experiment revealed that tum1p stimulated the cysteine desulfurase of nfs1p  and accepted persulfide sulfurs from nfs1p. urm1 is a ubiquitin-related modifier  and uba4 is an e1-like enzyme involved in protein urmylation. the carboxy-terminus of urm1p was activated as an acyl-adenylate (-coamp)  then thiocarboxylated (-cosh) by uba4p. the activated thiocarboxylate can be utilized in the subsequent reactions for 2-thiouridine formation  mediated by ncs2p/ncs6p. we could successfully reconstitute the 2-thiouridine formation in vitro using recombinant proteins. this study revealed that 2-thiouridine formation shares a pathway and chemical reactions with protein urmylation. the sulfur-flow of eukaryotic 2-thiouridine formation is distinct mechanism from the bacterial sulfur-relay system which is based on the persulfide chemistry.
535,characterization of biochemical properties of bacillus subtilis recq helicase.,recq family helicases function as safeguards of the genome. unlike escherichia coli  the gram-positive bacillus subtilis bacterium possesses two recq-like homologues  recq[bs] and recs  which are required for the repair of dna double-strand breaks. recq[bs] also binds to the forked dna to ensure a smooth progression of the cell cycle. here we present the first biochemical analysis of recombinant recq[bs]. recq[bs] binds weakly to single-stranded dna (ssdna) and blunt-ended double-stranded dna (dsdna) but strongly to forked dsdna. the protein exhibits a dna-stimulated atpase activity and atp- and mg(2+)-dependent dna helicase activity with a 3' → 5' polarity. molecular modeling shows that recq[bs] shares high sequence and structure similarity with e. coli recq. surprisingly  recq[bs] resembles the truncated saccharomyces cerevisiae sgs1 and human recq helicases more than recq[ec] with regard to its enzymatic activities. specifically  recq[bs] unwinds forked dsdna and dna duplexes with a 3'-overhang but is inactive on blunt-ended dsdna and 5'-overhung duplexes. interestingly  recq[bs] unwinds blunt-ended dna with structural features  including nicks  gaps  5'-flaps  kappa joints  synthetic replication forks  and holliday junctions. we discuss these findings in the context of recq[bs]'s possible functions in preserving genomic stability.
537,the prognostic impact of the platelet distribution width-to-platelet count ratio in patients with breast cancer,activated platelets promote tumor cell growth  angiogenesis  and invasion. platelet activity can be inferred by platelet volume indices (pvis)  which include platelet distribution width (pdw)  mean platelet volume (mpv)  platelet distribution width-to-platelet count ratio (pdw/p)  and mean platelet volume-to-platelet count ratio. platelets and platelet-related markers  such as the platelet-to-lymphocyte ratio  have been found to be significant prognostic factors in patients with breast cancer. however  the role of pvis for predicting survival in breast cancer remains unknown; hence  we performed this retrospective analysis of 275 patients with breast cancer. pvis were compared with clinicopathological variables  and were assessed to identify independent indicators associated with disease-free survival (dfs) using the cox proportional hazards model. an elevated pdw/p significantly correlated with age and her2 status. univariate analysis revealed that elevated pdw  mpv  and pdw/p as well as tumor size  nuclear grade  and lymph node involvement were significantly associated with inferior dfs rates (tumor size: p<0.01; nuclear grade  lymph node involvement  pdw  mpv  and pdw/p: p<0.05). on multivariate analysis  a large tumor size and elevated pdw/p were significant prognostic factors for dfs  with hazard ratios of 3.24 (95% confidence interval [ci]: 1.24-8.47) and 2.99 (95% ci: 1.18-7.57)  respectively (p<0.05). our study is the first to reveal that an elevated pdw/p significantly reduces dfs in patients with breast carcinoma. measuring the pdw/p is simple  relatively inexpensive  and almost universally available using routine blood counts; this makes it an attractive biomarker for improved risk assessment.
539,lam6 regulates the extent of contacts between organelles,communication between organelles is crucial for eukaryotic cells to function as one coherent unit. an important means of communication is through membrane contact sites  where two organelles come into close proximity allowing the transport of lipids and small solutes between them. contact sites are dynamic in size and can change in response to environmental or cellular stimuli; however  how this is regulated has been unclear. here  we show that saccharomyces cerevisiae lam6 resides in several central contact sites: ermes (er/mitochondria encounter structure)  vclamp (vacuole and mitochondria patch)  and nvj (nuclear vacuolar junction). we show that lam6 is sufficient for expansion of contact sites under physiological conditions and necessary for coordination of contact site size. given that lam6 is part of a large protein family and is conserved in vertebrates  our work opens avenues for investigating the underlying principles of organelle communication.
541,endothelial-to-mesenchymal transition contributes to cardiac fibrosis,cardiac fibrosis  associated with a decreased extent of microvasculature and with disruption of normal myocardial structures  results from excessive deposition of extracellular matrix  which is mediated by the recruitment of fibroblasts. the source of these fibroblasts is unclear and specific anti-fibrotic therapies are not currently available. here we show that cardiac fibrosis is associated with the emergence of fibroblasts originating from endothelial cells  suggesting an endothelial-mesenchymal transition (endmt) similar to events that occur during formation of the atrioventricular cushion in the embryonic heart. transforming growth factor-β1 (tgf-β1) induced endothelial cells to undergo endmt  whereas bone morphogenic protein 7 (bmp-7) preserved the endothelial phenotype. the systemic administration of recombinant human bmp-7 (rhbmp-7) significantly inhibited endmt and the progression of cardiac fibrosis in mouse models of pressure overload and chronic allograft rejection. our findings show that endmt contributes to the progression of cardiac fibrosis and that rhbmp-7 can be used to inhibit endmt and to intervene in the progression of chronic heart disease associated with fibrosis.
543,cdk11 is a rangtp-dependent microtubule stabilization factor that regulates spindle assembly rate,production of ran-guanosine triphosphate (gtp) around chromosomes induces local nucleation and plus end stabilization of microtubules (mts). the nuclear protein tpx2 is required for rangtp-dependent mt nucleation. to find the mt stabilizer  we affinity purify nuclear localization signal (nls)-containing proteins from xenopus laevis egg extracts. this nls protein fraction contains the mt stabilization activity. after further purification  we used mass spectrometry to identify proteins in active fractions  including cyclin-dependent kinase 11 (cdk11). cdk11 localizes on spindle poles and mts in xenopus culture cells and egg extracts. recombinant cdk11 demonstrates rangtp-dependent mt stabilization activity  whereas a kinase-dead mutant does not. inactivation of cdk11 in egg extracts blocks rangtp-dependent mt stabilization and dramatically decreases the spindle assembly rate. simultaneous depletion of tpx2 completely inhibits centrosome-dependent spindle assembly. our results indicate that cdk11 is responsible for rangtp-dependent mt stabilization around chromosomes and that this local stabilization is essential for normal rates of spindle assembly and spindle function.
545,identification and analysis of ribonuclease p and mrp rna in a broad range of eukaryotes,rnases p and mrp are ribonucleoprotein complexes involved in trna and rrna processing  respectively. the rna subunits of these two enzymes are structurally related to each other and play an essential role in the enzymatic reaction. both of the rnas have a highly conserved helical region  p4  which is important in the catalytic reaction. we have used a bioinformatics approach based on conserved elements to computationally analyze available genomic sequences of eukaryotic organisms and have identified a large number of novel nuclear rnase p and mrp rna genes. for mrp rna for instance  this investigation increases the number of known sequences by a factor of three. we present secondary structure models of many of the predicted rnas. although all sequences are able to fold into the consensus secondary structure of p and mrp rnas  a striking variation in size is observed  ranging from a nosema locustae mrp rna of 160 nt to much larger rnas  e.g. a plasmodium knowlesi p rna of 696 nt. the p and mrp rna genes appear in tandem in some protists  further emphasizing the close evolutionary relationship of these rnas.
547,evolution of virulence in opportunistic pathogens: generalism  plasticity  and control,standard virulence evolution theory assumes that virulence factors are maintained because they aid parasitic exploitation  increasing growth within and/or transmission between hosts. an increasing number of studies now demonstrate that many opportunistic pathogens (ops) do not conform to these assumptions  with virulence factors maintained instead because of advantages in non-parasitic contexts. here we review virulence evolution theory in the context of ops and highlight the importance of incorporating environments outside a focal virulence site. we illustrate that virulence selection is constrained by correlations between these external and focal settings and pinpoint drivers of key environmental correlations  with a focus on generalist strategies and phenotypic plasticity. we end with a summary of key theoretical and empirical challenges to be met for a fuller understanding of ops.
549,detecting and characterizing circular rnas,circular rna transcripts were first identified in the early 1990s but knowledge of these species has remained limited  as their study through traditional methods of rna analysis has been difficult. now  novel bioinformatic approaches coupled with biochemical enrichment strategies and deep sequencing have allowed comprehensive studies of circular rna species. recent studies have revealed thousands of endogenous circular rnas in mammalian cells  some of which are highly abundant and evolutionarily conserved. evidence is emerging that some circrnas might regulate microrna (mirna) function  and roles in transcriptional control have also been suggested. therefore  study of this class of noncoding rnas has potential implications for therapeutic and research applications. we believe the key future challenge for the field will be to understand the regulation and function of these unusual molecules.
551,alcohol intake and blood pressure: a systematic review implementing a mendelian randomization approach,background alcohol has been reported to be a common and modifiable risk factor for hypertension. however  observational studies are subject to confounding by other behavioural and sociodemographic factors  while clinical trials are difficult to implement and have limited follow-up time. mendelian randomization can provide robust evidence on the nature of this association by use of a common polymorphism in aldehyde dehydrogenase 2 (aldh2) as a surrogate for measuring alcohol consumption. aldh2 encodes a major enzyme involved in alcohol metabolism. individuals homozygous for the null variant (*2*2) experience adverse symptoms when drinking alcohol and consequently drink considerably less alcohol than wild-type homozygotes (*1*1) or heterozygotes. we hypothesise that this polymorphism may influence the risk of hypertension by affecting alcohol drinking behaviour. methods and findings we carried out fixed effect meta-analyses of the aldh2 genotype with blood pressure (five studies  n = 7 658) and hypertension (three studies  n = 4 219) using studies identified via systematic review. in males  we obtained an overall odds ratio of 2.42 (95% confidence interval [ci] 1.66-3.55  p = 4.8 x 10(-6)) for hypertension comparing *1*1 with *2*2 homozygotes and an odds ratio of 1.72 (95% ci 1.17-2.52  p = 0.006) comparing heterozygotes (surrogate for moderate drinkers) with *2*2 homozygotes. systolic blood pressure was 7.44 mmhg (95% ci 5.39-9.49  p = 1.1 x 10(-12)) greater among *1*1 than among *2*2 homozygotes  and 4.24 mmhg (95% ci 2.18-6.31  p = 0.00005) greater among heterozygotes than among *2*2 homozygotes. conclusions these findings support the hypothesis that alcohol intake has a marked effect on blood pressure and the risk of hypertension.
553,wortmannin  a phosphoinositide 3-kinase inhibitor  selectively enhances cytotoxicity of receptor-directed-toxin chimeras in vitro and in vivo.,background generalized resistance of some neoplastic cell lines to treatment with ligand-toxin chimeras has been attributed to an increased rate of lysosomal uptake and degradation following endocytosis of the chimera-receptor complex. because phosphoinositide 3-kinase (pl 3-kinase) activity is known to play a role in intracellular trafficking  particularly from endosomes to lysosomes  we hypothesized that co-exposing cells to the pl 3-kinase inhibitor  wortmannin  might enhance cytotoxicity of ligand-toxin chimeras. methods in vitro  cytotoxicity of five receptor directed-toxin chimeras (bfgf-sap  bfgf-pe  afgf-pe  hbegf-sap  bfgf-gelonin) and an immunotoxin (11a8-sap) was examined in the presence or absence of this pl 3-kinase inhibitor against a panel of human neoplastic cell lines: sk-mel-5 (melanoma)  pa-1 (ovarian teratocarcinoma)  du145 (prostatic carcinoma) and mcf-7 (breast carcinoma). in vivo  antitumor activity of a treatment regimen combining wortmannin (1 or 2 mg/kg i.p.) and bfgf-sap (10 micrograms/kg i.v.) once a week for 4 weeks was evaluated compared to administration of each agent alone in c3h/hen mice implanted with the fsallc murine fibrosarcoma. results at concentrations greater than the reported ki for pl 3-kinase inhibition (1-10 microm)  wortmannin enhanced cytotoxicity when combined with saporin or gelonin chimeras  but produced subadditive cytotoxicity when combined with pseudomonas exotoxin chimeras. when low nanomolar concentrations selective for pl 3-kinase inhibition (5-100 nm) were examined for effects on one receptor directed-toxin chimera  wortmannin dramatically enhanced bfgf-sap cytotoxicity in three of the four cell lines. a different pl 3-kinase inhibitor  ly294002 (ki approximately 1 microm)  however  failed to potentiate bfgf-sap. when administered to mice  wortmannin combined with bfgf-sap resulted in a significant decrease in tumor volumes compared to vehicle-treated controls that was not observed in mice treated with either agent alone. conclusions taken together  these results suggest that although wortmannin increases the cytotoxic efficacy of some receptor-directed chimeras  potentiation may occur through an alternative pathway not involving pl 3-kinase inhibition.
555,pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (pacap)  a neuron-derived peptide regulating glial glutamate transport and metabolism,in the brain  glutamatergic neurotransmission is terminated predominantly by the rapid uptake of synaptically released glutamate into astrocytes through the na(+)-dependent glutamate transporters glt-1 and glast and its subsequent conversion into glutamine by the enzyme glutamine synthetase (gs). to date  several factors have been identified that rapidly alter glial glutamate uptake by post-translational modification of glutamate transporters. the only condition known to affect the expression of glial glutamate transporters and gs is the coculturing of glia with neurons. we now demonstrate that neurons regulate glial glutamate turnover via pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (pacap). in the cerebral cortex pacap is synthesized by neurons and acts on the subpopulation of astroglia involved in glutamate turnover. exposure of astroglia to pacap increased the maximal velocity of [(3)h]glutamate uptake by promoting the expression of glt-1  glast  and gs. moreover  the stimulatory effects of neuron-conditioned medium on glial glutamate transporter expression were attenuated in the presence of pacap-inactivating antibodies or the pacap receptor antagonist pacap 6-38. in contrast to pacap  vasoactive intestinal peptide promoted glutamate transporter expression only at distinctly higher concentrations  suggesting that pacap exerts its effects on glial glutamate turnover via pac1 receptors. although pac1 receptor-dependent activation of protein kinase a (pka) was sufficient to promote the expression of glast  the activation of both pka and protein kinase c (pkc) was required to promote glt-1 expression optimally. given the existence of various pac1 receptor isoforms that activate pka and pkc to different levels  these findings point to a complex mechanism by which pacap regulates glial glutamate transport and metabolism. disturbances of these regulatory mechanisms could represent a major cause for glutamate-associated neurological and psychiatric disorders.
557,genetic variants rs1994016 and rs3825807 in adamts7 affect its mrna expression in atherosclerotic occlusive peripheral arterial disease,aim peripheral artery disease (pad) is a vascular disease affecting peripheral circulation. recently  genome-wide association studies revealed a relationship between single nucleotide polymorphisms (snps) in adamts7 (a disintegrin and metalloprotease with thrombospondin motif 7) and atherosclerosis. in this study  we aimed to determine adamts7 expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (pbmcs) and the frequency of adamts7 rs1994016 and rs3825807 polymorphisms in a sample of turkish patients with pad  and to evaluate the association of matrix metalloproteinase (mmp) levels with pad development. methods in this case-control study  adamts7mrna and protein expression was determined using reverse transcription quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (rt-qpcr) and western blot  respectively  and rs1994016 and rs3825807 variants in adamts7 were determined by real-time pcr in 115 pad patients and 116 healthy controls. plasma levels of nine mmps were determined using a multiplex immunoassay system. results adamts7mrna levels were significantly higher in pad patients than in controls (t=-2.75  p=.007). there was no significant difference in the frequencies of rs1994016 and rs3825807 between pad patients and controls (p>.05). in pad patients  adamts7mrna levels were significantly increased for the cc genotype of rs1994016 (t=-2.31  p=.026) and tt genotype of rs3825807 (t=-2.23  p=.032). furthermore  plasma levels of mmp-1  mmp-3  mmp-7  mmp-10  mmp-12  and mmp-13 were significantly higher in pad patients than in controls (p<.05). conclusion this is the first report of the relationship between pad and adamts7 expression and the effects of the rs1994016 and rs3825807 variants on pad development. adamts7 may be associated with pad development.
559,mira-seq for dna methylation analysis of cpg islands,aim to develop a reliable method for whole genome analysis of dna methylation. materials & methods genome-scale analysis of dna methylation includes affinity-based approaches such as enrichment using methyl-cpg-binding proteins. one of these methods  the methylated-cpg island recovery assay (mira)  is based on the high affinity of the mbd2b-mbd3l1 complex for cpg-methylated dna. here we provide a detailed description of mira and combine it with next generation sequencing platforms (mira-seq). results we assessed the performance of mira-seq and compared the data with whole genome bisulfite sequencing. conclusion mira-seq is a reliable  genome-scale dna methylation analysis platform for scoring dna methylation differences at cpg-rich genomic regions. the method is not limited by primer or probe design and is cost effective.
561,mobilization of intracellular copper stores by the ctr2 vacuolar copper transporter.,copper plays an essential role in processes including signaling to the transcription and protein trafficking machinery  oxidative phosphorylation  iron mobilization  neuropeptide maturation  and normal development. whereas much is known about intracellular mobilization of ions such as calcium  little information is available on how eukaryotic cells mobilize intracellular copper stores. we describe a mechanism by which the saccharomyces cerevisiae ctr2 protein provides bioavailable copper via mobilization of intracellular copper stores. whereas ctr2 exhibits structural similarity to the ctr1 plasma membrane copper importer  microscopic and biochemical fractionation studies localize ctr2 to the vacuole membrane. we demonstrate that ctr2 mobilizes vacuolar copper stores in a manner dependent on amino acid residues conserved between the ctr1 and ctr2 copper transport family and that ctr2 delta mutants hyper-accumulate vacuolar copper. furthermore  a ctr2 mutant that is mislocalized to the plasma membrane stimulates extracellular copper uptake  supporting a direct role for ctr2 in copper transport across membranes. these studies identify a novel mechanism for copper mobilization and suggest that organisms cope with copper deprivation via the use of intracellular vesicular stores.
563,two-sided confidence intervals for the single proportion: comparison of seven methods. stat. med,simple interval estimate methods for proportions exhibit poor coverage and can produce evidently inappropriate intervals. criteria appropriate to the evaluation of various proposed methods include: closeness of the achieved coverage probability to its nominal value; whether intervals are located too close to or too distant from the middle of the scale; expected interval width; avoidance of aberrations such as limits outside [0 1] or zero width intervals; and ease of use  whether by tables  software or formulae. seven methods for the single proportion are evaluated on 96 000 parameter space points. intervals based on tail areas and the simpler score methods are recommended for use. in each case  methods are available that aim to align either the minimum or the mean coverage with the nominal 1 -alpha.
565,regulation and function of the e-cadherin/catenin complex in cells of the monocyte-macrophage lineage and dcs.,e-cadherin is best characterized as adherens junction protein  which through homotypic interactions contributes to the maintenance of the epithelial barrier function. in epithelial cells  the cytoplasmic tail of e-cadherin forms a dynamic complex with catenins and regulates several intracellular signal transduction pathways  including wnt/β-catenin  pi3k/akt  rho gtpase  and nf-κb signaling. recent progress uncovered a novel and critical role for this adhesion molecule in mononuclear phagocyte functions. e-cadherin regulates the maturation and migration of langerhans cells  and its ligation prevents the induction of a tolerogenic state in bone marrow-derived dendritic cells (dcs). in this respect  the functionality of β-catenin could be instrumental in determining the balance between immunogenicity and tolerogenicity of dcs in vitro and in vivo. fusion of alternatively activated macrophages and osteoclasts is also e-cadherin-dependent. in addition  the e-cadherin ligands cd103 and klrg1 are expressed on dc-  t-  and nk-cell subsets and contribute to their interaction with e-cadherin-expressing dcs and macrophages. here we discuss the regulation  function  and implications of e-cadherin expression in these central orchestrators of the immune system.
567,neuronal circuitry mechanism regulating adult quiescent neural stem cell fate decision,adult neurogenesis arises from neural stem cells within specialized niches. neuronal activity and experience  presumably acting on this local niche  regulate multiple stages of adult neurogenesis  from neural progenitor proliferation to new neuron maturation  synaptic integration and survival. it is unknown whether local neuronal circuitry has a direct impact on adult neural stem cells. here we show that  in the adult mouse hippocampus  nestin-expressing radial glia-like quiescent neural stem cells (rgls) respond tonically to the neurotransmitter γ-aminobutyric acid (gaba) by means of γ2-subunit-containing gabaa receptors. clonal analysis of individual rgls revealed a rapid exit from quiescence and enhanced symmetrical self-renewal after conditional deletion of γ2. rgls are in close proximity to terminals expressing 67-kda glutamic acid decarboxylase (gad67) of parvalbumin-expressing (pv+) interneurons and respond tonically to gaba released from these neurons. functionally  optogenetic control of the activity of dentate pv+ interneurons  but not that of somatostatin-expressing or vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (vip)-expressing interneurons  can dictate the rgl choice between quiescence and activation. furthermore  pv+ interneuron activation restores rgl quiescence after social isolation  an experience that induces rgl activation and symmetrical division. our study identifies a niche cell–signal–receptor trio and a local circuitry mechanism that control the activation and self-renewal mode of quiescent adult neural stem cells in response to neuronal activity and experience.
569,identification and characterization of a novel monocyte/macrophage differentiation-dependent gene that is responsive to lipopolysaccharide  ceramide  and lysophosphatidylcholine.,a novel differentiation-dependent cdna (dif-2) has been isolated from human mononuclear phagocytes by differential display. the full-length cdna was cloned and sequenced. dif-2 consists of 156 amino acids and has a predicted isoelectric point of 8.84. the mrna is expressed in freshly isolated monocytes and is downregulated significantly when monocytes are subjected to differentiation. a similar differentiation-dependent downregulation is observed in normal hepatocytes compared to undifferentiated hepg2 cells. the mrna expression in monocytes is sensitive to lipopolysaccharide and ceramide which both strongly increase dif-2 transcription  while lysophosphatidylcholine results in a weaker upregulation of dif-2 expression. a dif-2 homologous gene has been previously isolated from mouse fibroblasts and was shown to be a serum growth factor-inducible immediate early gene. our results indicate that dif-2 represents a gene which is regulated in differentiation processes and strongly responsive to lipopolysaccharide  ceramide and lysophosphatidylcholine.
571,an argonaute transports sirnas from the cytoplasm to the nucleus.,ribonucleoprotein complexes consisting of argonaute-like proteins and small regulatory rnas function in a wide range of biological processes. many of these small regulatory rnas are predicted to act  at least in part  within the nucleus. we conducted a genetic screen to identify factors essential for rna interference (rnai) in nuclei of caenorhabditis elegans and identified the argonaute protein nrde-3. in the absence of small interfering rnas (sirnas)  nrde-3 resides in the cytoplasm. nrde-3 binds sirnas generated by rna-dependent rna polymerases acting on messenger rna templates in the cytoplasm and redistributes to the nucleus. nuclear redistribution of nrde-3 requires a functional nuclear localization signal  is required for nuclear rnai  and results in nrde-3 association with nuclear-localized nascent transcripts. thus  specific argonaute proteins can transport specific classes of small regulatory rnas to distinct cellular compartments to regulate gene expression.
573,tissue-resident memory t cells: local specialists in immune defence,t cells have crucial roles in protection against infection and cancer. although the trafficking of memory t cells around the body is integral to their capacity to provide immune protection  studies have shown that specialization of some memory t cells into unique tissue-resident subsets gives the host enhanced regional immunity. in recent years  there has been considerable progress in our understanding of tissue-resident t cell development and function  revealing mechanisms for enhanced protective immunity that have the potential to influence rational vaccine design. this review discusses the major advances and the emerging concepts in this field  summarizes what is known about the differentiation and the protective functions of tissue-resident memory t cells in different tissues in the body and highlights key unanswered questions.
575,human dna methylomes at base resolution show widespread epigenomic differences,dna cytosine methylation is a central epigenetic modification that has essential roles in cellular processes including genome regulation  development and disease. here we present the first genome-wide  single-base-resolution maps of methylated cytosines in a mammalian genome  from both human embryonic stem cells and fetal fibroblasts  along with comparative analysis of messenger rna and small rna components of the transcriptome  several histone modifications  and sites of dna–protein interaction for several key regulatory factors. widespread differences were identified in the composition and patterning of cytosine methylation between the two genomes. nearly one-quarter of all methylation identified in embryonic stem cells was in a non-cg context  suggesting that embryonic stem cells may use different methylation mechanisms to affect gene regulation. methylation in non-cg contexts showed enrichment in gene bodies and depletion in protein binding sites and enhancers. non-cg methylation disappeared upon induced differentiation of the embryonic stem cells  and was restored in induced pluripotent stem cells. we identified hundreds of differentially methylated regions proximal to genes involved in pluripotency and differentiation  and widespread reduced methylation levels in fibroblasts associated with lower transcriptional activity. these reference epigenomes provide a foundation for future studies exploring this key epigenetic modification in human disease and development.
577,insulin signaling and dietary restriction differentially influence the decline of learning and memory with age,of all the age-related declines  memory loss is one of the most devastating. while conditions that increase longevity have been identified  the effects of these longevity-promoting factors on learning and memory are unknown. here we show that the c. elegans insulin/igf-1 receptor mutant daf-2 improves memory performance early in adulthood and maintains learning ability better with age but  surprisingly  demonstrates no extension in long-term memory with age. by contrast  eat-2 mutants  a model of dietary restriction (dr)  exhibit impaired long-term memory in young adulthood but maintain this level of memory longer with age. we find that crh-1  the c. elegans homolog of the creb transcription factor  is required for long-term associative memory  but not for learning or short-term memory. the expression of crh-1 declines with age and differs in the longevity mutants  and creb expression and activity correlate with memory performance. our results suggest that specific longevity treatments have acute and long-term effects on cognitive functions that decline with age through their regulation of rate-limiting genes required for learning and memory.
579,midlife and late‐life vascular risk factors and white matter microstructural integrity: the atherosclerosis risk in communities neurocognitive study,background diffusion tensor imaging measures of white matter (wm) microstructural integrity appear to provide earlier indication of wm injury than wm hyperintensities; however  risk factors for poor wm microstructural integrity have not been established. our study quantifies the association between vascular risk factors in midlife and late life with measures of late-life wm microstructural integrity. methods and results we used data from 1851 participants in aric (atherosclerosis risk in communities study) who completed 3-t magnetic resonance imaging  including diffusion tensor imaging  as part of the aric neurocognitive study (aric-ncs). we quantified the association among lipids  glucose  and blood pressure from the baseline aric visit (1987-1989  ages 44-65  midlife) and visit 5 of aric (2011-2013  ages 67-90  late life  concurrent with aric-ncs) with regional and overall wm mean diffusivity and fractional anisotropy obtained at aric visit 5 for aric participants. we also considered whether these associations were independent of or modified by wm hyperintensity volumes. we found that elevated blood pressure in midlife and late life and elevated glucose in midlife  but not late life  were associated with worse late-life wm microstructural integrity. these associations were independent of the degree of wm hyperintensity  and the association between glucose and wm microstructural integrity appeared stronger for those with the least wm hyperintensity. there was little support for an adverse association between lipids and wm microstructural integrity. conclusions hypertension in both midlife and late life and elevated glucose in midlife are related to worse wm microstructural integrity in late life.
581,hyperhomocysteinemia and atherosclerotic vascular disease: pathophysiology  screening  and treatment. off.,hyperhomocysteinemia has recently been identified as an important risk factor for atherosclerotic vascular disease. this article reviews homocysteine metabolism  causes of hyperhomocysteinemia  the pathophysiological findings of this disorder  and epidemiological studies of homocysteine and vascular disease. screening for hyperhomocysteinemia should be considered for patients at high risk for vascular disease or abnormalities of homocysteine metabolism. for primary prevention of vascular disease  treatment of patients with homocysteine levels of 14 micromol/l or higher should be considered. for secondary prevention  treatment of patients with homocysteine levels of 11 micromol/l or higher should be considered. treatment is most conveniently administered as a folic acid supplement (400-1000 microg) and a high-potency multivitamin that contains at least 400 microg of folate. higher doses of folic acid and cyanocobalamin supplements may be required in some patients. until prospective clinical trial data become available  these conservative recommendations provide a safe  effective  and evidence-based approach to the diagnosis  evaluation  and management of patients with hyperhomocysteinemia.
583,genetic variants and non-genetic factors predict circulating vitamin d levels in hispanic and non-hispanic white women: the breast cancer health disparities study.,genome-wide association studies (gwas) have identified common polymorphisms in or near gc  cyp2r1  cyp24a1  and nadsyn1/dhcr7 genes to be associated with circulating levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin d [25(oh)d] in european populations. to replicate these gwas findings  we examined six selected polymorphisms from these regions and their relation with circulating 25(oh)d levels in 1 605 hispanic women (629 u.s. hispanics and 976 mexicans) and 354 non-hispanic white (nhw) women. we also assessed the potential interactions between these variants and known non-genetic predictors of 25(oh)d levels  including body mass index (bmi)  sunlight exposure and vitamin d intake from diet and supplements. the minor alleles of the two gc polymorphisms (rs7041 and rs2282679) were significantly associated with lower 25(oh)d levels in both hispanic and nhw women. the cyp2r1 polymorphism  rs2060793  also was significantly associated with 25(oh)d levels in both groups. we found no significant associations for the polymorphisms in the cyp24a1. in hispanic controls  25(oh)d levels were significantly associated with the rs12785878t and rs1790349g haplotype in the nadsyn1/dhcr7 region. significant interactions between gc rs2282679 and bmi and between rs12785878 and time spent in outdoor activities were observed. these results provide further support for the contribution of common genetic variants to individual variability in circulating 25(oh)d levels. the observed interactions between snps and non-genetic factors warrant confirmation.
585,the hallmarks of aging,aging is characterized by a progressive loss of physiological integrity  leading to impaired function and increased vulnerability to death. this deterioration is the primary risk factor for major human pathologies  including cancer  diabetes  cardiovascular disorders  and neurodegenerative diseases. aging research has experienced an unprecedented advance over recent years  particularly with the discovery that the rate of aging is controlled  at least to some extent  by genetic pathways and biochemical processes conserved in evolution. this review enumerates nine tentative hallmarks that represent common denominators of aging in different organisms  with special emphasis on mammalian aging. these hallmarks are: genomic instability  telomere attrition  epigenetic alterations  loss of proteostasis  deregulated nutrient sensing  mitochondrial dysfunction  cellular senescence  stem cell exhaustion  and altered intercellular communication. a major challenge is to dissect the interconnectedness between the candidate hallmarks and their relative contributions to aging  with the final goal of identifying pharmaceutical targets to improve human health during aging  with minimal side effects.
587,characterisation of antibiotic prescriptions for acute respiratory tract infections in danish general practice: a retrospective registry based cohort study,inappropriate use of antibiotics is contributing to the increasing rates of antimicrobial resistance. several danish guidelines on antibiotic prescribing for acute respiratory tract infections in general practice have been issued to promote rational prescribing of antibiotics  however it is unclear if these recommendations are followed. we aimed to characterise the pattern of antibiotic prescriptions for patients diagnosed with acute respiratory tract infections  by means of electronic prescriptions  labeled with clinical indications  from danish general practice. acute respiratory tract infections accounted for 456 532 antibiotic prescriptions issued between july 2012 and june 2013. pneumonia was the most common indication with 178 354 prescriptions (39%)  followed by acute tonsillitis (21%) and acute otitis media (19%). in total  penicillin v accounted for 58% of all prescriptions  followed by macrolides (18%) and amoxicillin (15%). the use of second-line agents increased with age for all indications  and comprised more than 40% of the prescriptions in patients aged >75 years. women were more often prescribed antibiotics regardless of clinical indication. this is the first danish study to characterise antibiotic prescription patterns for acute respiratory tract infections by data linkage of clinical indications. the findings confirm that penicillin v is the most commonly prescribed antibiotic agent for treatment of patients with an acute respiratory tract infection in danish general practice. however  second-line agents like macrolides and amoxicillin with or without clavulanic acid are overused. strategies to improve the quality of antibiotic prescribing especially for pneumonia  acute otitis media and acute rhinosinusitis are warranted. respiratory tract infections tracking the overuse of antibiotics: better adherence to guidelines for prescribing antibiotics for different respiratory tract infections are warranted in danish general practice. the over-use of antibiotics  particularly so-called 'second-line' agents such as amoxicillin  increases resistance and may lead to a potentially catastrophic scenario where antibiotics are no longer effective. exactly how widespread the over-use of antibiotics is for different infections  however  is not clear. rune aabenhus at the university of copenhagen and co-workers analyzed primary care data regarding antibiotic prescriptions for acute respiratory tract infections including pneumonia and ear infections in denmark. they found that penicillin v-the current recommended first-line drug in scandinavian countries-accounted for 58 per cent of prescriptions  a figure which should be improved. amoxicillin and macrolides were over-prescribed  particularly in elderly patients. the team also call for further analysis of prescriptions given by out-of-hours clinics.
589,clinical and pathologic characteristics of patients with brca-positive and brca-negative breast cancer.,purpose mutations in the brca1 and brca2 genes confer greater risk of developing breast cancer. we determined whether tumor pathologic features and clinical features differ in patients with and without brca mutations. patients and methods tumor pathologic features and clinical characteristics were examined in 491 women with breast cancer who underwent genetic testing for brca mutations between 1997 and 2006. a retrospective review of medical records was conducted to determine clinical characteristics including ethnicity  age and clinical stage at diagnosis  age at parity  number of full-term pregnancies  use of oral contraceptives and hormone replacement therapy  and brca mutation status. tumor pathology was reviewed to determine histologic type  tumor grade  and estrogen receptor  progesterone receptor  and her-2/neu status. results of the 491 patients with identified breast cancers  391 patients were brca negative  and 86 patients were brca positive. triple-negative breast cancer (ie  those with negative estrogen receptor  progesterone receptor  and her-2/neu status) was diagnosed in 57.1% of the brca1-positive patients  23.3% of the brca2-positive patients  and 13.8% of the brca-negative patients. brca1 mutation carriers had higher nuclear grade tumors than the other two groups (p < .001). of the triple-negative cancer patients  brca2 mutation carriers were older when diagnosed than brca1 mutation carriers and noncarriers (p < .01). conclusion these results suggest that tumors associated with brca1 mutations may be divided into two distinct groups  triple-negative and non-triple-negative groups. future studies should seek to determine whether patients with brca1 mutations and triple-negative breast cancer respond to treatment better than brca-negative patients with similar tumor pathology.
591,genetic analysis of human obesity in an italian sample.,an analysis of the genetic factors in obesity has been carried out on a sample of nuclear families from aosta (n. italy). the families consisted of the parents and sibs of all elementary school children considered to be obese during a preliminary screening and a similar sample of non-obese children and their nuclear families. the numbers of such families were 67 and 112  respectively. several tests were applied in order to examine the genetic contribution to obesity  and in particular to investigate the presence of a dominant major gene. our conclusions are that genetic factors are certainly present. several analyses suggest the presence of a dominant major gene with weak effect.
593,incidence and risk of central nervous system metastases as site of first recurrence in patients with her2-positive breast cancer treated with adjuvant trastuzumab.,background central nervous system (cns) disease as the site of first relapse after exposure to adjuvant trastuzumab has been reported. we carried out comprehensive meta-analysis to determine the risk of cns metastases as the first site of recurrence in patients with her2-positive breast cancer who received adjuvant trastuzumab. methods eligible studies include randomized trials of adjuvant trastuzumab administered for 1 year to patients with her2-positive breast cancer who reported cns metastases as first site of disease recurrence. statistical analyses were conducted to calculate the incidence  relative risk (rr)  and 95% confidence intervals (cis) using fixed-effects inverse variance and random-effects models. results a total of 9020 patients were included. the incidence of cns metastases as first site of disease recurrence in her2-positive patients receiving adjuvant trastuzumab was 2.56% (95% ci 2.07% to 3.01%) compared with 1.94% (95% ci 1.54% to 2.38%) in her2-positive patients who did not receive adjuvant trastuzumab. the rr of the cns as first site of relapse in trastuzumab-treated patients was 1.35 (95% ci 1.02-1.78  p = 0.038) compared with control arms without trastuzumab therapy. the ratio of cns metastases to total number of recurrence events was 16.94% (95% ci 10.85% to 24.07%) and 8.33% (95% ci 6.49% to 10.86%) for the trastuzumab-treated and control groups  respectively. no statistically significant differences were found based on trastuzumab schedule or median follow-up time. no evidence of publication bias was observed. conclusions adjuvant trastuzumab is associated with a significant increased risk of cns metastases as the site of first recurrence in her2-positive breast cancer patients.
595,functions of dna methylation: islands  start sites  gene bodies and beyond,dna methylation is frequently described as a 'silencing' epigenetic mark  and indeed this function of 5-methylcytosine was originally proposed in the 1970s. now  thanks to improved genome-scale mapping of methylation  we can evaluate dna methylation in different genomic contexts: transcriptional start sites with or without cpg islands  in gene bodies  at regulatory elements and at repeat sequences. the emerging picture is that the function of dna methylation seems to vary with context  and the relationship between dna methylation and transcription is more nuanced than we realized at first. improving our understanding of the functions of dna methylation is necessary for interpreting changes in this mark that are observed in diseases such as cancer.
597,pioglitazone use and risk of bladder cancer and other common cancers in persons with diabetes.,importance studies suggest pioglitazone use may increase risk of cancers. objective to examine whether pioglitazone use for diabetes is associated with risk of bladder and 10 additional cancers. design  setting  and participants cohort and nested case-control analyses among persons with diabetes. a bladder cancer cohort followed 193 099 persons aged 40 years or older in 1997-2002 until december 2012; 464 case patients and 464 matched controls were surveyed about additional confounders. a cohort analysis of 10 additional cancers included 236 507 persons aged 40 years or older in 1997-2005 and followed until june 2012. cohorts were from kaiser permanente northern california. exposures ever use  duration  cumulative dose  and time since initiation of pioglitazone as time dependent. main outcomes and measures incident cancer  including bladder  prostate  female breast  lung/bronchus  endometrial  colon  non-hodgkin lymphoma  pancreas  kidney/renal pelvis  rectum  and melanoma. results among 193 099 persons in the bladder cancer cohort  34 181 (18%) received pioglitazone (median duration  2.8 years; range  0.2-13.2 years) and 1261 had incident bladder cancer. crude incidences of bladder cancer in pioglitazone users and nonusers were 89.8 and 75.9 per 100 000 person-years  respectively. ever use of pioglitazone was not associated with bladder cancer risk (adjusted hazard ratio [hr]  1.06; 95% ci  0.89-1.26). results were similar in case-control analyses (pioglitazone use: 19.6% among case patients and 17.5% among controls; adjusted odds ratio  1.18; 95% ci  0.78-1.80). in adjusted analyses  there was no association with 8 of the 10 additional cancers; ever use of pioglitazone was associated with increased risk of prostate cancer (hr  1.13; 95% ci  1.02-1.26) and pancreatic cancer (hr  1.41; 95% ci  1.16-1.71). crude incidences of prostate and pancreatic cancer in pioglitazone users vs nonusers were 453.3 vs 449.3 and 81.1 vs 48.4 per 100 000 person-years  respectively. no clear patterns of risk for any cancer were observed for time since initiation  duration  or dose. conclusions and relevance pioglitazone use was not associated with a statistically significant increased risk of bladder cancer  although an increased risk  as previously observed  could not be excluded. the increased prostate and pancreatic cancer risks associated with ever use of pioglitazone merit further investigation to assess whether they are causal or are due to chance  residual confounding  or reverse causality.
599,multipoint kras oncogene mutations potentially indicate mucinous carcinoma on the entire spectrum of mucinous ovarian neoplasms,kras mutation is a common phenomenon in many human neoplasms. we aimed to assess the kras mutational status along the histological continuum from normal ovaries to the development of benign  borderline and malignant ovarian mucinous neoplasms. we analyzed 41 cases of malignant  10 cases of borderline  7 cases of benign mucinous ovarian tumors and 7 cases of normal ovarian tissue. the prevalence of kras mutations in the normal ovary was 0.00% (n=0/7)  while the prevalence in benign  borderline and malignant mucinous neoplasms was 57.14% (n=4/7)  90.00% (n=9/10) and 75.61% (n=31/41)  respectively. multiple kras mutations were detected in 6 cases of mucinous carcinoma  including 5 double mutations with g13d/v14i (n=1)  g12v/g13s (n=1)  g12d/g13s (n=3) and one triple mutation with a11v/g13n/v14i (n=1). we identified six cases with 3 novel kras mutations not previously described in the cosmic database  which included a11v (n=3) and v14i (n=2) in mucinous carcinomas  and a11t (n=1) in a mucinous borderline tumor. in conclusion  kras mutation appears to be one of the imperative events in the ovarian mucinous adenoma-borderline tumor-carcinoma sequence  as increased numbers of kras mutations have been shown to be the strongest predictor of unequivocal malignancy in ovarian mucinous neoplasms.
601,il6 derived from cancer-associated fibroblasts promotes chemoresistance via cxcr7 in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma,various factors and cellular components in the tumor microenvironment are key drivers associated with drug resistance in many cancers. here  we analyzed the factors and molecular mechanisms involved in chemoresistance in patients with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (escc). we found that interleukin 6 (il6) derived mainly from cancer-associated fibroblasts played the most important role in chemoresistance by upregulating c-x-c motif chemokine receptor 7 (cxcr7) expression through signal transducer and activator of transcription 3/nuclear factor-κb pathway. cxcr7 knockdown resulted in the inhibition of il6-induced proliferation and chemoresistance. in addition  cxcr7 silencing significantly decreased gene expression associated with stemness  chemoresistance and epithelial–mesenchymal transition and suppressed the proliferation ability of escc cells in three-dimensional culture systems and angiogenesis assay. in clinical samples  escc patients with high expression of cxcr7 and il6 presented a significantly worse overall survival and progression-free survival upon receiving cisplatin after operation. these results suggest that the il6–cxcr7 axis may provide a promising target for the treatment of escc.
603,smc complexes differentially compact mitotic chromosomes according to genomic context,structural maintenance of chromosomes (smc) protein complexes are key determinants of chromosome conformation. using hi-c and polymer modelling  we study how cohesin and condensin  two deeply conserved smc complexes  organize chromosomes in the budding yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae. the canonical role of cohesin is to co-align sister chromatids  while condensin generally compacts mitotic chromosomes. we find strikingly different roles for the two complexes in budding yeast mitosis. first  cohesin is responsible for compacting mitotic chromosome arms  independently of sister chromatid cohesion. polymer simulations demonstrate that this role can be fully accounted for through cis-looping of chromatin. second  condensin is generally dispensable for compaction along chromosome arms. instead  it plays a targeted role compacting the rdna proximal regions and promoting resolution of peri-centromeric regions. our results argue that the conserved mechanism of smc complexes is to form chromatin loops and that distinct smc-dependent looping activities are selectively deployed to appropriately compact chromosomes.
605,treatment of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: role of ampk.,nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (nafld) is a growing worldwide epidemic and an important risk factor for the development of insulin resistance  type 2 diabetes  nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (nash)  and hepatic cellular carcinoma (hcc). despite the prevalence of nafld  lifestyle interventions involving exercise and weight loss are the only accepted treatments for this disease. over the last decade  numerous experimental compounds have been shown to improve nafld in preclinical animal models  and many of these therapeutics have been shown to increase the activity of the cellular energy sensor amp-activated protein kinase (ampk). because ampk activity is reduced by inflammation  obesity  and diabetes  increasing ampk activity has been viewed as a viable therapeutic strategy to improve nafld. in this review  we propose three primary mechanisms by which ampk activation may improve nafld. in addition  we examine the mechanisms by which ampk is activated. finally  we identify 27 studies that have used ampk activators to reduce nafld. future considerations for studies examining the relationship between ampk and nafld are highlighted.
607,effect of activated charcoal hemoperfusion on renal function in patients with paraquat poisoning.,the present study retrospectively analyzed 19 patients diagnosed with paraquat (pq) poisoning with the aim to investigate the effect of activated charcoal hemoperfusion on renal function and pq elimination. the results indicated that 7 patients died and 12 survived. non-oliguric renal failure occurred in all of the 7 patients who died. among the 12 surviving patients  10 had normal renal function and 2 developed non-oliguric renal failure. there was a linear correlation between plasma and urine paraquat concentration prior to and during activated charcoal hemoperfusion. the equation parameters together with the correlation coefficient on admission were as follows: y=0.5820+1.7348x (r2=0.678; f=35.768; p<0.0001). the equation parameters together with the correlation coefficient were as follows during activated charcoal hemoperfusion: y=0.6827+1.2649x (r2=0.626; f=50.308; p<0.0001). therefore  it was concluded that in patients with normal renal function  the elimination kinetics of pq by the kidneys were only associated with the plasma pq concentration. activated charcoal hemoperfusion had little effect on avoiding acute kidney injury in patients with severe pq poisoning.
609,motion magnification,we present motion magnification  a technique that acts like a microscope for visual motion. it can amplify subtle motions in a video sequence  allowing for visualization of deformations that would otherwise be invisible. to achieve motion magnification  we need to accurately measure visual motions  and group the pixels to be modified. after an initial image registration step  we measure motion by a robust analysis of feature point trajectories  and segment pixels based on similarity of position  color  and motion. a novel measure of motion similarity groups even very small motions according to correlation over time  which often relates to physical cause. an outlier mask marks observations not explained by our layered motion model  and those pixels are simply reproduced on the output from the original registered observations. the motion of any selected layer may be magnified by a user-specified amount; texture synthesis fills-in unseen "holes" revealed by the amplified motions. the resulting motion-magnified images can reveal or emphasize small motions in the original sequence  as we demonstrate with deformations in load-bearing structures  subtle motions or balancing corrections of people  and "rigid" structures bending under hand pressure.
611,integrative genomics viewer (igv): high-performance genomics data visualization and exploration,data visualization is an essential component of genomic data analysis. however  the size and diversity of the data sets produced by today's sequencing and array-based profiling methods present major challenges to visualization tools. the integrative genomics viewer (igv) is a high-performance viewer that efficiently handles large heterogeneous data sets  while providing a smooth and intuitive user experience at all levels of genome resolution. a key characteristic of igv is its focus on the integrative nature of genomic studies  with support for both array-based and next-generation sequencing data  and the integration of clinical and phenotypic data. although igv is often used to view genomic data from public sources  its primary emphasis is to support researchers who wish to visualize and explore their own data sets or those from colleagues. to that end  igv supports flexible loading of local and remote data sets  and is optimized to provide high-performance data visualization and exploration on standard desktop systems. igv is freely available for download from http://www.broadinstitute.org/igv  under a gnu lgpl open-source license.
613,long‐term follow‐up of cd19 car therapy in acute lymphoblastic leukemia,background cd19‐specific chimeric antigen receptor (car) t cells induce high rates of initial response among patients with relapsed b‐cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (all) and long‐term remissions in a subgroup of patients. methods we conducted a phase 1 trial involving adults with relapsed b‐cell all who received an infusion of autologous t cells expressing the 19‐28z car at the memorial sloan kettering cancer center (mskcc). safety and long‐term outcomes were assessed  as were their associations with demographic  clinical  and disease characteristics. results a total of 53 adults received 19‐28z car t cells that were manufactured at mskcc. after infusion  severe cytokine release syndrome occurred in 14 of 53 patients (26%; 95% confidence interval [ci]  15 to 40); 1 patient died. complete remission was observed in 83% of the patients. at a median follow‐up of 29 months (range  1 to 65)  the median event‐free survival was 6.1 months (95% ci  5.0 to 11.5)  and the median overall survival was 12.9 months (95% ci  8.7 to 23.4). patients with a low disease burden (<5% bone marrow blasts) before treatment had markedly enhanced remission duration and survival  with a median event‐free survival of 10.6 months (95% ci  5.9 to not reached) and a median overall survival of 20.1 months (95% ci  8.7 to not reached). patients with a higher burden of disease (≥5% bone marrow blasts or extramedullary disease) had a greater incidence of the cytokine release syndrome and neurotoxic events and shorter long‐term survival than did patients with a low disease burden. conclusions in the entire cohort  the median overall survival was 12.9 months. among patients with a low disease burden  the median overall survival was 20.1 months and was accompanied by a markedly lower incidence of the cytokine release syndrome and neurotoxic events after 19‐28z car t‐cell infusion than was observed among patients with a higher disease burden. (funded by the commonwealth foundation for cancer research and others; clinicaltrials.gov number  nct01044069.)
615,metabolism strikes back: metabolic flux regulates cell signaling.,mammalian cells depend on growth factor signaling to take up nutrients; however  coordination of glucose and glutamine uptake has been a mystery. in this issue of genes & development  wellen and colleagues (pp. 2784-2799) show that glucose flux through the hexosamine biosynthesis pathway regulates growth factor receptor glycosylation and enables glutamine consumption. this mechanism ensures that cells do not engage in anabolic metabolism when nutrients are limiting  and highlights how substrate availability for protein modifications can modulate cell signaling.
617,inflammatory signaling in human tuberculosis granulomas is spatially organized,granulomas are the pathological hallmark of tuberculosis (tb). however  their function and mechanisms of formation remain poorly understood. to understand the role of granulomas in tb  we analyzed the proteomes of granulomas from subjects with tuberculosis in an unbiased manner. using laser-capture microdissection  mass spectrometry and confocal microscopy  we generated detailed molecular maps of human granulomas. we found that the centers of granulomas have a pro-inflammatory environment that is characterized by the presence of antimicrobial peptides  reactive oxygen species and pro-inflammatory eicosanoids. conversely  the tissue surrounding the caseum has a comparatively anti-inflammatory signature. these findings are consistent across a set of six human subjects and in rabbits. although the balance between systemic pro- and anti-inflammatory signals is crucial to tb disease outcome  here we find that these signals are physically segregated within each granuloma. from the protein and lipid snapshots of human and rabbit lesions analyzed here  we hypothesize that the pathologic response to tb is shaped by the precise anatomical localization of these inflammatory pathways during the development of the granuloma.
619,developmental analysis of bone marrow neutrophils reveals populations specialized in expansion  trafficking  and effector functions,summary neutrophils are specialized innate cells that require constant replenishment from proliferative bone marrow (bm) precursors as a result of their short half‐life. although it is established that neutrophils are derived from the granulocyte‐macrophage progenitor (gmp)  the differentiation pathways from gmp to functional mature neutrophils are poorly defined. using mass cytometry (cytof) and cell‐cycle‐based analysis  we identified three neutrophil subsets within the bm: a committed proliferative neutrophil precursor (preneu) which differentiates into non‐proliferating immature neutrophils and mature neutrophils. transcriptomic profiling and functional analysis revealed that preneu require the c/ebp&egr; transcription factor for their generation from the gmp  and their proliferative program is substituted by a gain of migratory and effector function as they mature. preneus expand under microbial and tumoral stress  and immature neutrophils are recruited to the periphery of tumor‐bearing mice. in summary  our study identifies specialized bm granulocytic populations that ensure supply under homeostasis and stress responses. graphical abstract figure. no caption available. highlightsproliferation activity identifies committed neutrophil precursor in mice and humansneutrophil subsets possess distinct transcriptomic and functional signaturesdefect in neutrophil development leads to impaired neutrophil‐mediated responsesincreased circulating immature neutrophils are associated with cancer progression &na; the neutrophil differentiation pathway is poorly defined. evrard et. al. demonstrate a workflow of characterizing bone marrow neutrophil subsets on the basis of their proliferative capacity and molecular signatures and thereby define the developmental trajectory and functional properties of neutrophils.
621,formins at the junction.,the actin cytoskeleton and adhesion junctions are physically and functionally coupled at the cell-cell interface between epithelial cells. the actin regulatory complex arp2/3 has an established role in the turnover of junctional actin; however  the role of formins  the largest group of actin regulators  is less clear. formins dynamically shape the actin cytoskeleton and have various functions within cells. in this review we describe recent progress on how formins regulate actin dynamics at cell-cell contacts and highlight formin functions during polarized protein traffic necessary for epithelialization.
623,high-resolution mapping of open chromatin in the rice genome.,gene expression is controlled by the complex interaction of transcription factors binding to promoters and other regulatory dna elements. one common characteristic of the genomic regions associated with regulatory proteins is a pronounced sensitivity to dnase i digestion. we generated genome-wide high-resolution maps of dnase i hypersensitive (dh) sites from both seedling and callus tissues of rice (oryza sativa). approximately 25% of the dh sites from both tissues were found in putative promoters  indicating that the vast majority of the gene regulatory elements in rice are not located in promoter regions. we found 58% more dh sites in the callus than in the seedling. for dh sites detected in both the seedling and callus  31% displayed significantly different levels of dnase i sensitivity within the two tissues. genes that are differentially expressed in the seedling and callus were frequently associated with dh sites in both tissues. the dna sequences contained within the dh sites were hypomethylated  consistent with what is known about active gene regulatory elements. interestingly  tissue-specific dh sites located in the promoters showed a higher level of dna methylation than the average dna methylation level of all the dh sites located in the promoters. a distinct elevation of h3k27me3 was associated with intergenic dh sites. these results suggest that epigenetic modifications play a role in the dynamic changes of the numbers and dnase i sensitivity of dh sites during development.
625,breast cancer clusters in the northeast united states: a geographic analysis.,high breast cancer mortality rates have been reported in the northeastern part of the united states  with recent attention focused on long island  new york. in this study  the authors investigate whether the high breast cancer mortality is evenly spread over the northeast  in the sense that any observed clusters of deaths can be explained by chance alone  or whether there are clusters of statistical significance. demographic data and age-specific breast cancer mortality rates for women were obtained for all 244 counties in 11 northeastern states and for the district of columbia for 1988-1992. a recently developed spatial scan statistic is used  which searches for clusters of cases without specifying their size or location ahead of time  and which tests for their statistical significance while adjusting for the multiple testing inherent in such a procedure. the basic analysis is adjusted for age  with further analyses examining how the results are affected by incorporating race  urbanicity  and parity as confounding variables. there is a statistically significant and geographically broad cluster of breast cancer deaths in the new york city-philadelphia  pennsylvania  metropolitan area (p = 0.0001)  which has a 7.4% higher mortality rate than the rest of the northeast. the cluster remains significant when race  urbanicity  and/or parity are included as confounding variables. four smaller subclusters within this area are also significant on their own strength: philadelphia with suburbs (p = 0.0001)  long island (p = 0.0001)  central new jersey (p = 0.0001)  and northeastern new jersey (p = 0.0001). the elevated breast cancer mortality on long island might be viewed less as a unique local phenomenon and more as part of a more general situation involving large parts of the new york city-philadelphia metropolitan area. the several known and hypothesized risk factors for which we could not adjust and that may explain the detected cluster are most notably age at first birth  age at menarche  age at menopause  breastfeeding  genetic mutations  and environmental factors.
627,tumor-specific th17-polarized cells eradicate large established melanoma.,cd4+ t cells can differentiate into multiple effector subsets  but the potential roles of these subsets in anti-tumor immunity have not been fully explored. seeking to study the impact of cd4+ t cell polarization on tumor rejection in a model mimicking human disease  we generated a new mhc class ii-restricted  t-cell receptor (tcr) transgenic mouse model in which cd4+ t cells recognize a novel epitope in tyrosinase-related protein 1 (trp-1)  an antigen expressed by normal melanocytes and b16 murine melanoma. cells could be robustly polarized into th0  th1  and th17 subtypes in vitro  as evidenced by cytokine  chemokine  and adhesion molecule profiles and by surface markers  suggesting the potential for differential effector function in vivo. contrary to the current view that th1 cells are most important in tumor rejection  we found that th17-polarized cells better mediated destruction of advanced b16 melanoma. their therapeutic effect was critically dependent on interferon-gamma (ifn-gamma) production  whereas depletion of interleukin (il)-17a and il-23 had little impact. taken together  these data indicate that the appropriate in vitro polarization of effector cd4+ t cells is decisive for successful tumor eradication. this principle should be considered in designing clinical trials involving adoptive transfer-based immunotherapy of human malignancies.
629,mitochondrial iron chelation ameliorates cigarette-smoke induced bronchitis and emphysema in mice,chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd) is linked to both cigarette smoking and genetic determinants. we have previously identified iron-responsive element-binding protein 2 (irp2) as an important copd susceptibility gene and have shown that irp2 protein is increased in the lungs of individuals with copd. here we demonstrate that mice deficient in irp2 were protected from cigarette smoke (cs)-induced experimental copd. by integrating rna immunoprecipitation followed by sequencing (rip-seq)  rna sequencing (rna-seq)  and gene expression and functional enrichment clustering analysis  we identified irp2 as a regulator of mitochondrial function in the lungs of mice. irp2 increased mitochondrial iron loading and levels of cytochrome c oxidase (cox)  which led to mitochondrial dysfunction and subsequent experimental copd. frataxin-deficient mice  which had higher mitochondrial iron loading  showed impaired airway mucociliary clearance (mcc) and higher pulmonary inflammation at baseline  whereas mice deficient in the synthesis of cytochrome c oxidase  which have reduced cox  were protected from cs-induced pulmonary inflammation and impairment of mcc. mice treated with a mitochondrial iron chelator or mice fed a low-iron diet were protected from cs-induced copd. mitochondrial iron chelation also alleviated cs-induced impairment of mcc  cs-induced pulmonary inflammation and cs-associated lung injury in mice with established copd  suggesting a critical functional role and potential therapeutic intervention for the mitochondrial-iron axis in copd.
631,phenotypic deficits in the hiv-1 envelope are associated with the maturation of a v2-directed broadly neutralizing antibody lineage,broadly neutralizing antibodies (bnabs) to hiv-1 can evolve after years of an iterative process of virus escape and antibody adaptation that hiv-1 vaccine design seeks to mimic. to enable this  properties that render hiv-1 envelopes (env) capable of eliciting bnab responses need to be defined. here  we followed the evolution of the v2 apex directed bnab lineage vrc26 in the hiv-1 subtype c superinfected donor cap256 to investigate the phenotypic changes of the virus populations circulating before and during the early phases of bnab induction. longitudinal viruses that evolved from the vrc26-resistant primary infecting (pi) virus  the vrc26-sensitive superinfecting (su) virus and ensuing pi-su recombinants revealed substantial phenotypic changes in env  with a switch in env properties coinciding with early resistance to vrc26. decreased sensitivity of su-like viruses to vrc26 was linked with reduced infectivity  altered entry kinetics and lower sensitivity to neutralization after cd4 attachment. vrc26 maintained neutralization activity against cell-associated cap256 virus  indicating that escape through the cell-cell transmission route is not a dominant escape pathway. reduced fitness of the early escape variants and sustained sensitivity in cell-cell transmission are both features that limit virus replication  thereby impeding rapid escape. this supports a scenario where vrc26 allowed only partial viral escape for a prolonged period  possibly increasing the time window for bnab maturation. collectively  our data highlight the phenotypic plasticity of the hiv-1 env in evading bnab pressure and the need to consider phenotypic traits when selecting and designing env immunogens. combinations of env variants with differential phenotypic patterns and bnab sensitivity  as we describe here for cap256  may maximize the potential for inducing bnab responses by vaccination.
633,postmarket safety events among novel therapeutics approved by the us food and drug administration between 2001 and 2010,importance postmarket safety events of novel pharmaceuticals and biologics occur when new safety risks are identified after initial regulatory approval of these therapeutics. these safety events can change how novel therapeutics are used in clinical practice and inform patient and clinician decision making. objectives to characterize the frequency of postmarket safety events among novel therapeutics approved by the us food and drug administration (fda)  and to examine whether any novel therapeutic characteristics known at the time of fda approval were associated with increased risk. design and setting cohort study of all novel therapeutics approved by the fda between january 1  2001  and december 31  2010  followed up through february 28  2017. exposures novel therapeutic characteristics known at the time of fda approval  including drug class  therapeutic area  priority review  accelerated approval  orphan status  near–regulatory deadline approval  and regulatory review time. main outcomes and measures a composite of (1) withdrawals due to safety concerns  (2) fda issuance of incremental boxed warnings added in the postmarket period  and (3) fda issuance of safety communications. results from 2001 through 2010  the fda approved 222 novel therapeutics (183 pharmaceuticals and 39 biologics). there were 123 new postmarket safety events (3 withdrawals  61 boxed warnings  and 59 safety communications) during a median follow-up period of 11.7 years (interquartile range [iqr]  8.7-13.8 years)  affecting 71 (32.0%) of the novel therapeutics. the median time from approval to first postmarket safety event was 4.2 years (iqr  2.5-6.0 years)  and the proportion of novel therapeutics affected by a postmarket safety event at 10 years was 30.8% (95% ci  25.1%-37.5%). in multivariable analysis  postmarket safety events were statistically significantly more frequent among biologics (incidence rate ratio [irr] = 1.93; 95% ci  1.06-3.52; p = .03)  therapeutics indicated for the treatment of psychiatric disease (irr = 3.78; 95% ci  1.77-8.06; p < .001)  those receiving accelerated approval (irr = 2.20; 95% ci  1.15-4.21; p = .02)  and those with near–regulatory deadline approval (irr = 1.90; 95% ci  1.19-3.05; p = .008); events were statistically significantly less frequent among those with regulatory review times less than 200 days (irr = 0.46; 95% ci  0.24-0.87; p = .02). conclusions and relevance among 222 novel therapeutics approved by the fda from 2001 through 2010  32% were affected by a postmarket safety event. biologics  psychiatric therapeutics  and accelerated and near–regulatory deadline approval were statistically significantly associated with higher rates of events  highlighting the need for continuous monitoring of the safety of novel therapeutics throughout their life cycle.
635,large intergenic non-coding rna-ror modulates reprogramming of human induced pluripotent stem cells,the conversion of lineage-committed cells to induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs) by reprogramming is accompanied by a global remodeling of the epigenome  resulting in altered patterns of gene expression. here we characterize the transcriptional reorganization of large intergenic non-coding rnas (lincrnas) that occurs upon derivation of human ipscs and identify numerous lincrnas whose expression is linked to pluripotency. among these  we defined ten lincrnas whose expression was elevated in ipscs compared with embryonic stem cells  suggesting that their activation may promote the emergence of ipscs. supporting this  our results indicate that these lincrnas are direct targets of key pluripotency transcription factors. using loss-of-function and gain-of-function approaches  we found that one such lincrna (lincrna-ror) modulates reprogramming  thus providing a first demonstration for critical functions of lincrnas in the derivation of pluripotent stem cells.
637,up-regulated nrip2 in colorectal cancer initiating cells modulates the wnt pathway by targeting rorβ,background colorectal cancer remains one of the most common malignant tumors worldwide. colorectal cancer initiating cells (ccics) are a small subpopulation responsible for malignant behaviors of colorectal cancer. aberrant activation of the wnt pathways regulates the self-renewal of ccic. however  the underlying mechanism(s) remain poorly understood. methods via retroviral library screening  we identified nuclear receptor-interacting protein 2 (nrip2) as a novel interactor of the wnt pathway from enriched colorectal cancer colosphere cells. the expression levels of nrip2 and retinoic acid-related orphan receptor β (rorβ) were further examined by fish  qrt-pcr  ihc and western blot. nrip2 overexpressed and knockdown colorectal cancer cells were produced to study the role of nrip2 in wnt pathway. we also verified the binding between nrip2 and rorβ and investigated the effect of rorβ on ccics both in vitro and in vivo. genechip-scanning speculated downstream target hbp1. western blot  chip and luciferase reporter were carried to investigate the interaction between nrip2  rorβ  and hbp1. results nrip2 was significantly up-regulated in ccics from both cell lines and primary colorectal cancer tissues. reinforced expression of nrip2 increased wnt activity  while silencing of nrip2 attenuated wnt activity. the transcription factor rorβ was a key target through which nrip2 regulated wnt pathway activity. rorβ was a transcriptional enhancer of inhibitor hbp1 of the wnt pathway. nrip2 prevented rorβ to bind with downstream hbp1 promoter regions and reduced the transcription of hbp1. this  in turn  attenuated the hbp1-dependent inhibition of tcf4-mediated transcription. conclusions nrip2 is a novel interactor of the wnt pathway in colorectal cancer initiating cells. interactions between nrip2  rorβ  and hbp1 mediate a new mechanism for ccic self-renewal via the wnt activity.
639,misunderstandings in prescribing decisions in general practice: qualitative study.,objectives to identify and describe misunderstandings between patients and doctors associated with prescribing decisions in general practice. design qualitative study. setting 20 general practices in the west midlands and south east england. participants 20 general practitioners and 35 consulting patients. main outcome measures misunderstandings between patients and doctors that have potential or actual adverse consequences for taking medicine. results 14 categories of misunderstanding were identified relating to patient information unknown to the doctor  doctor information unknown to the patient  conflicting information  disagreement about attribution of side effects  failure of communication about doctor's decision  and relationship factors. all the misunderstandings were associated with lack of patients' participation in the consultation in terms of the voicing of expectations and preferences or the voicing of responses to doctors' decisions and actions. they were all associated with potential or actual adverse outcomes such as non-adherence to treatment. many were based on inaccurate guesses and assumptions. in particular doctors seemed unaware of the relevance of patients' ideas about medicines for successful prescribing. conclusions patients' participation in the consultation and the adverse consequences of lack of participation are important. the authors are developing an educational intervention that builds on these findings.
641,therapeutic equivalence of alendronate 70 mg once-weekly and alendronate 10 mg daily in the treatment of osteoporosis. alendronate once-weekly study group.,dosing convenience is a key element in the effective management of any chronic disease  and is particularly important in the long-term management of osteoporosis. less frequent dosing with any medication may enhance compliance  thereby maximizing the effectiveness of therapy. animal data support the rationale that once-weekly dosing with alendronate 70 mg (7 times the daily oral treatment dose) could provide similar efficacy to daily dosing with alendronate 10 mg due to its long duration of effect in bone. in addition  dog studies suggest that the potential for esophageal irritation  observed with daily oral bisphosphonates  may be substantially reduced with once-weekly dosing. this dosing regimen would provide patients with increased convenience and would be likely to enhance patient compliance. we compared the efficacy and safety of treatment with oral once-weekly alendronate 70 mg (n=519)  twice-weekly alendronate 35 mg (n=369)  and daily alendronate 10 mg (n=370) in a one-year  double-blind  multicenter study of postmenopausal women (ages 42 to 95) with osteoporosis (bone mineral density [bmd] of either lumbar spine or femoral neck at least 2.5 sds below peak premenopausal mean  or prior vertebral or hip fracture). the primary efficacy endpoint was the comparability of increases in lumbar spine bmd  using strict pre-defined equivalence criteria. secondary endpoints included changes in bmd at the hip and total body and rate of bone turnover  as assessed by biochemical markers. both of the new regimens fully satisfied the equivalence criteria relative to daily therapy. mean increases in lumbar spine bmd at 12 months were: 5.1% (95% ci 4.8  5.4) in the 70 mg once-weekly group  5.2% (4.9  5.6) in the 35 mg twice-weekly group  and 5.4% (5.0  5.8) in the 10 mg daily treatment group. increases in bmd at the total hip  femoral neck  trochanter  and total body were similar for the three dosing regimens. all three treatment groups similarly reduced biochemical markers of bone resorption (urinary n-telopeptides of type i collagen) and bone formation (serum bone-specific alkaline phosphatase) into the middle of the premenopausal reference range. all treatment regimens were well tolerated with a similar incidence of upper gi adverse experiences. there were fewer serious upper gi adverse experiences and a trend toward a lower incidence of esophageal events in the once-weekly dosing group compared to the daily dosing group. these data are consistent with preclinical animal models  and suggest that once-weekly dosing has the potential for improved upper gi tolerability. clinical fractures  captured as adverse experiences  were similar among the groups. we conclude that the alendronate 70 mg once-weekly dosing regimen will provide patients with a more convenient  therapeutically equivalent alternative to daily dosing  and may enhance compliance and long-term persistence with therapy.
643,expandable cardiovascular progenitor cells reprogrammed from fibroblasts.,stem cell-based approaches to cardiac regeneration are increasingly viable strategies for treating heart failure. generating abundant and functional autologous cells for transplantation in such a setting  however  remains a significant challenge. here  we isolated a cell population with extensive proliferation capacity and restricted cardiovascular differentiation potentials during cardiac transdifferentiation of mouse fibroblasts. these induced expandable cardiovascular progenitor cells (iecpcs) proliferated extensively for more than 18 passages in chemically defined conditions  with 10(5) starting fibroblasts robustly producing 10(16) iecpcs. iecpcs expressed cardiac signature genes and readily differentiated into functional cardiomyocytes (cms)  endothelial cells (ecs)  and smooth muscle cells (smcs) in vitro  even after long-term expansion. when transplanted into mouse hearts following myocardial infarction  iecpcs spontaneously differentiated into cms  ecs  and smcs and improved cardiac function for up to 12 weeks after transplantation. thus  iecpcs are a powerful system to study cardiovascular specification and provide strategies for regenerative medicine in the heart.
645,tenomodulin promotes human adipocyte differentiation and beneficial visceral adipose tissue expansion.,proper regulation of energy storage in adipose tissue is crucial for maintaining insulin sensitivity and molecules contributing to this process have not been fully revealed. here we show that type ii transmembrane protein tenomodulin (tnmd) is upregulated in adipose tissue of insulin-resistant versus insulin-sensitive individuals  who were matched for body mass index (bmi). tnmd expression increases in human preadipocytes during differentiation  whereas silencing tnmd blocks adipogenesis. upon high-fat diet feeding  transgenic mice overexpressing tnmd develop increased epididymal white adipose tissue (ewat) mass  and preadipocytes derived from tnmd transgenic mice display greater proliferation  consistent with elevated adipogenesis. in tnmd transgenic mice  lipogenic genes are upregulated in ewat  as is ucp1 in brown fat  while liver triglyceride accumulation is attenuated. despite expanded ewat  transgenic animals display improved systemic insulin sensitivity  decreased collagen deposition and inflammation in ewat  and increased insulin stimulation of akt phosphorylation. our data suggest that tnmd acts as a protective factor in visceral adipose tissue to alleviate insulin resistance in obesity.
647,effect of oral semaglutide compared with placebo and subcutaneous semaglutide on glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes: a randomized clinical trial,importance glucagon-like peptide-1 (glp-1) receptor agonists are effective therapies for the treatment of type 2 diabetes and are all currently available as an injection. objectives to compare the effects of oral semaglutide with placebo (primary) and open-label subcutaneous semaglutide (secondary) on glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes. design  setting  and patients phase 2  randomized  parallel-group  dosage-finding  26-week trial with 5-week follow-up at 100 sites (hospital clinics  general practices  and clinical research centers) in 14 countries conducted between december 2013 and december 2014. of 1106 participants assessed  632 with type 2 diabetes and insufficient glycemic control using diet and exercise alone or a stable dose of metformin were randomized. randomization was stratified by metformin use. interventions once-daily oral semaglutide of 2.5 mg (n = 70)  5 mg (n = 70)  10 mg (n = 70)  20 mg (n = 70)  40-mg 4-week dose escalation (standard escalation; n = 71)  40-mg 8-week dose escalation (slow escalation; n = 70)  40-mg 2-week dose escalation (fast escalation  n = 70)  oral placebo (n = 71; double-blind) or once-weekly subcutaneous semaglutide of 1.0 mg (n = 70) for 26 weeks. main outcomes and measures the primary end point was change in hemoglobing a1c (hba1c) from baseline to week 26. secondary end points included change from baseline in body weight and adverse events. results baseline characteristics were comparable across treatment groups. of the 632 randomized patients (mean age  57.1 years [sd  10.6]; men  395 (62.7%); diabetes duration  6.3 years [sd  5.2]; body weight  92.3 kg [sd  16.8]; bmi  31.7 [sd  4.3])  583 (92%) completed the trial. mean change in hba1c level from baseline to week 26 decreased with oral semaglutide (dosage-dependent range  −0.7% to −1.9%) and subcutaneous semaglutide (−1.9%) and placebo (−0.3%); oral semaglutide reductions were significant vs placebo (dosage-dependent estimated treatment difference [etd] range for oral semaglutide vs placebo  –0.4% to –1.6%; p = .01 for 2.5 mg  <.001 for all other dosages). reductions in body weight were greater with oral semaglutide (dosage-dependent range  −2.1 kg to −6.9 kg) and subcutaneous semaglutide (−6.4 kg) vs placebo (−1.2 kg)  and significant for oral semaglutide dosages of 10 mg or more vs placebo (dosage-dependent etd range  –0.9 to –5.7 kg; p < .001). adverse events were reported by 63% to 86% (371 of 490 patients) in the oral semaglutide groups  81% (56 of 69 patients) in the subcutaneous semaglutide group  and 68% (48 of 71 patients) in the placebo group; mild to moderate gastrointestinal events were most common. conclusions and relevance among patients with type 2 diabetes  oral semaglutide resulted in better glycemic control than placebo over 26 weeks. these findings support phase 3 studies to assess longer-term and clinical outcomes  as well as safety. trial registration clinicaltrials.gov identifier: nct01923181
649,the financial cost of doctors emigrating from sub-saharan africa: human capital analysis,objective to estimate the lost investment of domestically educated doctors migrating from sub-saharan african countries to australia  canada  the united kingdom  and the united states. design human capital cost analysis using publicly accessible data. settings sub-saharan african countries. participants nine sub-saharan african countries with an hiv prevalence of 5% or greater or with more than one million people with hiv/aids and with at least one medical school (ethiopia  kenya  malawi  nigeria  south africa  tanzania  uganda  zambia  and zimbabwe)  and data available on the number of doctors practising in destination countries. main outcome measures the financial cost of educating a doctor (through primary  secondary  and medical school)  assuming that migration occurred after graduation  using current country specific interest rates for savings converted to us dollars; cost according to the number of source country doctors currently working in the destination countries; and savings to destination countries of receiving trained doctors. results in the nine source countries the estimated government subsidised cost of a doctor's education ranged from $21 000 (£13 000; €15 000) in uganda to $58 700 in south africa. the overall estimated loss of returns from investment for all doctors currently working in the destination countries was $2.17bn (95% confidence interval 2.13bn to 2.21bn)  with costs for each country ranging from $2.16m (1.55m to 2.78m) for malawi to $1.41bn (1.38bn to 1.44bn) for south africa. the ratio of the estimated compounded lost investment over gross domestic product showed that zimbabwe and south africa had the largest losses. the benefit to destination countries of recruiting trained doctors was largest for the united kingdom ($2.7bn) and united states ($846m). conclusions among sub-saharan african countries most affected by hiv/aids  lost investment from the emigration of doctors is considerable. destination countries should consider investing in measurable training for source countries and strengthening of their health systems.
651,natural variation in the parameters of innate immune cells is preferentially driven by genetic factors,the quantification and characterization of circulating immune cells provide key indicators of human health and disease. to identify the relative effects of environmental and genetic factors on variation in the parameters of innate and adaptive immune cells in homeostatic conditions  we combined standardized flow cytometry of blood leukocytes and genome-wide dna genotyping of 1 000 healthy  unrelated people of western european ancestry. we found that smoking  together with age  sex and latent infection with cytomegalovirus  were the main non-genetic factors that affected variation in parameters of human immune cells. genome-wide association studies of 166 immunophenotypes identified 15 loci that showed enrichment for disease-associated variants. finally  we demonstrated that the parameters of innate cells were more strongly controlled by genetic variation than were those of adaptive cells  which were driven by mainly environmental exposure. our data establish a resource that will generate new hypotheses in immunology and highlight the role of innate immunity in susceptibility to common autoimmune diseases. both environmental factors and genetic factors influence human immunity. albert and colleagues leverage data from the milieu intérieur consortium to comprehensively describe the effects of lifestyle  environment and genetics on human innate and adaptive immunity.
653,lin28b enhanced tumorigenesis in an autochthonous krasg12v-driven lung carcinoma mouse model,lin28b is a rna-binding protein regulating predominantly let-7 micrornas with essential functions in inflammation  wound healing  embryonic stem cells  and cancer. lin28b expression is associated with tumor initiation  progression  resistance  and poor outcome in several solid cancers  including lung cancer. however  the functional role of lin28b  especially in non-small cell lung adenocarcinomas  remains elusive. here  we investigated the effects of lin28b expression on lung tumorigenesis using lin28b transgenic overexpression in an autochthonous krasg12v-driven mouse model. we found that lin28b overexpression significantly increased the number of cd44+/cd326+ tumor cells  upregulated vegf-a and mir-21 and promoted tumor angiogenesis and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (emt) accompanied by enhanced akt phosphorylation and nuclear translocation of c-myc. moreover  lin28b accelerated tumor initiation and enhanced proliferation which led to a shortened overall survival. in addition  we analyzed lung adenocarcinomas of the cancer genome atlas (tcga) and found lin28b expression in 24% of kras-mutated cases  which underscore the relevance of our model.
655,randomized clinical study of hydrofiber dressing with silver or silver sulfadiazine in the management of partial-thickness burns.,this prospective  randomized study compared protocols of care using either aquacel ag hydrofiber (convatec  a bristol-myers squibb company  skillman  nj) dressing with silver (n = 42) or silver sulfadiazine (n = 42) for up to 21 days in the management of partial-thickness burns covering 5% to 40% body surface area (bsa). aquacel ag dressing was associated with less pain and anxiety during dressing changes  less burning and stinging during wear  fewer dressing changes  less nursing time  and fewer procedural medications. silver sulfadiazine was associated with greater flexibility and ease of movement. adverse events  including infection  were comparable between treatment groups. the aquacel ag dressing protocol tended to have lower total treatment costs (dollars 1040 vs. dollars 1180) and a greater rate of re-epithelialization (73.8% vs 60.0%)  resulting in cost-effectiveness per burn healed of dollars 1 409.06 for aquacel ag dressing and dollars 1 967.95 for silver sulfadiazine. a protocol of care with aquacel(r) ag provided clinical and economic benefits compared with silver sulfadiazine in patients with partial-thickness burns.
657,p62/sqstm1 by binding to vitamin d receptor inhibits hepatic stellate cell activity  fibrosis  and liver cancer.,hepatic stellate cells (hscs) play critical roles in liver fibrosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc). vitamin d receptor (vdr) activation in hscs inhibits liver inflammation and fibrosis. we found that p62/sqstm1  a protein upregulated in liver parenchymal cells but downregulated in hcc-associated hscs  negatively controls hsc activation. total body or hsc-specific p62 ablation potentiates hscs and enhances inflammation  fibrosis  and hcc progression. p62 directly interacts with vdr and rxr promoting their heterodimerization  which is critical for vdr:rxr target gene recruitment. loss of p62 in hscs impairs the repression of fibrosis and inflammation by vdr agonists. this demonstrates that p62 is a negative regulator of liver inflammation and fibrosis through its ability to promote vdr signaling in hscs  whose activation supports hcc.
659,β-catenin signaling and roles in liver homeostasis  injury  and tumorigenesis.,β-catenin (encoded by ctnnb1) is a subunit of the cell surface cadherin protein complex that acts as an intracellular signal transducer in the wnt signaling pathway; alterations in its activity have been associated with the development of hepatocellular carcinoma and other liver diseases. other than wnt  additional signaling pathways also can converge at β-catenin. β-catenin also interacts with transcription factors such as t-cell factor  forkhead box protein o  and hypoxia inducible factor 1α to regulate the expression of target genes. we discuss the role of β-catenin in metabolic zonation of the adult liver. β-catenin also regulates the expression of genes that control metabolism of glucose  nutrients  and xenobiotics; alterations in its activity may contribute to the pathogenesis of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. alterations in β-catenin signaling may lead to activation of hepatic stellate cells  which is required for fibrosis. many hepatic tumors such as hepatocellular adenomas  hepatocellular cancers  and hepatoblastomas have mutations in ctnnb1 that result in constitutive activation of β-catenin  so this molecule could be a therapeutic target. we discuss how alterations in β-catenin activity contribute to liver disease and how these might be used in diagnosis and prognosis  as well as in the development of therapeutics.
661,formin-mediated actin polymerization at cell–cell junctions stabilizes e-cadherin and maintains monolayer integrity during wound repair,cadherin-mediated cell-cell adhesion is required for epithelial tissue integrity in homeostasis  during development  and in tissue repair. e-cadherin stability depends on f-actin  but the mechanisms regulating actin polymerization at cell-cell junctions remain poorly understood. here we investigated a role for formin-mediated actin polymerization at cell-cell junctions. we identify mdia1 and fmnl3 as major factors enhancing actin polymerization and stabilizing e-cadherin at epithelial junctions. fmnl3 localizes to adherens junctions downstream of src and cdc42 and its depletion leads to a reduction in f-actin and e-cadherin at junctions and a weakening of cell-cell adhesion. of importance  fmnl3 expression is up-regulated and junctional localization increases during collective cell migration. depletion of fmnl3 or mdia1 in migrating monolayers results in dissociation of leader cells and impaired wound repair. in summary  our results show that formin activity at epithelial cell-cell junctions is important for adhesion and the maintenance of epithelial cohesion during dynamic processes  such as wound repair.
663,long non-coding rna hottip promotes bcl-2 expression and induces chemoresistance in small cell lung cancer by sponging mir-216a,despite progress in treatment of small cell lung cancer (sclc)  its multidrug chemoresistance and poor prognosis still remain. recently  we globally assessed long non-coding rnas (lncrnas) for contributions to sclc chemoresistance using microarray data  in vitro and in vivo assays. here we reported that hottip  encoding a lncrna that is frequently amplified in sclc  was associated with sclc cell chemosensitivity  proliferation  and poor prognosis of sclc patients. moreover  mechanistic investigations showed that hottip functioned as an oncogene in sclc progression by binding mir-216a and abrogating its tumor-suppressive function in this setting. on the other hand  hottip increased the expression of anti-apoptotic factor bcl-2  another important target gene of mir-216a  and jointly enhanced chemoresistance of sclc by regulating bcl-2. taken together  our study established a role for hottip in sclc progression and chemoresistance suggest its candidacy as a new diagnostic and prognostic biomarker for clinical management of sclc.
665,slp-65 regulates immunoglobulin light chain gene recombination through the pi(3)k-pkb-foxo pathway,although the essential role of the adaptor protein slp-65 in pre-b cell differentiation is established  the molecular mechanism underlying its function is poorly understood. in this study  we uncover a link between slp-65–dependent signaling and the phosphoinositide-3-oh kinase (pi(3)k)–protein kinase b (pkb)–foxo pathway. we show that the forkhead box transcription factor foxo3a promotes light chain rearrangement in pre-b cells. our data suggest that pkb suppresses light chain recombination by phosphorylating foxo proteins  whereas reconstitution of slp-65 function counteracts pkb activation and promotes foxo3a and foxo1 activity in pre-b cells. together  these data illuminate a molecular function of slp-65 and identify a key role for foxo proteins in the regulation of light chain recombination  receptor editing and b cell selection.
667,epcam-regulated intramembrane proteolysis induces a cancer stem cell-like gene signature in hepatitis b virus-infected hepatocytes.,background & aims hepatocytes in which the hepatitis b virus (hbv) is replicating exhibit loss of the chromatin modifying polycomb repressive complex 2 (prc2)  resulting in re-expression of specific  cellular prc2-repressed genes. epithelial cell adhesion molecule (epcam) is a prc2-repressed gene  normally expressed in hepatic progenitors  but re-expressed in hepatic cancer stem cells (hcscs). herein  we investigated the functional significance of epcam re-expression in hbv-mediated hepatocarcinogenesis. methods employing molecular approaches (transfections  fluorescence-activated cell sorting  immunoblotting  qrt-pcr)  we investigated the role of epcam-regulated intramembrane proteolysis (rip) in hbv replicating cells in vitro  and in liver tumors from hbv x/c-myc mice and chronically hbv infected patients. results epcam undergoes rip in hbv replicating cells  activating canonical wnt signaling. transfection of wnt-responsive plasmid expressing green fluorescent protein (gfp) identified a gfp + population of hbv replicating cells. these gfp+/wnt+ cells exhibited cisplatin- and sorafenib-resistant growth resembling hcscs  and increased expression of pluripotency genes nanog  oct4  sox2  and hcsc markers bambi  cd44 and cd133. these genes are referred as epcam rip and wnt-induced hcsc-like gene signature. interestingly  this gene signature is also overexpressed in liver tumors of x/c-myc bitransgenic mice. clinically  a group of hbv-associated hepatocellular carcinomas was identified  exhibiting elevated expression of the hcsc-like gene signature and associated with reduced overall survival post-surgical resection. conclusions the hcsc-like gene signature offers promise as prognostic tool for classifying subtypes of hbv-induced hccs. since epcam rip and wnt signaling drive expression of this hcsc-like signature  inhibition of these pathways can be explored as therapeutic strategy for this subtype of hbv-associated hccs. lay summary in this study  we provide evidence for a molecular mechanism by which chronic infection by the hepatitis b virus results in the development of poor prognosis liver cancer. based on this mechanism our results suggest possible therapeutic interventions.
669,metformin attenuates blood-brain barrier disruption in mice following middle cerebral artery occlusion,background metformin  a widely used hypoglycemic drug  reduces stroke incidence and alleviates chronic inflammation in clinical trials. however  the effect of metformin in ischemic stroke is unclear. here  we investigated the effect of metformin on ischemic stroke in mice and further explored the possible underlying mechanisms. methods ninety-eight adult male cd-1 mice underwent 90-minute transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (tmcao). metformin (200 mg/kg) was administrated for up to 14 days. neurobehavioral outcomes  brain infarct volume  inflammatory factors  blood-brain barrier (bbb) permeability and ampk signaling pathways were evaluated following tmcao. oxygen glucose deprivation was performed on bend.3 cells to explore the mechanisms of metformin in inhibiting inflammatory signaling pathways. results infarct volume was reduced in metformin-treated mice compared to the control group following tmcao (p < 0.05). neurobehavioral outcomes were greatly improved in metformin-treated mice (p < 0.05). mpo+ cells  gr1+ cells  mpo activity and bbb permeability were decreased after metformin administration (p < 0.05). in addition  metformin activated ampk phosphorylation  inhibited nf-κb activation  down-regulated cytokine (il-1β  il-6  tnf-α) and icam-1 expression following tmcao (p < 0.05). furthermore  metformin activated ampk signaling pathway and alleviated oxygen-glucose deprivation-induced icam-1 expression in bend.3 cells (p < 0.05). compound c  a selective ampk inhibitor  eliminated this promotional effect. conclusions metformin down-regulated icam-1 in an ampk-dependent manner  which could effectively prevent ischemia-induced brain injury by alleviating neutrophil infiltration  suggesting that metformin is a promising therapeutic agent in stroke therapy.
671,microfluidic platform to evaluate migration of cells from patients with dyt1 dystonia.,background microfluidic platforms for quantitative evaluation of cell biologic processes allow low cost and time efficient research studies of biological and pathological events  such as monitoring cell migration by real-time imaging. in healthy and disease states  cell migration is crucial in development and wound healing  as well as to maintain the body's homeostasis. new method the microfluidic chambers allow precise measurements to investigate whether fibroblasts carrying a mutation in the tor1a gene  underlying the hereditary neurologic disease--dyt1 dystonia  have decreased migration properties when compared to control cells. results we observed that fibroblasts from dyt1 patients showed abnormalities in basic features of cell migration  such as reduced velocity and persistence of movement. comparison with existing method the microfluidic method enabled us to demonstrate reduced polarization of the nucleus and abnormal orientation of nuclei and golgi inside the moving dyt1 patient cells compared to control cells  as well as vectorial movement of single cells. conclusion we report here different assays useful in determining various parameters of cell migration in dyt1 patient cells as a consequence of the tor1a gene mutation  including a microfluidic platform  which provides a means to evaluate real-time vectorial movement with single cell resolution in a three-dimensional environment.
673,the tumorigenic potential of pluripotent stem cells: what can we do to minimize it?,human pluripotent stem cells (hpscs) have the potential to fundamentally change the way that we go about treating and understanding human disease. despite this extraordinary potential  these cells also have an innate capability to form tumors in immunocompromised individuals when they are introduced in their pluripotent state. although current therapeutic strategies involve transplantation of only differentiated hpsc derivatives  there is still a concern that transplanted cell populations could contain a small percentage of cells that are not fully differentiated. in addition  these cells have been frequently reported to acquire genetic alterations that  in some cases  are associated with certain types of human cancers. here  we try to separate the panic from reality and rationally evaluate the true tumorigenic potential of these cells. we also discuss a recent study examining the effect of culture conditions on the genetic integrity of hpscs. finally  we present a set of sensible guidelines for minimizing the tumorigenic potential of hpsc-derived cells. © 2016 the authors. inside the cell published by wiley periodicals  inc.
675,thymic expression of the golli-myelin basic protein gene in the sjl/j mouse,the t cell antigen-specific repertoire is thought to be shaped by thymic expression of self molecules. since a myelin basic protein (mbp)-like gene (golli-mbp) has been reported to be expressed by cells of the immune system  the present study was undertaken to determine whether the golli-mbp gene was expressed in the mouse thymus and  if so  to characterize transcripts of this gene in this organ. using exon-specific primers for mbp and golli-mbp  cdna from thymus and other tissues was amplified  and the amplified products analyzed by southern blotting with exon-specific oligonucleotide probes. the amplified products were subcloned  and the inserts characterized by dna sequencing. the thymic transcripts were found to contain golli-mbp exons 1  2  3  5a  5b  5c  6  7  8  and 11.
677,elevated plasma transforming growth factor &bgr;1 levels predict the development of hypertension in normotensives: the 14-year follow-up study,background transforming growth factor β1 (tgf-β1) is a multifunctional cytokine. there is growing evidence that tgf-β1 is involved in the pathogenesis of hypertension and the development of target organ damage in hypertensives. although several studies have shown that tgf-β1 induced vascular hypertrophy and remodelling in various vascular diseases  there are no longitudinal data on hypertension in the epidemiological studies. the present study tested the hypothesis whether elevated tgf-β1 levels can predict the development of hypertension. methods in 2002-2004  528 subjects received health examinations in uku town  southwestern japan. we examined blood pressure (bp)  body mass index  and blood test. data on fasting plasma tgf-β1 were obtained from 528 individuals. of these  149 normotensives (bp <140/90 mm hg without antihypertensive medications) at baseline were followed-up for 14 years. results the receiver-operating characteristic curve was used and the calculated cutoff value was 8.9 ng/ml. of 149 normotensives at baseline  59 subjects developed hypertension. plasma tgf-β1 levels were significantly associated with the development of hypertension after adjustment for confounding factors. to further examine the association between them  we performed logistic regression analysis. we divided the baseline plasma tgf-β1 levels into 2 groups using a cutoff value. the significant high odds ratio [3.582 (95% confidence interval  1.025-12.525)] for the development of hypertension was found in the highest group of tgf-β1 level vs. the lowest group after adjustment for confounders. conclusions this is the first report demonstrating the causal relationship between them. elevated plasma tgf-β1 levels predicted the development of hypertension in normotensives in a population of community-dwelling japanese.
679,integrated maps in quail (coturnix japonica) confirm the high degree of synteny conservation with chicken (gallus gallus) despite 35 million years of divergence,backgroundby comparing the quail genome with that of chicken  chromosome rearrangements that have occurred in these two galliform species over 35 million years of evolution can be detected. from a more practical point of view  the definition of conserved syntenies helps to predict the position of genes in quail  based on information taken from the chicken sequence  thus enhancing the utility of this species in biological studies through a better knowledge of its genome structure. a microsatellite and an amplified fragment length polymorphism (aflp) genetic map were previously published for quail  as well as comparative cytogenetic data with chicken for macrochromosomes. quail genomics will benefit from the extension and the integration of these maps. resultsthe integrated linkage map presented here is based on segregation analysis of both anonymous markers and functional gene loci in 1 050 quail from three independent f2 populations. ninety-two loci are resolved into 14 autosomal linkage groups and a z chromosome-specific linkage group  aligned with the quail aflp map. the size of linkage groups ranges from 7.8 cm to 274.8 cm. the total map distance covers 904.3 cm with an average spacing of 9.7 cm between loci. the coverage is not complete  as macrochromosome cja08  the gonosome cjaw and 23 microchromosomes have no marker assigned yet. significant sequence identities of quail markers with chicken enabled the alignment of the quail linkage groups on the chicken genome sequence assembly. this  together with interspecific fluorescence in situ hybridization (fish)  revealed very high similarities in marker order between the two species for the eight macrochromosomes and the 14 microchromosomes studied. conclusionintegrating the two microsatellite and the aflp quail genetic maps greatly enhances the quality of the resulting information and will thus facilitate the identification of quantitative trait loci (qtl). the alignment with the chicken chromosomes confirms the high conservation of gene order that was expected between the two species for macrochromosomes. by extending the comparative study to the microchromosomes  we suggest that a wealth of information can be mined in chicken  to be used for genome analyses in quail.
681,aliskiren combined with losartan in type 2 diabetes and nephropathy.,background diabetic nephropathy is the leading cause of end-stage renal disease in developed countries. we evaluated the renoprotective effects of dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system by adding treatment with aliskiren  an oral direct renin inhibitor  to treatment with the maximal recommended dose of losartan (100 mg daily) and optimal antihypertensive therapy in patients who had hypertension and type 2 diabetes with nephropathy. methods we enrolled 599 patients in this multinational  randomized  double-blind study. after a 3-month  open-label  run-in period during which patients received 100 mg of losartan daily  patients were randomly assigned to receive 6 months of treatment with aliskiren (150 mg daily for 3 months  followed by an increase in dosage to 300 mg daily for another 3 months) or placebo  in addition to losartan. the primary outcome was a reduction in the ratio of albumin to creatinine  as measured in an early-morning urine sample  at 6 months. results the baseline characteristics of the two groups were similar. treatment with 300 mg of aliskiren daily  as compared with placebo  reduced the mean urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio by 20% (95% confidence interval  9 to 30; p<0.001)  with a reduction of 50% or more in 24.7% of the patients who received aliskiren as compared with 12.5% of those who received placebo (p<0.001). a small difference in blood pressure was seen between the treatment groups by the end of the study period (systolic  2 mm hg lower [p=0.07] and diastolic  1 mm hg lower [p=0.08] in the aliskiren group). the total numbers of adverse and serious adverse events were similar in the groups. conclusions aliskiren may have renoprotective effects that are independent of its blood-pressure-lowering effect in patients with hypertension  type 2 diabetes  and nephropathy who are receiving the recommended renoprotective treatment. (clinicaltrials.gov number  nct00097955 [clinicaltrials.gov].).
683,structural studies of a four-mbt repeat protein mbtd1,background the polycomb group (pcg) of proteins is a family of important developmental regulators. the respective members function as large protein complexes involved in establishment and maintenance of transcriptional repression of developmental control genes. mbtd1  malignant brain tumor domain-containing protein 1  is one such pcg protein. mbtd1 contains four mbt repeats. methodology/principal findings we have determined the crystal structure of mbtd1 (residues 130-566aa covering the 4 mbt repeats) at 2.5 a resolution by x-ray crystallography. the crystal structure of mbtd1 reveals its similarity to another four-mbt-repeat protein l3mbtl2  which binds lower methylated lysine histones. fluorescence polarization experiments confirmed that mbtd1 preferentially binds mono- and di-methyllysine histone peptides  like l3mbtl1 and l3mbtl2. all known mbt-peptide complex structures characterized to date do not exhibit strong histone peptide sequence selectivity  and use a "cavity insertion recognition mode" to recognize the methylated lysine with the deeply buried methyl-lysine forming extensive interactions with the protein while the peptide residues flanking methyl-lysine forming very few contacts [1]. nevertheless  our mutagenesis data based on l3mbtl1 suggested that the histone peptides could not bind to mbt repeats in any orientation. conclusions the four mbt repeats in mbtd1 exhibits an asymmetric rhomboid architecture. like other mbt repeat proteins characterized so far  mbtd1 binds mono- or dimethylated lysine histones through one of its four mbt repeats utilizing a semi-aromatic cage. enhanced version this article can also be viewed as an enhanced version in which the text of the article is integrated with interactive 3d representations and animated transitions. please note that a web plugin is required to access this enhanced functionality. instructions for the installation and use of the web plugin are available in text s1.
685,cd4+ t cell help guides formation of cd103+ lung-resident memory cd8+ t cells during influenza viral infection.,tissue-resident memory t (trm) cells provide enhanced protection against infection at mucosal sites. here we found that cd4(+) t cells are important for the formation of functional lung-resident cd8(+) t cells after influenza virus infection. in the absence of cd4(+) t cells  cd8(+) t cells displayed reduced expression of cd103 (itgae)  were mislocalized away from airway epithelia  and demonstrated an impaired ability to recruit cd8(+) t cells to the lung airways upon heterosubtypic challenge. cd4(+) t cell-derived interferon-γ was necessary for generating lung-resident cd103(+) cd8(+) trm cells. furthermore  expression of the transcription factor t-bet was increased in "unhelped" lung trm cells  and a reduction in t-bet rescued cd103 expression in the absence of cd4(+) t cell help. thus  cd4(+) t cell-dependent signals are important to limit expression of t-bet and allow for the development of cd103(+) cd8(+) trm cells in the lung airways following respiratory infection.
687,computational and statistical analyses of amino acid usage and physico-chemical properties of the twelve late embryogenesis abundant protein classes,late embryogenesis abundant proteins (leaps) are ubiquitous proteins expected to play major roles in desiccation tolerance. little is known about their structure - function relationships because of the scarcity of 3-d structures for leaps. the previous building of leapdb  a database dedicated to leaps from plants and other organisms  led to the classification of 710 leaps into 12 non-overlapping classes with distinct properties. using this resource  numerous physico-chemical properties of leaps and amino acid usage by leaps have been computed and statistically analyzed  revealing distinctive features for each class. this unprecedented analysis allowed a rigorous characterization of the 12 leap classes  which differed also in multiple structural and physico-chemical features. although most leaps can be predicted as intrinsically disordered proteins  the analysis indicates that leap class 7 (pf03168) and probably leap class 11 (pf04927) are natively folded proteins. this study thus provides a detailed description of the structural properties of this protein family opening the path toward further leap structure - function analysis. finally  since each leap class can be clearly characterized by a unique set of physico-chemical properties  this will allow development of software to predict proteins as leaps.
689,epithelial to mesenchymal transition by tgfβ-1 induction increases stemness characteristics in primary non small cell lung cancer cell line,background cancer stem cells (cscs) hypothesis asserts that only a small subset of cells within a tumour is capable of both tumour initiation and sustainment. the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (emt) is an embryonic developmental program that is often activated during cancer invasion and metastasis. the aim of this study is to shed light on the relationship between emt and cscs by using lc31 lung cancer primary cell line. materials and methods a549 and lc31 cell lines were treated with 2 ng/ml tgfβ-1 for 30 days  and 80 days  respectively. to evaluate emt  morphological changes were assessed by light microscopy  immunofluorescence and cytometry for following markers: cytokeratins  e-cadherin  cd326 (epithelial markers) and cd90  and vimentin (mesenchymal markers). moreover  rt-pcr for slug  twist and β-catenin genes were performed. on tgfβ-1 treated and untreated lc31 cell lines  we performed stemness tests such as pneumospheres growth and stem markers expression such as oct4  nanog  sox2  c-kit and cd133. western blot for cd133 and tumorigenicity assays using nod/scid mice were performed. results tgfβ-1 treated lc31 cell line lost its epithelial morphology assuming a fibroblast-like appearance. the same results were obtained for the a549 cell line (as control). immunofluorescence and cytometry showed up-regulation of vimentin and cd90 and down-regulation of cytocheratin  e-cadherin and cd326 in tgfβ-1 treated lc31 and a549 cell lines. slug  twist and β-catenin m-rna transcripts were up-regulated in tgfβ-1 treated lc31 cell line confirming emt. this cell line showed also over-expression of oct4  nanog  sox2 and cd133  all genes of stemness. in addition  in tgfβ-1 treated lc31 cell line  an increased pneumosphere-forming capacity and tumours-forming ability in nod/scid mice were detectable. conclusions the induction of emt by tgfβ-1 exposure  in primary lung cancer cell line results in the acquisition of mesenchymal profile and in the expression of stem cell markers.
691,cdk inhibitors in cancer therapy: what is next?,the pursuit for drugs that inhibit cyclin-dependent kinases (cdks) has been an intense area of research for more than 15 years. the first-generation inhibitors  flavopiridol and cy-202  are in late-stage clinical trials  but so far have demonstrated only modest activity. several second-generation inhibitors are now in clinical trials. future approaches to determine clinical benefit need to incorporate both the lessons learned from these early compounds and information recently obtained from the genetic analysis of cdks in preclinical models. here we discuss key concepts that should be considered when validating the clinical utility of cdk inhibitors in cancer therapy.
693,mesenchymal inflammation drives genotoxic stress in hematopoietic stem cells and predicts disease evolution in human pre-leukemia.,mesenchymal niche cells may drive tissue failure and malignant transformation in the hematopoietic system  but the underlying molecular mechanisms and relevance to human disease remain poorly defined. here  we show that perturbation of mesenchymal cells in a mouse model of the pre-leukemic disorder shwachman-diamond syndrome (sds) induces mitochondrial dysfunction  oxidative stress  and activation of dna damage responses in hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells. massive parallel rna sequencing of highly purified mesenchymal cells in the sds mouse model and a range of human pre-leukemic syndromes identified p53-s100a8/9-tlr inflammatory signaling as a common driving mechanism of genotoxic stress. transcriptional activation of this signaling axis in the mesenchymal niche predicted leukemic evolution and progression-free survival in myelodysplastic syndrome (mds)  the principal leukemia predisposition syndrome. collectively  our findings identify mesenchymal niche-induced genotoxic stress in heterotypic stem and progenitor cells through inflammatory signaling as a targetable determinant of disease outcome in human pre-leukemia.
695,cholesteryl ester transfer protein (cetp) polymorphisms affect mrna splicing  hdl levels  and sex-dependent cardiovascular risk,polymorphisms in and around the cholesteryl ester transfer protein (cetp) gene have been associated with hdl levels  risk for coronary artery disease (cad)  and response to therapy. the mechanism of action of these polymorphisms has yet to be defined. we used mrna allelic expression and splice isoform measurements in human liver tissues to identify the genetic variants affecting cetp levels. allelic cetp mrna expression ratios in 56 human livers were strongly associated with several variants 2.5-7 kb upstream of the transcription start site (e.g.  rs247616 p = 6.4 × 10(-5)  allele frequency 33%). in addition  a common alternatively spliced cetp isoform lacking exon 9 (δ9)  has been shown to prevent cetp secretion in a dominant-negative manner. the δ 9 expression ranged from 10 to 48% of total cetp mrna in 94 livers. increased formation of this isoform was exclusively associated with an exon 9 polymorphism rs5883-c>t (p = 6.8 × 10(-10)) and intron 8 polymorphism rs9930761-t>c (5.6 × 10(-8)) (in high linkage disequilibrium with allele frequencies 6-7%). rs9930761 changes a key splicing branch point nucleotide in intron 8  while rs5883 alters an exonic splicing enhancer sequence in exon 9.the effect of these polymorphisms was evaluated in two clinical studies. in the whitehall ii study of 4745 subjects  both rs247616 and rs5883t/rs9930761c were independently associated with increased hdl-c levels in males with similar effect size (rs247616 p = 9.6 × 10(-28) and rs5883 p = 8.6 × 10(-10)  adjusted for rs247616). in an independent multiethnic us cohort of hypertensive subjects with cad (invest-gene)  rs5883t/rs9930761c alone were significantly associated with increased incidence of mi  stroke  and all-cause mortality in males (rs5883: or 2.36 (ci 1.29-4.30)  p = 0.005  n = 866). these variants did not reach significance in females in either study. similar to earlier results linking low cetp activity with poor outcomes in males  our results suggest genetic  sex-dependent cetp splicing effects on cardiovascular risk by a mechanism independent of circulating hdl-c levels.
697,tissue mechanics orchestrate wnt-dependent human embryonic stem cell differentiation.,regenerative medicine is predicated on understanding the mechanisms regulating development and applying these conditions to direct stem cell fate. embryogenesis is guided by cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions  but it is unclear how these physical cues influence stem cells in culture. we used human embryonic stem cells (hescs) to examine whether mechanical features of the extracellular microenvironment could differentially modulate mesoderm specification. we found that  on a hydrogel-based compliant matrix  hescs accumulate β-catenin at cell-cell adhesions and show enhanced wnt-dependent mesoderm differentiation. mechanistically  src-driven ubiquitination of e-cadherin by cbl-like ubiquitin ligase releases p120-catenin to facilitate transcriptional activity of β-catenin  which initiates and reinforces mesoderm differentiation. by contrast  on a stiff hydrogel matrix  hescs show elevated integrin-dependent gsk3 and src activity that promotes β-catenin degradation and inhibits differentiation. thus  we found that mechanical features of the microenvironmental matrix influence tissue-specific differentiation of hescs by altering the cellular response to morphogens.
699,lin28 regulates stem cell metabolism and conversion to primed pluripotency.,the rna-binding proteins lin28a and lin28b play critical roles in embryonic development  tumorigenesis  and pluripotency  but their exact functions are poorly understood. here  we show that  like lin28a  lin28b can function effectively with nanog  oct4  and sox2 in reprogramming to pluripotency and that reactivation of both endogenous lin28a and lin28b loci are required for maximal reprogramming efficiency. in human fibroblasts  lin28b is activated early during reprogramming  while lin28a is activated later during the transition to bona fide induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs). in murine cells  lin28a and lin28b facilitate conversion from naive to primed pluripotency. proteomic and metabolomic analysis highlighted roles for lin28 in maintaining the low mitochondrial function associated with primed pluripotency and in regulating one-carbon metabolism  nucleotide metabolism  and histone methylation. lin28 binds to mrnas of proteins important for oxidative phosphorylation and modulates protein abundance. thus  lin28a and lin28b play cooperative roles in regulating reprogramming  naive/primed pluripotency  and stem cell metabolism.
701,tal effectors are remote controls for gene activation.,tal (transcription activator-like) effectors constitute a novel class of dna-binding proteins with predictable specificity. they are employed by gram-negative plant-pathogenic bacteria of the genus xanthomonas which translocate a cocktail of different effector proteins via a type iii secretion system (t3ss) into plant cells where they serve as virulence determinants. inside the plant cell  tals localize to the nucleus  bind to target promoters  and induce expression of plant genes. dna-binding specificity of tals is determined by a central domain of tandem repeats. each repeat confers recognition of one base pair (bp) in the dna. rearrangement of repeat modules allows design of proteins with desired dna-binding specificities. here  we summarize how tal specificity is encoded  first structural data and first data on site-specific tal nucleases.
703,association of intracerebral hemorrhage among patients taking non–vitamin k antagonist vs vitamin k antagonist oral anticoagulants with in-hospital mortality,importance although non–vitamin k antagonist oral anticoagulants (noacs) are increasingly used to prevent thromboembolic disease  there are limited data on noac-related intracerebral hemorrhage (ich). objective to assess the association between preceding oral anticoagulant use (warfarin  noacs  and no oral anticoagulants [oacs]) and in-hospital mortality among patients with ich. design  setting  and participants retrospective cohort study of 141 311 patients with ich admitted from october 2013 to december 2016 to 1662 get with the guidelines–stroke hospitals. exposures anticoagulation therapy before ich  defined as any use of oacs within 7 days prior to hospital arrival. main outcomes and measures in-hospital mortality. results among 141 311 patients with ich (mean [sd] age  68.3 [15.3] years; 48.1% women)  15 036 (10.6%) were taking warfarin and 4918 (3.5%) were taking noacs preceding ich  and 39 585 (28.0%) and 5783 (4.1%) were taking concomitant single and dual antiplatelet agents  respectively. patients with prior use of warfarin or noacs were older and had higher prevalence of atrial fibrillation and prior stroke. acute ich stroke severity (measured by the national institutes of health stroke scale) was not significantly different across the 3 groups (median  9 [interquartile range  2-21] for warfarin  8 [2-20] for noacs  and 8 [2-19] for no oacs). the unadjusted in-hospital mortality rates were 32.6% for warfarin  26.5% for noacs  and 22.5% for no oacs. compared with patients without prior use of oacs  the risk of in-hospital mortality was higher among patients with prior use of warfarin (adjusted risk difference [ard]  9.0% [97.5% ci  7.9% to 10.1%]; adjusted odds ratio [aor]  1.62 [97.5% ci  1.53 to 1.71]) and higher among patients with prior use of noacs (ard  3.3% [97.5% ci  1.7% to 4.8%]; aor  1.21 [97.5% ci  1.11-1.32]). compared with patients with prior use of warfarin  patients with prior use of noacs had a lower risk of in-hospital mortality (ard  −5.7% [97.5% ci  −7.3% to −4.2%]; aor  0.75 [97.5% ci  0.69 to 0.81]). the difference in mortality between noac-treated patients and warfarin-treated patients was numerically greater among patients with prior use of dual antiplatelet agents (32.7% vs 47.1%; ard  −15.0% [95.5% ci  −26.3% to −3.8%]; aor  0.50 [97.5% ci  0.29 to 0.86]) than among those taking these agents without prior antiplatelet therapy (26.4% vs 31.7%; ard  −5.0% [97.5% ci  −6.8% to −3.2%]; aor  0.77 [97.5% ci  0.70 to 0.85])  although the interaction p value (.07) was not statistically significant. conclusions and relevance among patients with ich  prior use of noacs or warfarin was associated with higher in-hospital mortality compared with no oacs. prior use of noacs  compared with prior use of warfarin  was associated with lower risk of in-hospital mortality.
705,health workers cohort study: methods and study design.,objective: to examine different health outcomes that are associated with specific lifestyle and genetic factors. materials and methods: from march 2004 to april 2006  a sample of employees from three different health and academic institutions  as well as their family members  were enrolled in the study after providing informed consent. at baseline and follow-up (2010-2013)  participants completed a self-administered questionnaire  a physical examination  and provided blood samples. results: a total of 10 729 participants aged 6 to 94 years were recruited at baseline. of these  70% were females  and 50% were from the mexican social security institute. nearly 42% of the adults in the sample were overweight  while 20% were obese. conclusion: our study can offer new insights into disease mechanisms and prevention through the analysis of risk factor information in a large sample of mexicans.
707,optimising strategies for plasmodium falciparum malaria elimination in cambodia: primaquine  mass drug administration and artemisinin resistance,background malaria elimination requires a variety of approaches individually optimized for different transmission settings. a recent field study in an area of low seasonal transmission in south west cambodia demonstrated dramatic reductions in malaria parasite prevalence following both mass drug administration (mda) and high treatment coverage of symptomatic patients with artemisinin-piperaquine plus primaquine. this study employed multiple combined strategies and it was unclear what contribution each made to the reductions in malaria. method and findings a mathematical model fitted to the trial results was used to assess the effects of the various components of these interventions  design optimal elimination strategies  and explore their interactions with artemisinin resistance  which has recently been discovered in western cambodia. the modelling indicated that most of the initial reduction of p. falciparum malaria resulted from mda with artemisinin-piperaquine. the subsequent continued decline and near elimination resulted mainly from high coverage with artemisinin-piperaquine treatment. both these strategies were more effective with the addition of primaquine. mda with artemisinin combination therapy (act) increased the proportion of artemisinin resistant infections  although much less than treatment of symptomatic cases with act  and this increase was slowed by adding primaquine. artemisinin resistance reduced the effectiveness of interventions using act when the prevalence of resistance was very high. the main results were robust to assumptions about primaquine action  and immunity. conclusions the key messages of these modelling results for policy makers were: high coverage with act treatment can produce a long-term reduction in malaria whereas the impact of mda is generally only short-term; primaquine enhances the effect of act in eliminating malaria and reduces the increase in proportion of artemisinin resistant infections; parasite prevalence is a better surveillance measure for elimination programmes than numbers of symptomatic cases; combinations of interventions are most effective and sustained efforts are crucial for successful elimination.
709,axicabtagene ciloleucel car t‐cell therapy in refractory large b‐cell lymphoma,background in a phase 1 trial  axicabtagene ciloleucel (axi‐cel)  an autologous anti‐cd19 chimeric antigen receptor (car) t‐cell therapy  showed efficacy in patients with refractory large b‐cell lymphoma after the failure of conventional therapy. methods in this multicenter  phase 2 trial  we enrolled 111 patients with diffuse large b‐cell lymphoma  primary mediastinal b‐cell lymphoma  or transformed follicular lymphoma who had refractory disease despite undergoing recommended prior therapy. patients received a target dose of 2×106 anti‐cd19 car t cells per kilogram of body weight after receiving a conditioning regimen of low‐dose cyclophosphamide and fludarabine. the primary end point was the rate of objective response (calculated as the combined rates of complete response and partial response). secondary end points included overall survival  safety  and biomarker assessments. results among the 111 patients who were enrolled  axi‐cel was successfully manufactured for 110 (99%) and administered to 101 (91%). the objective response rate was 82%  and the complete response rate was 54%.with a median follow‐up of 15.4 months  42% of the patients continued to have a response  with 40% continuing to have a complete response. the overall rate of survival at 18 months was 52%. the most common adverse events of grade 3 or higher during treatment were neutropenia (in 78% of the patients)  anemia (in 43%)  and thrombocytopenia (in 38%). grade 3 or higher cytokine release syndrome and neurologic events occurred in 13% and 28% of the patients  respectively. three of the patients died during treatment. higher car t‐cell levels in blood were associated with response. conclusions in this multicenter study  patients with refractory large b‐cell lymphoma who received car t‐cell therapy with axi‐cel had high levels of durable response  with a safety profile that included myelosuppression  the cytokine release syndrome  and neurologic events. (funded by kite pharma and the leukemia and lymphoma society therapy acceleration program; zuma‐1 clinicaltrials.gov number  nct02348216.)
711,stereotactic radiosurgery plus whole-brain radiation therapy vs stereotactic radiosurgery alone for treatment of brain metastases: a randomized controlled trial.,context in patients with brain metastases  it is unclear whether adding up-front whole-brain radiation therapy (wbrt) to stereotactic radiosurgery (srs) has beneficial effects on mortality or neurologic function compared with srs alone. objective to determine if wbrt combined with srs results in improvements in survival  brain tumor control  functional preservation rate  and frequency of neurologic death. design  setting  and patients randomized controlled trial of 132 patients with 1 to 4 brain metastases  each less than 3 cm in diameter  enrolled at 11 hospitals in japan between october 1999 and december 2003. interventions patients were randomly assigned to receive wbrt plus srs (65 patients) or srs alone (67 patients). main outcome measures the primary end point was overall survival; secondary end points were brain tumor recurrence  salvage brain treatment  functional preservation  toxic effects of radiation  and cause of death. results the median survival time and the 1-year actuarial survival rate were 7.5 months and 38.5% (95% confidence interval  26.7%-50.3%) in the wbrt + srs group and 8.0 months and 28.4% (95% confidence interval  17.6%-39.2%) for srs alone (p = .42). the 12-month brain tumor recurrence rate was 46.8% in the wbrt + srs group and 76.4% for srs alone group (p<.001). salvage brain treatment was less frequently required in the wbrt + srs group (n = 10) than with srs alone (n = 29) (p<.001). death was attributed to neurologic causes in 22.8% of patients in the wbrt + srs group and in 19.3% of those treated with srs alone (p = .64). there were no significant differences in systemic and neurologic functional preservation and toxic effects of radiation. conclusions compared with srs alone  the use of wbrt plus srs did not improve survival for patients with 1 to 4 brain metastases  but intracranial relapse occurred considerably more frequently in those who did not receive wbrt. consequently  salvage treatment is frequently required when up-front wbrt is not used. trial registration umin.ac.jp/ctr identifier: c000000412.
713,proteomic approach to characterize biochemistry of meat quality defects.,proteomics can be used to characterize quality defects including pale  soft  and exudative (pse) meat (pork and poultry)  woody broiler breast meat  reddish catfish fillets  meat toughness  and beef myoglobin oxidation. pse broiler meat was characterized by 15 proteins that differed in abundance in comparison to normal broiler breast meat  and eight proteins were differentially expressed in woody breast meat in comparison to normal breast meat. hemoglobin was the only protein that was differentially expressed between red and normal catfish fillets. however  inducing low oxygen and/or heat stress conditions to catfish fillets did not lead to the production of red fillets. proteomic data provided information pertaining to the protein differences that exist in meat quality defects. however  these data need to be evaluated in conjunction with information pertaining to genetics  nutrition  environment of the live animal  muscle to meat conversion  meat quality analyses and sensory attributes to understand causality  protein biomarkers  and ultimately how to prevent quality defects.
715,iap antagonists induce anti-tumor immunity in multiple myeloma,the cellular inhibitors of apoptosis (ciap) 1 and 2 are amplified in about 3% of cancers and have been identified in multiple malignancies as being potential therapeutic targets as a result of their role in the evasion of apoptosis. consequently  small-molecule iap antagonists  such as lcl161  have entered clinical trials for their ability to induce tumor necrosis factor (tnf)-mediated apoptosis of cancer cells. however  ciap1 and ciap2 are recurrently homozygously deleted in multiple myeloma (mm)  resulting in constitutive activation of the noncanonical nuclear factor (nf)-κb pathway. to our surprise  we observed robust in vivo anti-myeloma activity of lcl161 in a transgenic myeloma mouse model and in patients with relapsed-refractory mm  where the addition of cyclophosphamide resulted in a median progression-free-survival of 10 months. this effect was not a result of direct induction of tumor cell death  but rather of upregulation of tumor-cell-autonomous type i interferon (ifn) signaling and a strong inflammatory response that resulted in the activation of macrophages and dendritic cells  leading to phagocytosis of tumor cells. treatment of a mm mouse model with lcl161 established long-term anti-tumor protection and induced regression in a fraction of the mice. notably  combination of lcl161 with the immune-checkpoint inhibitor anti-pd1 was curative in all of the treated mice.
717,patient-derived induced pluripotent stem cells in cancer research and precision oncology,together with recent advances in the processing and culture of human tissue  bioengineering  xenotransplantation and genome editing  induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs) present a range of new opportunities for the study of human cancer. here we discuss the main advantages and limitations of ipsc modeling  and how the method intersects with other patient-derived models of cancer  such as organoids  organs-on-chips and patient-derived xenografts (pdxs). we highlight the opportunities that ipsc models can provide beyond those offered by existing systems and animal models and present current challenges and crucial areas for future improvements toward wider adoption of this technology.
719,caveolin-1 deletion exacerbates cardiac interstitial fibrosis by promoting m2 macrophage activation in mice after myocardial infarction.,adverse remodeling following myocardial infarction (mi) leading to heart failure is driven by an imbalanced resolution of inflammation. the macrophage cell is an important control of post-mi inflammation  as macrophage subtypes secrete mediators to either promote inflammation and extend injury (m1 phenotype) or suppress inflammation and promote scar formation (m2 phenotype). we have previously shown that the absence of caveolin-1 (cav1)  a membrane scaffolding protein  is associated with adverse cardiac remodeling in mice  but the mechanisms responsible remain to be elucidated. we explore here the role of cav1 in the activation of macrophages using wild type c57bl6/j (wt) and cav1(tm1mls/j) (cav1(-/-)) mice. by echocardiography  cardiac function was comparable between wt and cav1(-/-) mice at 3days post-mi. in the absence of cav1  there were a surprisingly higher percentage of m2 macrophages (arginase-1 positive) detected in the infarcted zone. conversely  restoring cav1 function after mi in wt mice by adding back the cav1 scaffolding domain reduced the m2 activation profile. further  adoptive transfer of cav1 null macrophages into wt mice on d3 post-mi exacerbated adverse cardiac remodeling at d14 post-mi. in vitro studies revealed that cav1 null macrophages had a more pronounced m2 profile activation in response to il-4 stimulation. in conclusion  cav1 deletion promotes an array of maladaptive repair processes after mi  including increased tgf-β signaling  increased m2 macrophage infiltration and dysregulation of the m1/m2 balance. our data also suggest that cardiac remodeling can be improved by therapeutic intervention regulating cav1 function during the inflammatory response phase.
721,roles of exosomes in cardioprotection.,exosomes are extracellular vesicles of endosomal origin which have emerged as key mediators of intercellular communication. all major cardiac cell types-including cardiomyocytes  endothelial cells  and fibroblasts-release exosomes that modulate cellular functions. exosomes released from human cardiac progenitor cells (cpcs) are cardioprotective and improve cardiac function after myocardial infarction to an extent comparable with that achieved by their parent cells. cardiac progenitor cell-derived exosomes are enriched in cardioprotective micrornas  particularly mir-146a-3p. circulating exosomes mediate remote ischaemic preconditioning. moreover  they currently are being investigated as diagnostic markers. the discovery that cell-derived extracellular signalling organelles mediate the paracrine effects of stem cells suggests that cell-free strategies could supplant cell transplantation. this review discusses emerging roles of exosomes in cardiovascular physiology  with a focus on cardioprotective activities of cpc-derived exosomes.
723,development of a novel helper-dependent adenovirus-epstein-barr virus hybrid system for the stable transformation of mammalian cells.,epstein-barr virus (ebv) episomes are stably maintained in permissive proliferating cell lines due to ebv nuclear antigen 1 (ebna-1) protein-mediated replication and segregation. previous studies showed the ability of ebv episomes to confer long-term transgene expression and correct genetic defects in deficient cells. to achieve quantitative delivery of ebv episomes in vitro and in vivo  we developed a binary helper-dependent adenovirus (hda)-ebv hybrid system that consists of one hda vector for the expression of cre recombinase and a second hda vector that contains all of the sequences for the ebv episome flanked by loxp sites. upon coinfection of cells  cre expressed from the first vector recombined loxp sites on the second vector. the resulting circular ebv episomes expressed a transgene and contained the ebv-derived family of repeats  an ebna-1 expression cassette  and 19 kb of human dna that functions as a replication origin in mammalian cells. this hda-ebv hybrid system transformed 40% of cultured cells. transgene expression in proliferating cells was observed for over 20 weeks under conditions that selected for the expression of the transgene. in the absence of selection  ebv episomes were lost at a rate of 8 to 10% per cell division. successful delivery of ebv episomes in vivo was demonstrated in the liver of transgenic mice expressing cre from the albumin promoter. this novel gene transfer system has the potential to confer long-term episomal transgene expression and therefore to correct genetic defects with reduced vector-related toxicity and without insertional mutagenesis.
725,transcripts of the mhm region on the chicken z chromosome accumulate as non-coding rna in the nucleus of female cells adjacent to the dmrt1 locus,the male hypermethylated (mhm) region  located near the middle of the short arm of the z chromosome of chickens  consists of approximately 210 tandem repeats of a bamhi 2.2-kb sequence unit. cytosines of the cpg dinucleotides of this region are extensively methylated on the two z chromosomes in the male but much less methylated on the single z chromosome in the female. the state of methylation of the mhm region is established after fertilization by about the 1-day embryonic stage. the mhm region is transcribed only in the female from the particular strand into heterogeneous  high molecular-mass  non-coding rna  which is accumulated at the site of transcription  adjacent to the dmrt1 locus  in the nucleus. the transcriptional silence of the mhm region in the male is most likely caused by the cpg methylation  since treatment of the male embryonic fibroblasts with 5-azacytidine results in hypo-methylation and active transcription of this region. in zzw triploid chickens  mhm regions are hypomethylated and transcribed on the two z chromosomes  whereas mhm regions are hypermethylated and transcriptionally inactive on the three z chromosomes in zzz triploid chickens  suggesting a possible role of the w chromosome on the state of the mhm region.
727,linking splicing to pol ii transcription stabilizes pre-mrnas and influences splicing patterns,rna processing is carried out in close proximity to the site of transcription  suggesting a regulatory link between transcription and pre-mrna splicing. using an in vitro transcription/splicing assay  we demonstrate that an association of rna polymerase ii (pol ii) transcription and pre-mrna splicing is required for efficient gene expression. pol ii-synthesized rnas containing functional splice sites are protected from nuclear degradation  presumably because the local concentration of the splicing machinery is sufficiently high to ensure its association over interactions with nucleases. furthermore  the process of transcription influences alternative splicing of newly synthesized pre-mrnas. because other rna polymerases do not provide similar protection from nucleases  and their rna products display altered splicing patterns  the link between transcription and rna processing is rna pol ii-specific. we propose that the connection between transcription by pol ii and pre-mrna splicing guarantees an extended half-life and proper processing of nascent pre-mrnas.
729,effect of specific exercise strategy on need for surgery in patients with subacromial impingement syndrome: randomised controlled study,objective to evaluate if a specific exercise strategy  targeting the rotator cuff and scapula stabilisers  improves shoulder function and pain more than unspecific exercises in patients with subacromial impingement syndrome  thereby decreasing the need for arthroscopic subacromial decompression. design randomised  participant and single assessor blinded  controlled study. setting department of orthopaedics in a swedish university hospital. participants 102 patients with long standing (over six months) persistent subacromial impingement syndrome in whom earlier conservative treatment had failed  recruited through orthopaedic specialists. interventions the specific exercise strategy consisted of strengthening eccentric exercises for the rotator cuff and concentric/eccentric exercises for the scapula stabilisers in combination with manual mobilisation. the control exercise programme consisted of unspecific movement exercises for the neck and shoulder. patients in both groups received five to six individual guided treatment sessions during 12 weeks. in between these supervised sessions the participants performed home exercises once or twice a day for 12 weeks. main outcome measures the primary outcome was the constant-murley shoulder assessment score evaluating shoulder function and pain. secondary outcomes were patients' global impression of change because of treatment and decision regarding surgery. results most (97  95%) participants completed the 12 week study. there was a significantly greater improvement in the constant-murley score in the specific exercise group than in the control exercise group (24 points (95% confidence interval 19 to 28.0) v 9 points (5 to 13); mean difference between group: 15 points (8.5 to 20.6)). significantly more patients in the specific exercise group reported successful outcome (defined as large improvement or recovered) in the patients' global assessment of change because of treatment: 69% (35/51) v 24% (11/46); odds ratio 7.6  3.1 to 18.9; p<0.001. a significantly lower proportion of patients in the specific exercise group subsequently chose to undergo surgery: 20% (10/51) v 63% (29/46); odds ratio 7.7  3.1 to 19.4; p<0.001). conclusion a specific exercise strategy  focusing on strengthening eccentric exercises for the rotator cuff and concentric/eccentric exercises for the scapula stabilisers  is effective in reducing pain and improving shoulder function in patients with persistent subacromial impingement syndrome. by extension  this exercise strategy reduces the need for arthroscopic subacromial decompression within the three month timeframe used in the study. trial registration clinical trials nct01037673.
731,issues in design and interpretation of mdr-tb clinical trials: report of the first global mdr-tb clinical trials landscape meeting,recognizing that the current mdr-tb regimen is suboptimal and based on low-quality evidence  the global mdr-tb clinical trials landscape meeting was held in december  2014 to strategize about coordination of research and development of new treatment regimens for this disease that affects millions of people worldwide every year. sixty international experts on multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (mdr-tb) met in washington d.c. and cape town  south africa to consider key mdr-tb trial-related issues  including: standardization of definitions; clinical trial capacity building and; regimens optimized to foster compliance  avoid the emergence of resistance and have clinical relevance for special populations  including children and those co-infected with hiv. underpinning all of this is the generation of a sufficient evidence base to facilitate regulatory approval and improved normative guidance. participants discussed treatment combinations currently being studied in phase 2b and phase 3 trials as well as other promising new regimens and combinations that may be evaluated in the near future. these include regimens designed specifically to enable shorter duration and all-oral treatment as a means of maximizing treatment completion. it is hoped that clear definition of these challenges will facilitate the process of identifying solutions that accelerate progress towards effective  non-toxic treatments that can be programmatically implemented.
733,establishment in culture of pluripotential cells from mouse embryos,pluripotential cells are present in a mouse embryo until at least an early post-implantation stage  as shown by their ability to take part hi the formation of chimaeric animals1 and to form teratocarcinomas2. until now it has not been possible to establish progressively growing cultures of these cells in vitro  and cell lines have only been obtained after teratocarcinoma formation in vivo. we report here the establishment in tissue culture of pluripotent cell lines which have been isolated directly from in vitro cultures of mouse blastocysts. these cells are able to differentiate either in vitro or after innoculation into a mouse as a tumour in vivo. they have a normal karyotype.
735,instability and decay of the primary structure of dna,although dna is the carrier of genetic information  it has limited chemical stability. hydrolysis  oxidation and nonenzymatic methylation of dna occur at significant ratesin vivo  and are counteracted by specific dna repair processes. the spontaneous decay of dna is likely to be a major factor in mutagenesis  carcinogenesis and ageing  and also sets limits for the recovery of dna fragments from fossils.
737,direct conversion of fibroblasts to functional neurons by defined factors,cellular differentiation and lineage commitment are considered to be robust and irreversible processes during development. recent work has shown that mouse and human fibroblasts can be reprogrammed to a pluripotent state with a combination of four transcription factors. this raised the question of whether transcription factors could directly induce other defined somatic cell fates  and not only an undifferentiated state. we hypothesized that combinatorial expression of neural-lineage-specific transcription factors could directly convert fibroblasts into neurons. starting from a pool of nineteen candidate genes  we identified a combination of only three factors  ascl1  brn2 (also called pou3f2) and myt1l  that suffice to rapidly and efficiently convert mouse embryonic and postnatal fibroblasts into functional neurons in vitro. these induced neuronal (in) cells express multiple neuron-specific proteins  generate action potentials and form functional synapses. generation of in cells from non-neural lineages could have important implications for studies of neural development  neurological disease modelling and regenerative medicine.
739,chromatin remodelling at promoters suppresses antisense transcription,chromatin allows the eukaryotic cell to package its dna efficiently. to understand how chromatin structure is controlled across the saccharomyces cerevisiae genome  we have investigated the role of the atp-dependent chromatin remodelling complex isw2 in positioning nucleosomes. we find that isw2 functions adjacent to promoter regions where it repositions nucleosomes at the interface between genic and intergenic sequences. nucleosome repositioning by isw2 is directional and results in increased nucleosome occupancy of the intergenic region. loss of isw2 activity leads to inappropriate transcription  resulting in the generation of both coding and noncoding transcripts. here we show that isw2 repositions nucleosomes to enforce directionality on transcription by preventing transcription initiation from cryptic sites. our analyses reveal how chromatin is organized on a global scale and advance our understanding of how transcription is regulated.
741,conversion of adult pancreatic α-cells to β-cells after extreme β-cell loss,pancreatic insulin-producing beta-cells have a long lifespan  such that in healthy conditions they replicate little during a lifetime. nevertheless  they show increased self-duplication after increased metabolic demand or after injury (that is  beta-cell loss). it is not known whether adult mammals can differentiate (regenerate) new beta-cells after extreme  total beta-cell loss  as in diabetes. this would indicate differentiation from precursors or another heterologous (non-beta-cell) source. here we show beta-cell regeneration in a transgenic model of diphtheria-toxin-induced acute selective near-total beta-cell ablation. if given insulin  the mice survived and showed beta-cell mass augmentation with time. lineage-tracing to label the glucagon-producing alpha-cells before beta-cell ablation tracked large fractions of regenerated beta-cells as deriving from alpha-cells  revealing a previously disregarded degree of pancreatic cell plasticity. such inter-endocrine spontaneous adult cell conversion could be harnessed towards methods of producing beta-cells for diabetes therapies  either in differentiation settings in vitro or in induced regeneration.
743,translational control of intron splicing in eukaryotes,most eukaryotic genes are interrupted by non-coding introns that must be accurately removed from pre-messenger rnas to produce translatable mrnas. splicing is guided locally by short conserved sequences  but genes typically contain many potential splice sites  and the mechanisms specifying the correct sites remain poorly understood. in most organisms  short introns recognized by the intron definition mechanism cannot be efficiently predicted solely on the basis of sequence motifs. in multicellular eukaryotes  long introns are recognized through exon definition and most genes produce multiple mrna variants through alternative splicing. the nonsense-mediated mrna decay (nmd) pathway may further shape the observed sets of variants by selectively degrading those containing premature termination codons  which are frequently produced in mammals. here we show that the tiny introns of the ciliate paramecium tetraurelia are under strong selective pressure to cause premature termination of mrna translation in the event of intron retention  and that the same bias is observed among the short introns of plants  fungi and animals. by knocking down the two p. tetraurelia genes encoding upf1  a protein that is crucial in nmd  we show that the intrinsic efficiency of splicing varies widely among introns and that nmd activity can significantly reduce the fraction of unspliced mrnas. the results suggest that  independently of alternative splicing  species with large intron numbers universally rely on nmd to compensate for suboptimal splicing efficiency and accuracy.
745,alternative lengthening of telomeres mediated by mitotic dna synthesis engages break-induced replication processes.,alternative lengthening of telomeres (alt) is a telomerase-independent telomere maintenance mechanism that occurs in a subset of cancers. by analyzing telomerase-positive cells and their human terc knockout-derived alt human cell lines  we show that alt cells harbor more fragile telomeres representing telomere replication problems. alt-associated replication defects trigger mitotic dna synthesis (midas) at telomeres in a rad52-dependent  but rad51-independent  manner. telomeric midas is a conservative dna synthesis process  potentially mediated by break-induced replication  similar to type ii alt survivors in saccharomyces cerevisiae replication stresses induced by ectopic oncogenic expression of cyclin e  g-quadruplexes  or r-loop formation facilitate the alt pathway and lead to telomere clustering  a hallmark of alt cancers. the timeless/tipin complex suppresses telomere clustering and telomeric midas  whereas the smc5/6 complex promotes them. in summary  alt cells exhibit more telomere replication defects that result in persistent dna damage responses at telomeres  leading to the engagement of telomeric midas (spontaneous mitotic telomere synthesis) that is triggered by dna replication stress  a potential driver of genomic duplications in cancer.
747,small molecule inhibition of the kras–pdeδ interaction impairs oncogenic kras signalling,the kras oncogene product is considered a major target in anticancer drug discovery. however  direct interference with kras signalling has not yet led to clinically useful drugs. correct localization and signalling by farnesylated kras is regulated by the prenyl-binding protein pdeδ  which sustains the spatial organization of kras by facilitating its diffusion in the cytoplasm. here we report that interfering with binding of mammalian pdeδ to kras by means of small molecules provides a novel opportunity to suppress oncogenic ras signalling by altering its localization to endomembranes. biochemical screening and subsequent structure-based hit optimization yielded inhibitors of the kras–pdeδ interaction that selectively bind to the prenyl-binding pocket of pdeδ with nanomolar affinity  inhibit oncogenic ras signalling and suppress in vitro and in vivo proliferation of human pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma cells that are dependent on oncogenic kras. our findings may inspire novel drug discovery efforts aimed at the development of drugs targeting oncogenic ras.
749,exon duplication and divergence in the human preproglucagon gene,glucagon is a 29-amino acid pancreatic hormone which counteracts the blood glucose-lowering action of insulin by stimulating hepatic glycogenolysis and gluconeogenesis1. the structure of the hamster pancreatic glucagon precursor has recently been determined from the sequence of a cloned cdna2. hamster preproglucagon is a 180-amino acid protein which contains five functional regions; a signal or pre-peptide  an nh2-terminal peptide (also called glicentin-related pancreatic peptide  grpp)  glucagon  and two carboxy-terminal glucagon-like peptides (glp-1 and glp-2). the sequences of two non-allelic anglerfish pancreatic glucagon precursors3–5 have also been determined and their organization is similar but not identical to the hamster protein; they lack the polypeptide segment corresponding to hamster glp-2. the presence of three regions possessing internal homology  that is  glucagon  glp-1 and glp-2  within proglucagon  and the absence of glp-2 in the anglerfish precursors suggests that the structure of the preproglucagon gene might provide insight into the evolution of this polyprotein. we have isolated and sequenced the human preproglucagon gene and report here that the organization of the human precursor deduced from this sequence is identical to the hamster protein. the gene contains at least three intervening sequences which divide the protein-coding portion of the gene into four regions corresponding to the signal peptide and part of the nh2-terminal peptide  the remainder of the nh2-terminal peptide and glucagon  glp-1  and glp-2. the data suggest that triplication and subsequent sequence divergence of an exon encoding glucagon or a glucagon-like peptide produced this polyprotein precursor.
751,kap1 controls endogenous retroviruses in embryonic stem cells,more than forty per cent of the mammalian genome is derived from retroelements  of which about one-quarter are endogenous retroviruses (ervs). some are still active  notably in mice the highly polymorphic early transposon (etn)/musd and intracisternal a-type particles (iap). ervs are transcriptionally silenced during early embryogenesis by histone and dna methylation (and reviewed in ref. 7)  although the initiators of this process  which is essential to protect genome integrity  remain largely unknown. kap1 (krab-associated protein 1  also known as tripartite motif-containing protein 28  trim28) represses genes by recruiting the histone methyltransferase setdb1  heterochromatin protein 1 (hp1) and the nurd histone deacetylase complex  but few of its physiological targets are known. two lines of evidence suggest that kap1-mediated repression could contribute to the control of ervs: first  kap1 can trigger permanent gene silencing during early embryogenesis  and second  a kap1 complex silences the retrovirus murine leukaemia virus in embryonic cells. consistent with this hypothesis  here we show that kap1 deletion leads to a marked upregulation of a range of ervs  in particular iap elements  in mouse embryonic stem (es) cells and in early embryos. we further demonstrate that kap1 acts synergistically with dna methylation to silence iap elements  and that it is enriched at the 5′ untranslated region (5′utr) of iap genomes  where kap1 deletion leads to the loss of histone 3 lysine 9 trimethylation (h3k9me3)  a hallmark of kap1-mediated repression. correspondingly  iap 5′utr sequences can impose in cis kap1-dependent repression on a heterologous promoter in es cells. our results establish that kap1 controls endogenous retroelements during early embryonic development.
753,inhibition of pluripotential embryonic stem cell differentiation by purified polypeptides,murine embryonic stem (es) cells are pluripotent cell lines established directly from the early embryo1 2 which can contribute differentiated progeny to all adult tissues  including the germ-cell lineage3  after re-incorporation into the normal embryo. they provide both a cellular vector for the generation of transgenic animals4 and a useful system for the identification of polypeptide factors controlling differentiation processes in early development5. in particular  medium conditioned by buffalo rat liver cells contains a polypeptide factor  es cell differentiation inhibitory activity (dia)  which specifically suppresses the spontaneous differentiation of es cells in vitro  thereby permitting their growth as homogeneous stem cell populations in the absence of heterologous feeder cells6. es cell pluripotentiality  including the ability to give rise to functional gametes  is preserved after prolonged culture in buffalo rat liver media as a source of dia7. here  we report that purified dia is related in structure and function to the recently identified haemopoetic regulatory factors human interleukin for da cells8 9 and leukaemia inhibitory factor10. dia and human interleukin da/leukaemia inhibitory factor have thus been identified as related multifunctional regulatory factors with distinct biological activities in both early embryonic and haemopoetic stem cell systems.
755,rejuvenation of aged progenitor cells by exposure to a young systemic environment,the decline of tissue regenerative potential is a hallmark of ageing and may be due to age-related changes in tissue-specific stem cells. a decline in skeletal muscle stem cell (satellite cell) activity due to a loss of notch signalling results in impaired regeneration of aged muscle. the decline in hepatic progenitor cell proliferation owing to the formation of a complex involving cebp-α and the chromatin remodelling factor brahma (brm) inhibits the regenerative capacity of aged liver. to examine the influence of systemic factors on aged progenitor cells from these tissues  we established parabiotic pairings (that is  a shared circulatory system) between young and old mice (heterochronic parabioses)  exposing old mice to factors present in young serum. notably  heterochronic parabiosis restored the activation of notch signalling as well as the proliferation and regenerative capacity of aged satellite cells. the exposure of satellite cells from old mice to young serum enhanced the expression of the notch ligand (delta)  increased notch activation  and enhanced proliferation in vitro. furthermore  heterochronic parabiosis increased aged hepatocyte proliferation and restored the cebp-α complex to levels seen in young animals. these results suggest that the age-related decline of progenitor cell activity can be modulated by systemic factors that change with age.
757,formation of germ-line chimaeras from embryo-derived teratocarcinoma cell lines,the recent availability in culture of embryo-derived pluripotential cells which exhibit both a normal karyotype and a high differentiative ability1–3 has encouraged us to assess the potential of these cells to form functional germ cells following their incorporation into chimaeric mice. we report here the results of blastocyst injection studies using three independently isolated xy embryo-derived cell lines (ek.cp1  ek.cc1.1 and ekcc1.2) which produce a very high proportion (>50%) of live-born animals that are overtly chimaeric. seven chimaeric male mice  derived from these three lines  have  so far  proved to be functional germ-line chimaeras.
759,identification of a cold receptor reveals a general role for trp channels in thermosensation,the cellular and molecular mechanisms that enable us to sense cold are not well understood. insights into this process have come from the use of pharmacological agents  such as menthol  that elicit a cooling sensation. here we have characterized and cloned a menthol receptor from trigeminal sensory neurons that is also activated by thermal stimuli in the cool to cold range. this cold- and menthol-sensitive receptor  cmr1  is a member of the trp family of excitatory ion channels  and we propose that it functions as a transducer of cold stimuli in the somatosensory system. these findings  together with our previous identification of the heat-sensitive channels vr1 and vrl-1  demonstrate that trp channels detect temperatures over a wide range and are the principal sensors of thermal stimuli in the mammalian peripheral nervous system.
761,role of inscuteable in orienting asymmetric cell divisions in drosophila,drosophila neuroblasts and epithelial cells in the procephalic neurogenic region divide perpendicular to the surface  and segregate the proteins numb and prospero into the basal daughter cell. we demonstrate here that orientation of the mitotic spindle and correct localization of numb and prospero in these cells require the inscuteable gene. moreover  ectopic expression of inscuteable in other epithelial cells leads to spindle reorientation. the inscuteable protein localizes to the apical cell cortex before mitosis  suggesting that inscuteable functions in establishing polarity for asymmetric cell division.
763,bacterial rna and small antiviral compounds activate caspase-1 through cryopyrin/nalp3,missense mutations in the cias1 gene cause three autoinflammatory disorders: familial cold autoinflammatory syndrome  muckle–wells syndrome and neonatal-onset multiple-system inflammatory disease. cryopyrin (also called nalp3)  the product of cias1  is a member of the nod-lrr protein family that has been linked to the activation of intracellular host defence signalling pathways. cryopyrin forms a multi-protein complex termed ‘the inflammasome’  which contains the apoptosis-associated speck-like protein (asc) and caspase-1  and promotes caspase-1 activation and processing of pro-interleukin (il)-1β (ref. 4). here we show the effect of cryopyrin deficiency on inflammasome function and immune responses. cryopyrin and asc are essential for caspase-1 activation and il-1β and il-18 production in response to bacterial rna and the imidazoquinoline compounds r837 and r848. in contrast  secretion of tumour-necrosis factor-α and il-6  as well as activation of nf-κb and mitogen-activated protein kinases (mapks) were unaffected by cryopyrin deficiency. furthermore  we show that toll-like receptors and cryopyrin control the secretion of il-1β and il-18 through different intracellular pathways. these results reveal a critical role for cryopyrin in host defence through bacterial rna-mediated activation of caspase-1  and provide insights regarding the pathogenesis of autoinflammatory syndromes.
765,obesity as a medical problem.,obesity is now so common within the world's population that it is beginning to replace undernutrition and infectious diseases as the most significant contributor to ill health. in particular  obesity is associated with diabetes mellitus  coronary heart disease  certain forms of cancer  and sleep-breathing disorders. obesity is defined by a body-mass index (weight divided by square of the height) of 30 kg m(-2) or greater  but this does not take into account the morbidity and mortality associated with more modest degrees of overweight  nor the detrimental effect of intra-abdominal fat. the global epidemic of obesity results from a combination of genetic susceptibility  increased availability of high-energy foods and decreased requirement for physical activity in modern society. obesity should no longer be regarded simply as a cosmetic problem affecting certain individuals  but an epidemic that threatens global well being.
767,live-cell delamination counterbalances epithelial growth to limit tissue overcrowding,the development and maintenance of an epithelium requires finely balanced rates of growth and cell death. however  the mechanical and biochemical mechanisms that ensure proper feedback control of tissue growth  which when deregulated contribute to tumorigenesis  are poorly understood. here we use the fly notum as a model system to identify a novel process of crowding-induced cell delamination that balances growth to ensure the development of well-ordered cell packing. in crowded regions of the tissue  a proportion of cells undergo a serial loss of cell–cell junctions and a progressive loss of apical area  before being squeezed out by their neighbours. this path of delamination is recapitulated by a simple computational model of epithelial mechanics  in which stochastic cell loss relieves overcrowding as the system tends towards equilibrium. we show that this process of delamination is mechanistically distinct from apoptosis-mediated cell extrusion and precedes the first signs of cell death. overall  this analysis reveals a simple mechanism that buffers epithelia against variations in growth. because live-cell delamination constitutes a mechanistic link between epithelial hyperplasia and cell invasion  this is likely to have important implications for our understanding of the early stages of cancer development.
769,generation of cell polarity in plants links endocytosis  auxin distribution and cell fate decisions,dynamically polarized membrane proteins define different cell boundaries and have an important role in intercellular communication—a vital feature of multicellular development. efflux carriers for the signalling molecule auxin from the pin family are landmarks of cell polarity in plants and have a crucial involvement in auxin distribution-dependent development including embryo patterning  organogenesis and tropisms. polar pin localization determines the direction of intercellular auxin flow  yet the mechanisms generating pin polarity remain unclear. here we identify an endocytosis-dependent mechanism of pin polarity generation and analyse its developmental implications. real-time pin tracking showed that after synthesis  pins are initially delivered to the plasma membrane in a non-polar manner and their polarity is established by subsequent endocytic recycling. interference with pin endocytosis either by auxin or by manipulation of the arabidopsis rab5 gtpase pathway prevents pin polarization. failure of pin polarization transiently alters asymmetric auxin distribution during embryogenesis and increases the local auxin response in apical embryo regions. this results in ectopic expression of auxin pathway-associated root-forming master regulators in embryonic leaves and promotes homeotic transformation of leaves to roots. our results indicate a two-step mechanism for the generation of pin polar localization and the essential role of endocytosis in this process. it also highlights the link between endocytosis-dependent polarity of individual cells and auxin distribution-dependent cell fate establishment for multicellular patterning.
771,targeting of cell-surface β-amyloid precursor protein to lysosomes: alternative processing into amyloid-bearing fragments,progressive cerebral deposition of the amyloid β-peptide is an early and invariant feature of alzheimer's disease. the β-peptide is released by proteolytic cleavages from the β-amyloid precursor protein (βapp)1  a membrane-spanning glycoprotein expressed in most mammalian cells. normal secretion of βapp involves a cleavage in the β-peptide region2-3  releasing the soluble extramembranous portion4 5 and retaining a 10k c-terminal fragment in the membrane6. because this secretory pathway precludes β-amyloid formation  we searched for an alternative proteolytic processing pathway that can generate β-peptide-bearing fragments from full-length β app. incubation of living human endothelial cells with a βapp antibody revealed reinternalization of mature βapp from the cell surface and its targeting to endosomes/lysosomes. after cell-surface biotinylation  full-length biotinylated βapp was recovered inside the cells. purification of lysosomes directly demonstrated the presence of mature βapp and an extensive array of β-peptide-containing proteolytic products. our results define a second processing pathway for βapp and suggest that it may be responsible for generating amyloid-bearing fragments in alzheimer's disease.
773,co-crystal structure of the hnf-3/fork head dna-recognition motif resembles histone h5,the three-dimensional structure of an hnf-3/fork head dna-recognition motif complexed with dna has been determined by x-ray crystallography at 2.5 å resolution. this α/β protein binds b-dna as a monomer  through interactions with the dna backbone and through both direct and water-mediated major and minor groove base contacts  inducing a 13° bend. the transcription factor fold is very similar to the structure of histone h5. in its amino-terminal half  three α-helices adopt a compact structure that presents the third helix to the major groove. the remainder of the protein includes a twisted  antiparallel β-structure and random coil that interacts with the minor groove.
775,haematopoietic stem cells and early lymphoid progenitors occupy distinct bone marrow niches,although haematopoietic stem cells (hscs) are commonly assumed to reside within a specialized microenvironment  or niche  most published experimental manipulations of the hsc niche have affected the function of diverse restricted progenitors. this raises the fundamental question of whether hscs and restricted progenitors reside within distinct  specialized niches or whether they share a common niche. here we assess the physiological sources of the chemokine cxcl12 for hsc and restricted progenitor maintenance. cxcl12(dsred) knock-in mice (dsred-express2 recombined into the cxcl12 locus) showed that cxcl12 was primarily expressed by perivascular stromal cells and  at lower levels  by endothelial cells  osteoblasts and some haematopoietic cells. conditional deletion of cxcl12 from haematopoietic cells or nestin-cre-expressing cells had little or no effect on hscs or restricted progenitors. deletion of cxcl12 from endothelial cells depleted hscs but not myeloerythroid or lymphoid progenitors. deletion of cxcl12 from perivascular stromal cells depleted hscs and certain restricted progenitors and mobilized these cells into circulation. deletion of cxcl12 from osteoblasts depleted certain early lymphoid progenitors but not hscs or myeloerythroid progenitors  and did not mobilize these cells into circulation. different stem and progenitor cells thus reside in distinct cellular niches in bone marrow: hscs occupy a perivascular niche and early lymphoid progenitors occupy an endosteal niche.
777,coordination of rho gtpase activities during cell protrusion,the gtpases rac1  rhoa and cdc42 act together to control cytoskeleton dynamics. recent biosensor studies have shown that all three gtpases are activated at the front of migrating cells  and biochemical evidence suggests that they may regulate one another: cdc42 can activate rac1 (ref. 8)  and rac1 and rhoa are mutually inhibitory. however  their spatiotemporal coordination  at the seconds and single-micrometre dimensions typical of individual protrusion events  remains unknown. here we examine gtpase coordination in mouse embryonic fibroblasts both through simultaneous visualization of two gtpase biosensors and using a 'computational multiplexing' approach capable of defining the relationships between multiple protein activities visualized in separate experiments. we found that rhoa is activated at the cell edge synchronous with edge advancement  whereas cdc42 and rac1 are activated 2 micro-m behind the edge with a delay of 40 s. this indicates that rac1 and rhoa operate antagonistically through spatial separation and precise timing  and that rhoa has a role in the initial events of protrusion  whereas rac1 and cdc42 activate pathways implicated in reinforcement and stabilization of newly expanded protrusions.
779,mesenchymal and haematopoietic stem cells form a unique bone marrow niche,the cellular constituents forming the haematopoietic stem cell (hsc) niche in the bone marrow are unclear  with studies implicating osteoblasts  endothelial and perivascular cells. here we demonstrate that mesenchymal stem cells (mscs)  identified using nestin expression  constitute an essential hsc niche component. nestin+ mscs contain all the bone-marrow colony-forming-unit fibroblastic activity and can be propagated as non-adherent ‘mesenspheres’ that can self-renew and expand in serial transplantations. nestin+ mscs are spatially associated with hscs and adrenergic nerve fibres  and highly express hsc maintenance genes. these genes  and others triggering osteoblastic differentiation  are selectively downregulated during enforced hsc mobilization or β3 adrenoreceptor activation. whereas parathormone administration doubles the number of bone marrow nestin+ cells and favours their osteoblastic differentiation  in vivo nestin+ cell depletion rapidly reduces hsc content in the bone marrow. purified hscs home near nestin+ mscs in the bone marrow of lethally irradiated mice  whereas in vivo nestin+ cell depletion significantly reduces bone marrow homing of haematopoietic progenitors. these results uncover an unprecedented partnership between two distinct somatic stem-cell types and are indicative of a unique niche in the bone marrow made of heterotypic stem-cell pairs.
781,reprogramming of human somatic cells to pluripotency with defined factors,pluripotency pertains to the cells of early embryos that can generate all of the tissues in the organism. embryonic stem cells are embryo-derived cell lines that retain pluripotency and represent invaluable tools for research into the mechanisms of tissue formation. recently  murine fibroblasts have been reprogrammed directly to pluripotency by ectopic expression of four transcription factors (oct4  sox2  klf4 and myc) to yield induced pluripotent stem (ips) cells. using these same factors  we have derived ips cells from fetal  neonatal and adult human primary cells  including dermal fibroblasts isolated from a skin biopsy of a healthy research subject. human ips cells resemble embryonic stem cells in morphology and gene expression and in the capacity to form teratomas in immune-deficient mice. these data demonstrate that defined factors can reprogramme human cells to pluripotency  and establish a method whereby patient-specific cells might be established in culture.
783,circadian clocks in human red blood cells,circadian (∼24 hour) clocks are fundamentally important for coordinated physiology in organisms as diverse as cyanobacteria and humans. all current models of the molecular circadian clockwork in eukaryotic cells are based on transcription-translation feedback loops. non-transcriptional mechanisms in the clockwork have been difficult to study in mammalian systems. we circumvented these problems by developing novel assays using human red blood cells  which have no nucleus (or dna) and therefore cannot perform transcription. our results show that transcription is not required for circadian oscillations in humans  and that non-transcriptional events seem to be sufficient to sustain cellular circadian rhythms. using red blood cells  we found that peroxiredoxins  highly conserved antioxidant proteins  undergo ∼24-hour redox cycles  which persist for many days under constant conditions (that is  in the absence of external cues). moreover  these rhythms are entrainable (that is  tunable by environmental stimuli) and temperature-compensated  both key features of circadian rhythms. we anticipate that our findings will facilitate more sophisticated cellular clock models  highlighting the interdependency of transcriptional and non-transcriptional oscillations in potentially all eukaryotic cells.
785,therapeutic potential of gsk-j4  a histone demethylase kdm6b/jmjd3 inhibitor  for acute myeloid leukemia,purpose acute myeloid leukemia (aml) is a heterogeneous disease with poor outcomes. despite increased evidence shows that dysregulation of histone modification contributes to aml  specific drugs targeting key histone modulators are not applied in the clinical treatment of aml. here  we investigated whether targeting kdm6b  the demethylase of tri-methylated histone h3 lysine 27 (h3k27me3)  has a therapeutic potential for aml. methods a kdm6b-specific inhibitor  gsk-j4  was applied to treat the primary cells from aml patients and aml cell lines in vitro and in vivo. rna-sequencing was performed to reveal the underlying mechanisms of inhibiting kdm6b for the treatment of aml. results here we observed that the mrna expression of kdm6b was up-regulated in aml and positively correlated with poor survival. treatment with gsk-j4 increased the global level of h3k27me3 and reduced the proliferation and colony-forming ability of primary aml cells and aml cell lines. gsk-j4 treatment significantly induced cell apoptosis and cell-cycle arrest in kasumi-1 cells  and displayed a synergistic effect with cytosine arabinoside. notably  injection of gsk-j4 attenuated the disease progression in a human aml xenograft mouse model in vivo. treatment with gsk-j4 predominantly resulted in down-regulation of dna replication and cell-cycle-related pathways  as well as abrogated the expression of critical cancer-promoting hox genes. chip-qpcr validated an increased enrichment of h3k27me3 in the transcription start sites of these hox genes. conclusions in summary  our findings suggest that targeting kdm6b with gsk-j4 has a therapeutic potential for the treatment of aml.
787,drosophila oocyte localization is mediated by differential cadherin-based adhesion.,in a drosophila follicle the oocyte always occupies a posterior position among a group of sixteen germline cells. although the importance of this cell arrangement for the subsequent formation of the anterior-posterior axis of the embryo is well documented  the molecular mechanism responsible for the posterior localization of the oocyte was unknown. here we show that the homophilic adhesion molecule de-cadherin mediates oocyte positioning. during follicle biogenesis  de-cadherin is expressed in germline (including oocyte) and surrounding follicle cells  with the highest concentration of de-cadherin being found at the interface between oocyte and posterior follicle cells. mosaic analysis shows that de-cadherin is required in both germline and follicle cells for correct oocyte localization  indicating that germline-soma interactions may be involved in this process. by analysing the behaviour of the oocyte in follicles with a chimaeric follicular epithelium  we find that the position of the oocyte is determined by the position of de-cadherin-expressing follicle cells  to which the oocyte attaches itself selectively. among the de-cadherin positive follicle cells  the oocyte preferentially contacts those cells that express higher levels of de-cadherin. on the basis of these data  we propose that in wild-type follicles the oocyte competes successfully with its sister germline cells for contact to the posterior follicle cells  a sorting process driven by different concentrations of de-cadherin. this is  to our knowledge  the first in vivo example of a cell-sorting process that depends on differential adhesion mediated by a cadherin.
789,centrosome polarization delivers secretory granules to the immunological synapse,cytotoxic t lymphocytes (ctls) destroy virally infected and tumorigenic cells by releasing the contents of specialized secretory lysosomes—termed ‘lytic granules’—at the immunological synapse formed between the ctl and the target. on contact with the target cell  the microtubule organizing centre of the ctl polarizes towards the target and granules move along microtubules in a minus-end direction towards the polarized microtubule organizing centre. however  the final steps of secretion have remained unclear. here we show that ctls do not require actin or plus-end microtubule motors for secretion  but instead the centrosome moves to and contacts the plasma membrane at the central supramolecular activation cluster of the immunological synapse. actin and iqgap1 are cleared away from the synapse  and granules are delivered directly to the plasma membrane. these data show that ctls use a previously unreported mechanism for delivering secretory granules to the immunological synapse  with granule secretion controlled by centrosome delivery to the plasma membrane.
791,defective tryptophan catabolism underlies inflammation in mouse chronic granulomatous disease,half a century ago  chronic granulomatous disease (cgd) was first described as a disease fatally affecting the ability of children to survive infections. various milestone discoveries have since been made  from an insufficient ability of patients’ leucocytes to kill microbes to the underlying genetic abnormalities. in this inherited disorder  phagocytes lack nadph oxidase activity and do not generate reactive oxygen species  most notably superoxide anion  causing recurrent bacterial and fungal infections. patients with cgd also suffer from chronic inflammatory conditions  most prominently granuloma formation in hollow viscera. the precise mechanisms of the increased microbial pathogenicity have been unclear  and more so the reasons for the exaggerated inflammatory response. here we show that a superoxide-dependent step in tryptophan metabolism along the kynurenine pathway is blocked in cgd mice with lethal pulmonary aspergillosis  leading to unrestrained vγ1+ γδ t-cell reactivity  dominant production of interleukin (il)-17  defective regulatory t-cell activity and acute inflammatory lung injury. although beneficial effects are induced by il-17 neutralization or γδ t-cell contraction  complete cure and reversal of the hyperinflammatory phenotype are achieved by replacement therapy with a natural kynurenine distal to the blockade in the pathway. effective therapy  which includes co-administration of recombinant interferon-γ (ifn-γ)  restores production of downstream immunoactive metabolites and enables the emergence of regulatory vγ4+ γδ and foxp3+ αβ t cells. therefore  paradoxically  the lack of reactive oxygen species contributes to the hyperinflammatory phenotype associated with nadph oxidase deficiencies  through a dysfunctional kynurenine pathway of tryptophan catabolism. yet  this condition can be reverted by reactivating the pathway downstream of the superoxide-dependent step.
793,chromothripsis from dna damage in micronuclei,genome sequencing has uncovered a new mutational phenomenon in cancer and congenital disorders called chromothripsis. chromothripsis is characterized by extensive genomic rearrangements and an oscillating pattern of dna copy number levels  all curiously restricted to one or a few chromosomes. the mechanism for chromothripsis is unknown  but we previously proposed that it could occur through the physical isolation of chromosomes in aberrant nuclear structures called micronuclei. here  using a combination of live cell imaging and single-cell genome sequencing  we demonstrate that micronucleus formation can indeed generate a spectrum of genomic rearrangements  some of which recapitulate all known features of chromothripsis. these events are restricted to the mis-segregated chromosome and occur within one cell division. we demonstrate that the mechanism for chromothripsis can involve the fragmentation and subsequent reassembly of a single chromatid from a micronucleus. collectively  these experiments establish a new mutational process of which chromothripsis is one extreme outcome.
795,molecular basis of rna-dependent rna polymerase ii activity,rna polymerase (pol) ii catalyses dna-dependent rna synthesis during gene transcription. there is  however  evidence that pol ii also possesses rna-dependent rna polymerase (rdrp) activity. pol ii can use a homopolymeric rna template  can extend rna by several nucleotides in the absence of dna  and has been implicated in the replication of the rna genomes of hepatitis delta virus (hdv) and plant viroids. here we show the intrinsic rdrp activity of pol ii with only pure polymerase  an rna template–product scaffold and nucleoside triphosphates (ntps). crystallography reveals the template–product duplex in the site occupied by the dna–rna hybrid during transcription. rdrp activity resides at the active site used during transcription  but it is slower and less processive than dna-dependent activity. rdrp activity is also obtained with part of the hdv antigenome. the complex of transcription factor iis (tfiis) with pol ii can cleave one hdv strand  create a reactive stem-loop in the hybrid site  and extend the new rna 3′ end. short rna stem-loops with a 5′ extension suffice for activity  but their growth to a critical length apparently impairs processivity. the rdrp activity of pol ii provides a missing link in molecular evolution  because it suggests that pol ii evolved from an ancient replicase that duplicated rna genomes.
797,e2f1-3 switch from activators in progenitor cells to repressors in differentiating cells,in the established model of mammalian cell cycle control  the retinoblastoma protein (rb) functions to restrict cells from entering s phase by binding and sequestering e2f activators (e2f1  e2f2 and e2f3)  which are invariably portrayed as the ultimate effectors of a transcriptional program that commit cells to enter and progress through s phase. using a panel of tissue-specific cre-transgenic mice and conditional e2f alleles we examined the effects of e2f1  e2f2 and e2f3 triple deficiency in murine embryonic stem cells  embryos and small intestines. we show that in normal dividing progenitor cells e2f1-3 function as transcriptional activators  but contrary to the current view  are dispensable for cell division and instead are necessary for cell survival. in differentiating cells e2f1-3 function in a complex with rb as repressors to silence e2f targets and facilitate exit from the cell cycle. the inactivation of rb in differentiating cells resulted in a switch of e2f1-3 from repressors to activators  leading to the superactivation of e2f responsive targets and ectopic cell divisions. loss of e2f1-3 completely suppressed these phenotypes caused by rb deficiency. this work contextualizes the activator versus repressor functions of e2f1-3 in vivo  revealing distinct roles in dividing versus differentiating cells and in normal versus cancer-like cell cycles.
799,cyclin a regulates kinetochore-microtubules to promote faithful chromosome segregation,the most conspicuous event in the cell cycle is the alignment of chromosomes in metaphase. chromosome alignment fosters faithful segregation through the formation of bi-oriented attachments of kinetochores to spindle microtubules. notably  numerous kinetochore-microtubule (k-mt) attachment errors are present in early mitosis (prometaphase)  and the persistence of those errors is the leading cause of chromosome mis-segregation in aneuploid human tumour cells that continually mis-segregate whole chromosomes and display chromosomal instability. how robust error correction is achieved in prometaphase to ensure error-free mitosis remains unknown. here we show that k-mt attachments in prometaphase cells are considerably less stable than in metaphase cells. the switch to more stable k-mt attachments in metaphase requires the proteasome-dependent destruction of cyclin a in prometaphase. persistent cyclin a expression prevents k-mt stabilization even in cells with aligned chromosomes. by contrast  k-mts are prematurely stabilized in cyclin-a-deficient cells. consequently  cells lacking cyclin a display higher rates of chromosome mis-segregation. thus  the stability of k-mt attachments increases decisively in a coordinated fashion among all chromosomes as cells transit from prometaphase to metaphase. cyclin a creates a cellular environment that promotes microtubule detachment from kinetochores in prometaphase to ensure efficient error correction and faithful chromosome segregation.
801,a role for mitochondria in nlrp3 inflammasome activation,an inflammatory response initiated by the nlrp3 inflammasome is triggered by a variety of situations of host ‘danger’  including infection and metabolic dysregulation. previous studies suggested that nlrp3 inflammasome activity is negatively regulated by autophagy and positively regulated by reactive oxygen species (ros) derived from an uncharacterized organelle. here we show that mitophagy/autophagy blockade leads to the accumulation of damaged  ros-generating mitochondria  and this in turn activates the nlrp3 inflammasome. resting nlrp3 localizes to endoplasmic reticulum structures  whereas on inflammasome activation both nlrp3 and its adaptor asc redistribute to the perinuclear space where they co-localize with endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondria organelle clusters. notably  both ros generation and inflammasome activation are suppressed when mitochondrial activity is dysregulated by inhibition of the voltage-dependent anion channel. this indicates that nlrp3 inflammasome senses mitochondrial dysfunction and may explain the frequent association of mitochondrial damage with inflammatory diseases.
803,innate immunity induced by composition-dependent rig-i recognition of hepatitis c virus rna,innate immune defences are essential for the control of virus infection and are triggered through host recognition of viral macromolecular motifs known as pathogen-associated molecular patterns (pamps). hepatitis c virus (hcv) is an rna virus that replicates in the liver  and infects 200 million people worldwide. infection is regulated by hepatic immune defences triggered by the cellular rig-i helicase. rig-i binds pamp rna and signals interferon regulatory factor 3 activation to induce the expression of interferon-α/β and antiviral/interferon-stimulated genes (isgs) that limit infection. here we identify the polyuridine motif of the hcv genome 3′ non-translated region and its replication intermediate as the pamp substrate of rig-i  and show that this and similar homopolyuridine or homopolyriboadenine motifs present in the genomes of rna viruses are the chief feature of rig-i recognition and immune triggering in human and murine cells. 5′ terminal triphosphate on the pamp rna was necessary but not sufficient for rig-i binding  which was primarily dependent on homopolymeric ribonucleotide composition  linear structure and length. the hcv pamp rna stimulated rig-i-dependent signalling to induce a hepatic innate immune response in vivo  and triggered interferon and isg expression to suppress hcv infection in vitro. these results provide a conceptual advance by defining specific homopolymeric rna motifs within the genome of hcv and other rna viruses as the pamp substrate of rig-i  and demonstrate immunogenic features of the pamp–rig-i interaction that could be used as an immune adjuvant for vaccine and immunotherapy approaches.
805,induction of human neuronal cells by defined transcription factors,somatic cell nuclear transfer  cell fusion  or expression of lineage-specific factors have been shown to induce cell-fate changes in diverse somatic cell types. we recently observed that forced expression of a combination of three transcription factors  brn2 (also known as pou3f2)  ascl1 and myt1l  can efficiently convert mouse fibroblasts into functional induced neuronal (in) cells. here we show that the same three factors can generate functional neurons from human pluripotent stem cells as early as 6 days after transgene activation. when combined with the basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor neurod1  these factors could also convert fetal and postnatal human fibroblasts into in cells showing typical neuronal morphologies and expressing multiple neuronal markers  even after downregulation of the exogenous transcription factors. importantly  the vast majority of human in cells were able to generate action potentials and many matured to receive synaptic contacts when co-cultured with primary mouse cortical neurons. our data demonstrate that non-neural human somatic cells  as well as pluripotent stem cells  can be converted directly into neurons by lineage-determining transcription factors. these methods may facilitate robust generation of patient-specific human neurons for in vitro disease modelling or future applications in regenerative medicine.
807,replication stress activates dna repair synthesis in mitosis,oncogene-induced dna replication stress has been implicated as a driver of tumorigenesis. many chromosomal rearrangements characteristic of human cancers originate from specific regions of the genome called common fragile sites (cfss). cfss are difficult-to-replicate loci that manifest as gaps or breaks on metaphase chromosomes (termed cfs ‘expression’)  particularly when cells have been exposed to replicative stress. the mus81–eme1 structure-specific endonuclease promotes the appearance of chromosome gaps or breaks at cfss following replicative stress. here we show that entry of cells into mitotic prophase triggers the recruitment of mus81 to cfss. the nuclease activity of mus81 then promotes pold3-dependent dna synthesis at cfss  which serves to minimize chromosome mis-segregation and non-disjunction. we propose that the attempted condensation of incompletely duplicated loci in early mitosis serves as the trigger for completion of dna replication at cfs loci in human cells. given that this pold3-dependent mitotic dna synthesis is enhanced in aneuploid cancer cells that exhibit intrinsically high levels of chromosomal instability (cin+) and replicative stress  we suggest that targeting this pathway could represent a new therapeutic approach.
809,cleavage of gsdmd by inflammatory caspases determines pyroptotic cell death,inflammatory caspases (caspase-1  -4  -5 and -11) are critical for innate defences. caspase-1 is activated by ligands of various canonical inflammasomes  and caspase-4  -5 and -11 directly recognize bacterial lipopolysaccharide  both of which trigger pyroptosis. despite the crucial role in immunity and endotoxic shock  the mechanism for pyroptosis induction by inflammatory caspases is unknown. here we identify gasdermin d (gsdmd) by genome-wide clustered regularly interspaced palindromic repeat (crispr)-cas9 nuclease screens of caspase-11- and caspase-1-mediated pyroptosis in mouse bone marrow macrophages. gsdmd-deficient cells resisted the induction of pyroptosis by cytosolic lipopolysaccharide and known canonical inflammasome ligands. interleukin-1β release was also diminished in gsdmd−/− cells  despite intact processing by caspase-1. caspase-1 and caspase-4/5/11 specifically cleaved the linker between the amino-terminal gasdermin-n and carboxy-terminal gasdermin-c domains in gsdmd  which was required and sufficient for pyroptosis. the cleavage released the intramolecular inhibition on the gasdermin-n domain that showed intrinsic pyroptosis-inducing activity. other gasdermin family members were not cleaved by inflammatory caspases but shared the autoinhibition; gain-of-function mutations in gsdma3 that cause alopecia and skin defects disrupted the autoinhibition  allowing its gasdermin-n domain to trigger pyroptosis. these findings offer insight into inflammasome-mediated immunity/diseases and also change our understanding of pyroptosis and programmed necrosis.
811,metabolic rescue in pluripotent cells from patients with mtdna disease,mitochondria have a major role in energy production via oxidative phosphorylation  which is dependent on the expression of critical genes encoded by mitochondrial (mt)dna. mutations in mtdna can cause fatal or severely debilitating disorders with limited treatment options. clinical manifestations vary based on mutation type and heteroplasmy (that is  the relative levels of mutant and wild-type mtdna within each cell). here we generated genetically corrected pluripotent stem cells (pscs) from patients with mtdna disease. multiple induced pluripotent stem (ips) cell lines were derived from patients with common heteroplasmic mutations including 3243a>g  causing mitochondrial encephalomyopathy and stroke-like episodes (melas)  and 8993t>g and 13513g>a  implicated in leigh syndrome. isogenic melas and leigh syndrome ips cell lines were generated containing exclusively wild-type or mutant mtdna through spontaneous segregation of heteroplasmic mtdna in proliferating fibroblasts. furthermore  somatic cell nuclear transfer (scnt) enabled replacement of mutant mtdna from homoplasmic 8993t>g fibroblasts to generate corrected leigh-nt1 pscs. although leigh-nt1 pscs contained donor oocyte wild-type mtdna (human haplotype d4a) that differed from leigh syndrome patient haplotype (f1a) at a total of 47 nucleotide sites  leigh-nt1 cells displayed transcriptomic profiles similar to those in embryo-derived pscs carrying wild-type mtdna  indicative of normal nuclear-to-mitochondrial interactions. moreover  genetically rescued patient pscs displayed normal metabolic function compared to impaired oxygen consumption and atp production observed in mutant cells. we conclude that both reprogramming approaches offer complementary strategies for derivation of pscs containing exclusively wild-type mtdna  through spontaneous segregation of heteroplasmic mtdna in individual ips cell lines or mitochondrial replacement by scnt in homoplasmic mtdna-based disease.
813,small regulatory rnas inhibit rna polymerase ii during the elongation phase of transcription,eukaryotic cells express a wide variety of endogenous small regulatory rnas that regulate heterochromatin formation  developmental timing  defence against parasitic nucleic acids and genome rearrangement. many small regulatory rnas are thought to function in nuclei. for instance  in plants and fungi  short interfering rna (sirnas) associate with nascent transcripts and direct chromatin and/or dna modifications. to understand further the biological roles of small regulatory rnas  we conducted a genetic screen to identify factors required for rna interference (rnai) in caenorhabditis elegans nuclei. here we show that the gene nuclear rnai defective-2 (nrde-2) encodes an evolutionarily conserved protein that is required for sirna-mediated silencing in nuclei. nrde-2 associates with the argonaute protein nrde-3 within nuclei and is recruited by nrde-3/sirna complexes to nascent transcripts that have been targeted by rnai. we find that nuclear-localized sirnas direct an nrde-2-dependent silencing of pre-messenger rnas (pre-mrnas) 3' to sites of rnai  an nrde-2-dependent accumulation of rna polymerase (rnap) ii at genomic loci targeted by rnai  and nrde-2-dependent decreases in rnap ii occupancy and rnap ii transcriptional activity 3' to sites of rnai. these results define nrde-2 as a component of the nuclear rnai machinery and demonstrate that metazoan sirnas can silence nuclear-localized rnas co-transcriptionally. in addition  these results establish a novel mode of rnap ii regulation: sirna-directed recruitment of nrde factors that inhibit rnap ii during the elongation phase of transcription.
815,calorie restriction extends saccharomyces cerevisiae lifespan by increasing respiration,calorie restriction (cr) extends lifespan in a wide spectrum of organisms and is the only regimen known to lengthen the lifespan of mammals. we established a model of cr in budding yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae. in this system  lifespan can be extended by limiting glucose or by reducing the activity of the glucose-sensing cyclic-amp-dependent kinase (pka). lifespan extension in a mutant with reduced pka activity requires sir2 and nad (nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide). in this study we explore how cr activates sir2 to extend lifespan. here we show that the shunting of carbon metabolism toward the mitochondrial tricarboxylic acid cycle and the concomitant increase in respiration play a central part in this process. we discuss how this metabolic strategy may apply to cr in animals.
817,immunogenicity of induced pluripotent stem cells,induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs)  reprogrammed from somatic cells with defined factors  hold great promise for regenerative medicine as the renewable source of autologous cells. whereas it has been generally assumed that these autologous cells should be immune-tolerated by the recipient from whom the ipscs are derived  their immunogenicity has not been vigorously examined. we show here that  whereas embryonic stem cells (escs) derived from inbred c57bl/6 (b6) mice can efficiently form teratomas in b6 mice without any evident immune rejection  the allogeneic escs from 129/svj mice fail to form teratomas in b6 mice due to rapid rejection by recipients. b6 mouse embryonic fibroblasts (mefs) were reprogrammed into ipscs by either retroviral approach (vipscs) or a novel episomal approach (eipscs) that causes no genomic integration. in contrast to b6 escs  teratomas formed by b6 vipscs were mostly immune-rejected by b6 recipients. in addition  the majority of teratomas formed by b6 eipscs were immunogenic in b6 mice with t cell infiltration  and apparent tissue damage and regression were observed in a small fraction of teratomas. global gene expression analysis of teratomas formed by b6 escs and eipscs revealed a number of genes frequently overexpressed in teratomas derived from eipscs  and several such gene products were shown to contribute directly to the immunogenicity of the b6 eipsc-derived cells in b6 mice. these findings indicate that  in contrast to derivatives of escs  abnormal gene expression in some cells differentiated from ipscs can induce t-cell-dependent immune response in syngeneic recipients. therefore  the immunogenicity of therapeutically valuable cells derived from patient-specific ipscs should be evaluated before any clinic application of these autologous cells into the patients.
819,mical links semaphorins to f-actin disassembly,how instructive cues present on the cell surface have their precise effects on the actin cytoskeleton is poorly understood. semaphorins are one of the largest families of these instructive cues and are widely studied for their effects on cell movement  navigation  angiogenesis  immunology and cancer. semaphorins/collapsins were characterized in part on the basis of their ability to drastically alter actin cytoskeletal dynamics in neuronal processes  but despite considerable progress in the identification of semaphorin receptors and their signalling pathways  the molecules linking them to the precise control of cytoskeletal elements remain unknown. recently  highly unusual proteins of the mical family of enzymes have been found to associate with the cytoplasmic portion of plexins  which are large cell-surface semaphorin receptors  and to mediate axon guidance  synaptogenesis  dendritic pruning and other cell morphological changes. mical enzymes perform reduction–oxidation (redox) enzymatic reactions and also contain domains found in proteins that regulate cell morphology. however  nothing is known of the role of mical or its redox activity in mediating morphological changes. here we report that mical directly links semaphorins and their plexin receptors to the precise control of actin filament (f-actin) dynamics. we found that mical is both necessary and sufficient for semaphorin–plexin-mediated f-actin reorganization in vivo. likewise  we purified mical protein and found that it directly binds f-actin and disassembles both individual and bundled actin filaments. we also found that mical utilizes its redox activity to alter f-actin dynamics in vivo and in vitro  indicating a previously unknown role for specific redox signalling events in actin cytoskeletal regulation. mical therefore is a novel f-actin-disassembly factor that provides a molecular conduit through which actin reorganization—a hallmark of cell morphological changes including axon navigation—can be precisely achieved spatiotemporally in response to semaphorins.
821,functional screening identifies mirnas inducing cardiac regeneration,in mammals  enlargement of the heart during embryonic development is primarily dependent on the increase in cardiomyocyte numbers. shortly after birth  however  cardiomyocytes stop proliferating and further growth of the myocardium occurs through hypertrophic enlargement of the existing myocytes. as a consequence of the minimal renewal of cardiomyocytes during adult life  repair of cardiac damage through myocardial regeneration is very limited. here we show that the exogenous administration of selected micrornas (mirnas) markedly stimulates cardiomyocyte proliferation and promotes cardiac repair. we performed a high-content microscopy  high-throughput functional screening for human mirnas that promoted neonatal cardiomyocyte proliferation using a whole-genome mirna library. forty mirnas strongly increased both dna synthesis and cytokinesis in neonatal mouse and rat cardiomyocytes. two of these mirnas (hsa-mir-590 and hsa-mir-199a) were further selected for testing and were shown to promote cell cycle re-entry of adult cardiomyocytes ex vivo and to promote cardiomyocyte proliferation in both neonatal and adult animals. after myocardial infarction in mice  these mirnas stimulated marked cardiac regeneration and almost complete recovery of cardiac functional parameters. the mirnas identified hold great promise for the treatment of cardiac pathologies consequent to cardiomyocyte loss.
823,a chromatin remodelling complex involved in transcription and dna processing.,the packaging of the eukaryotic genome in chromatin presents barriers that restrict the access of enzymes that process dna. to overcome these barriers  cells possess a number of multi-protein  atp-dependent chromatin remodelling complexes  each containing an atpase subunit from the snf2/swi2 superfamily. chromatin remodelling complexes function by increasing nucleosome mobility and are clearly implicated in transcription. here we have analysed snf2/swi2- and iswi-related proteins to identify remodelling complexes that potentially assist other dna transactions. we purified a complex from saccharomyces cerevisiae that contains the ino80 atpase. the ino80 complex contains about 12 polypeptides including two proteins related to the bacterial ruvb dna helicase  which catalyses branch migration of holliday junctions. the purified complex remodels chromatin  facilitates transcription in vitro and displays 3' to 5' dna helicase activity. mutants of ino80 show hypersensitivity to agents that cause dna damage  in addition to defects in transcription. these results indicate that chromatin remodelling driven by the ino80 atpase may be connected to transcription as well as dna damage repair.
825,ctcf mediates methylation-sensitive enhancer-blocking activity at the h19/igf2 locus.,the insulin-like growth factor 2 (igf2) and h19 genes are imprinted  resulting in silencing of the maternal and paternal alleles  respectively. this event is dependent upon an imprinted-control region two kilobases upstream of h19 (refs 1  2). on the paternal chromosome this element is methylated and required for the silencing of h19 (refs 2-4). on the maternal chromosome the region is unmethylated and required for silencing of the igf2 gene 90 kilobases upstream. we have proposed that the unmethylated imprinted-control region acts as a chromatin boundary that blocks the interaction of igf2 with enhancers that lie 3' of h19 (refs 5  6). this enhancer-blocking activity would then be lost when the region was methylated  thereby allowing expression of igf2 paternally. here we show  using transgenic mice and tissue culture  that the unmethylated imprinted-control regions from mouse and human h19 exhibit enhancer-blocking activity. furthermore  we show that ctcf  a zinc finger protein implicated in vertebrate boundary function  binds to several sites in the unmethylated imprinted-control region that are essential for enhancer blocking. consistent with our model  ctcf binding is abolished by dna methylation. this is the first example  to our knowledge  of a regulated chromatin boundary in vertebrates.
827,disruption of the hepcidin/ferroportin regulatory system causes pulmonary iron overload and restrictive lung disease,emerging evidence suggests that pulmonary iron accumulation is implicated in a spectrum of chronic lung diseases. however  the mechanism(s) involved in pulmonary iron deposition and its role in the in vivo pathogenesis of lung diseases remains unknown. here we show that a point mutation in the murine ferroportin gene  which causes hereditary hemochromatosis type 4 (slc40a1c326s)  increases iron levels in alveolar macrophages  epithelial cells lining the conducting airways and lung parenchyma  and in vascular smooth muscle cells. pulmonary iron overload is associated with oxidative stress  restrictive lung disease with decreased total lung capacity and reduced blood oxygen saturation in homozygous slc40a1c326s/c326s mice compared to wild-type controls. these findings implicate iron in lung pathology  which is so far not considered a classical iron-related disorder.
829,diverse and heritable lineage imprinting of early haematopoietic progenitors,haematopoietic stem cells (hscs) and their subsequent progenitors produce blood cells  but the precise nature and kinetics of this production is a contentious issue. in one model  lymphoid and myeloid production branch after the lymphoid-primed multipotent progenitor (lmpp)  with both branches subsequently producing dendritic cells. however  this model is based mainly on in vitro clonal assays and population-based tracking in vivo  which could miss in vivo single-cell complexity. here we avoid these issues by using a new quantitative version of ‘cellular barcoding’ to trace the in vivo fate of hundreds of lmpps and hscs at the single-cell level. these data demonstrate that lmpps are highly heterogeneous in the cell types that they produce  separating into combinations of lymphoid-  myeloid- and dendritic-cell-biased producers. conversely  although we observe a known lineage bias of some hscs  most cellular output is derived from a small number of hscs that each generates all cell types. crucially  in vivo analysis of the output of sibling cells derived from single lmpps shows that they often share a similar fate  suggesting that the fate of these progenitors was imprinted. furthermore  as this imprinting is also observed for dendritic-cell-biased lmpps  dendritic cells may be considered a distinct lineage on the basis of separate ancestry. these data suggest a ‘graded commitment’ model of haematopoiesis  in which heritable and diverse lineage imprinting occurs earlier than previously thought.
831,direct observation of ligand recognition by t cells,the activation of t cells through interaction of their t-cell receptors with antigenic peptide bound to major histocompatibility complex (mhc) on the surface of antigen presenting cells (apcs) is a crucial step in adaptive immunity. here we use three-dimensional fluorescence microscopy to visualize individual peptide–i-ek class ii mhc complexes labelled with the phycobiliprotein phycoerythrin in an effort to characterize t-cell sensitivity and the requirements for forming an immunological synapse in single cells. we show that t cells expressing the cd4 antigen respond with transient calcium signalling to even a single agonist peptide–mhc ligand  and that the organization of molecules in the contact zone of the t cell and apc takes on the characteristics of an immunological synapse when only about ten agonists are present. this sensitivity is highly dependant on cd4  because blocking this molecule with antibodies renders t cells unable to detect less than about 30 ligands.
833,microbial engineering for the production of advanced biofuels,advanced biofuels produced by microorganisms have similar properties to petroleum-based fuels  and can 'drop in' to the existing transportation infrastructure. however  producing these biofuels in yields high enough to be useful requires the engineering of the microorganism's metabolism. such engineering is not based on just one specific feedstock or host organism. data-driven and synthetic-biology approaches can be used to optimize both the host and pathways to maximize fuel production. despite some success  challenges still need to be met to move advanced biofuels towards commercialization  and to compete with more conventional fuels.
835,nanog safeguards pluripotency and mediates germline development,nanog is a divergent homeodomain protein found in mammalian pluripotent cells and developing germ cells. deletion of nanog causes early embryonic lethality  whereas constitutive expression enables autonomous self-renewal of embryonic stem cells. nanog is accordingly considered a core element of the pluripotent transcriptional network. however  here we report that nanog fluctuates in mouse embryonic stem cells. transient downregulation of nanog appears to predispose cells towards differentiation but does not mark commitment. by genetic deletion we show that  although they are prone to differentiate  embryonic stem cells can self-renew indefinitely in the permanent absence of nanog. expanded nanog null cells colonize embryonic germ layers and exhibit multilineage differentiation both in fetal and adult chimaeras. although they are also recruited to the germ line  primordial germ cells lacking nanog fail to mature on reaching the genital ridge. this defect is rescued by repair of the mutant allele. thus nanog is dispensible for expression of somatic pluripotency but is specifically required for formation of germ cells. nanog therefore acts primarily in construction of inner cell mass and germ cell states rather than in the housekeeping machinery of pluripotency. we surmise that nanog stabilizes embryonic stem cells in culture by resisting or reversing alternative gene expression states.
837,planar cell polarity signalling couples cell division and morphogenesis during neurulation,environmental and genetic aberrations lead to neural tube closure defects (ntds) in 1 out of every 1 000 births. mouse and frog models for these birth defects have indicated that van gogh-like 2 (vangl2  also known as strabismus) and other components of planar cell polarity (pcp) signalling might control neurulation by promoting the convergence of neural progenitors to the midline. here we show a novel role for pcp signalling during neurulation in zebrafish. we demonstrate that non-canonical wnt/pcp signalling polarizes neural progenitors along the anteroposterior axis. this polarity is transiently lost during cell division in the neural keel but is re-established as daughter cells reintegrate into the neuroepithelium. loss of zebrafish vangl2 (in trilobite mutants) abolishes the polarization of neural keel cells  disrupts re-intercalation of daughter cells into the neuroepithelium  and results in ectopic neural progenitor accumulations and ntds. remarkably  blocking cell division leads to rescue of trilobite neural tube morphogenesis despite persistent defects in convergence and extension. these results reveal a function for pcp signalling in coupling cell division and morphogenesis at neurulation and indicate a previously unrecognized mechanism that might underlie ntds.
839,subunit arrangement and phenylethanolamine binding in glun1/glun2b nmda receptors,since it was discovered that the anti-hypertensive agent ifenprodil has neuroprotective activity through its effects on nmda (n-methyl-d-aspartate) receptors  a determined effort has been made to understand the mechanism of action and to develop improved therapeutic compounds on the basis of this knowledge. neurotransmission mediated by nmda receptors is essential for basic brain development and function. these receptors form heteromeric ion channels and become activated after concurrent binding of glycine and glutamate to the glun1 and glun2 subunits  respectively. a functional hallmark of nmda receptors is that their ion-channel activity is allosterically regulated by binding of small compounds to the amino-terminal domain (atd) in a subtype-specific manner. ifenprodil and related phenylethanolamine compounds  which specifically inhibit glun1 and glun2b nmda receptors  have been intensely studied for their potential use in the treatment of various neurological disorders and diseases  including depression  alzheimer's disease and parkinson's disease. despite considerable enthusiasm  mechanisms underlying the recognition of phenylethanolamines and atd-mediated allosteric inhibition remain limited owing to a lack of structural information. here we report that the glun1 and glun2b atds form a heterodimer and that phenylethanolamine binds at the interface between glun1 and glun2b  rather than within the glun2b cleft. the crystal structure of the heterodimer formed between the glun1b atd from xenopus laevis and the glun2b atd from rattus norvegicus shows a highly distinct pattern of subunit arrangement that is different from the arrangements observed in homodimeric non-nmda receptors and reveals the molecular determinants for phenylethanolamine binding. restriction of domain movement in the bi-lobed structure of the glun2b atd  by engineering of an inter-subunit disulphide bond  markedly decreases sensitivity to ifenprodil  indicating that conformational freedom in the glun2b atd is essential for ifenprodil-mediated allosteric inhibition of nmda receptors. these findings pave the way for improving the design of subtype-specific compounds with therapeutic value for neurological disorders and diseases.
841,human cardiovascular progenitor cells develop from a kdr+ embryonic-stem-cell-derived population,the functional heart is comprised of distinct mesoderm-derived lineages including cardiomyocytes  endothelial cells and vascular smooth muscle cells. studies in the mouse embryo and the mouse embryonic stem cell differentiation model have provided evidence indicating that these three lineages develop from a common flk-1+ (kinase insert domain protein receptor  also known as kdr) cardiovascular progenitor that represents one of the earliest stages in mesoderm specification to the cardiovascular lineages. to determine whether a comparable progenitor is present during human cardiogenesis  we analysed the development of the cardiovascular lineages in human embryonic stem cell differentiation cultures. here we show that after induction with combinations of activin a  bone morphogenetic protein 4 (bmp4)  basic fibroblast growth factor (bfgf  also known as fgf2)  vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf  also known as vegfa) and dickkopf homolog 1 (dkk1) in serum-free media  human embryonic-stem-cell-derived embryoid bodies generate a kdrlow/c-kit(cd117)neg population that displays cardiac  endothelial and vascular smooth muscle potential in vitro and  after transplantation  in vivo. when plated in monolayer cultures  these kdrlow/c-kitneg cells differentiate to generate populations consisting of greater than 50% contracting cardiomyocytes. populations derived from the kdrlow/c-kitneg fraction give rise to colonies that contain all three lineages when plated in methylcellulose cultures. results from limiting dilution studies and cell-mixing experiments support the interpretation that these colonies are clones  indicating that they develop from a cardiovascular colony-forming cell. together  these findings identify a human cardiovascular progenitor that defines one of the earliest stages of human cardiac development.
843,escrt-iii recognition by vps4 atpases,the escrt (endosomal sorting complex required for transport) pathway is required for terminal membrane fission events in several important biological processes  including endosomal intraluminal vesicle formation  hiv budding and cytokinesis. vps4 atpases perform a key function in this pathway by recognizing membrane-associated escrt-iii assemblies and catalysing their disassembly  possibly in conjunction with membrane fission. here we show that the microtubule interacting and transport (mit) domains of human vps4a and vps4b bind conserved sequence motifs located at the carboxy termini of the chmp1–3 class of escrt-iii proteins. structures of vps4a mit–chmp1a and vps4b mit–chmp2b complexes reveal that the c-terminal chmp motif forms an amphipathic helix that binds in a groove between the last two helices of the tetratricopeptide-like repeat (tpr) of the vps4 mit domain  but in the opposite orientation to that of a canonical tpr interaction. distinct pockets in the mit domain bind three conserved leucine residues of the chmp motif  and mutations that inhibit these interactions block vps4 recruitment  impair endosomal protein sorting and relieve dominant-negative vps4 inhibition of hiv budding. thus  our studies reveal how the vps4 atpases recognize their chmp substrates to facilitate the membrane fission events required for the release of viruses  endosomal vesicles and daughter cells.
845,lysyl oxidase is essential for hypoxia-induced metastasis,metastasis is a multistep process responsible for most cancer deaths  and it can be influenced by both the immediate microenvironment (cell–cell or cell–matrix interactions) and the extended tumour microenvironment (for example vascularization). hypoxia (low oxygen) is clinically associated with metastasis and poor patient outcome  although the underlying processes remain unclear. microarray studies have shown the expression of lysyl oxidase (lox) to be elevated in hypoxic human tumour cells. paradoxically  lox expression is associated with both tumour suppression and tumour progression  and its role in tumorigenesis seems dependent on cellular location  cell type and transformation status. here we show that lox expression is regulated by hypoxia-inducible factor (hif) and is associated with hypoxia in human breast and head and neck tumours. patients with high lox-expressing tumours have poor distant metastasis-free and overall survivals. inhibition of lox eliminates metastasis in mice with orthotopically grown breast cancer tumours. mechanistically  secreted lox is responsible for the invasive properties of hypoxic human cancer cells through focal adhesion kinase activity and cell to matrix adhesion. furthermore  lox may be required to create a niche permissive for metastatic growth. our findings indicate that lox is essential for hypoxia-induced metastasis and is a good therapeutic target for preventing and treating metastases.
847,anthropometric reference data for international use: recommendations from a world health organization expert committee.,the world health organization (who) convened an expert committee to reevaluate the use of anthropometry at different ages for assessing health  nutrition  and social wellbeing. the committee's task included identifying reference data for anthropometric indexes when appropriate  and providing guidelines on how the data should be used. for fetal growth  the committee recommended an existing sex-specific multiracial reference. in view of the significant technical drawbacks of the current national center for health statistics (nchs)/who reference and its inadequacy for assessing the growth of breast-fed infants  the committee recommended the development of a new reference concerning weight and length/height for infants and children  which will be a complex and costly undertaking. proper interpretation of midupper arm circumference for preschoolers requires age-specific reference data. to evaluate adolescent height-for-age  the committee recommended the current nchs/who reference. use of the nchs body mass index (bmi) data  with their upper percentile elevations and skewness  is undesirable for setting health goals; however  these data were provisionally recommended for defining obesity based on a combination of elevated bmi and high subcutaneous fat. the nchs values were provisionally recommended as reference data for subscapular and triceps skinfold thicknesses. guidelines were also provided for adjusting adolescent anthropometric comparisons for maturational status. currently  there is no need for adult reference data for bmi; interpretation should be based on pragmatic bmi cutoffs. finally  the committee noted that few normative anthropometric data exist for the elderly  especially for those > 80 y of age. proper definitions of health status  function  and biologic age remain to be developed for this group.
849,extracellular vesicles for drug delivery.,extracellular vesicles (evs) are cell-derived membrane vesicles  and represent an endogenous mechanism for intercellular communication. since the discovery that evs are capable of functionally transferring biological information  the potential use of evs as drug delivery vehicles has gained considerable scientific interest. evs may have multiple advantages over currently available drug delivery vehicles  such as their ability to overcome natural barriers  their intrinsic cell targeting properties  and stability in the circulation. however  therapeutic applications of evs as drug delivery systems have been limited due to a lack of methods for scalable ev isolation and efficient drug loading. furthermore  in order to achieve targeted drug delivery  their intrinsic cell targeting properties should be tuned through ev engineering. here  we review and discuss recent progress and remaining challenges in the development of evs as drug delivery vehicles.
851,replication fork stability confers chemoresistance in brca-deficient cells,cells deficient in the brca1 and brca2 genes have reduced capacity to repair dna double-strand breaks by homologous recombination and consequently are hypersensitive to dna-damaging agents  including cisplatin and poly(adp-ribose) polymerase (parp) inhibitors. here we show that loss of the mll3/4 complex protein  ptip  protects brca1/2-deficient cells from dna damage and rescues the lethality of brca2-deficient embryonic stem cells. however  ptip deficiency does not restore homologous recombination activity at double-strand breaks. instead  its absence inhibits the recruitment of the mre11 nuclease to stalled replication forks  which in turn protects nascent dna strands from extensive degradation. more generally  acquisition of parp inhibitors and cisplatin resistance is associated with replication fork protection in brca2-deficient tumour cells that do not develop brca2 reversion mutations. disruption of multiple proteins  including parp1 and chd4  leads to the same end point of replication fork protection  highlighting the complexities by which tumour cells evade chemotherapeutic interventions and acquire drug resistance.
853,cryo-em structures of tau filaments from alzheimer’s disease brain,alzheimer's disease is the most common neurodegenerative disease  and there are no mechanism-based therapies. the disease is defined by the presence of abundant neurofibrillary lesions and neuritic plaques in the cerebral cortex. neurofibrillary lesions comprise paired helical and straight tau filaments  whereas tau filaments with different morphologies characterize other neurodegenerative diseases. no high-resolution structures of tau filaments are available. here we present cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-em) maps at 3.4-3.5 å resolution and corresponding atomic models of paired helical and straight filaments from the brain of an individual with alzheimer's disease. filament cores are made of two identical protofilaments comprising residues 306-378 of tau protein  which adopt a combined cross-β/β-helix structure and define the seed for tau aggregation. paired helical and straight filaments differ in their inter-protofilament packing  showing that they are ultrastructural polymorphs. these findings demonstrate that cryo-em allows atomic characterization of amyloid filaments from patient-derived material  and pave the way for investigation of a range of neurodegenerative diseases.
855,a gp130–src–yap module links inflammation to epithelial regeneration,inflammation promotes regeneration of injured tissues through poorly understood mechanisms  some of which involve interleukin (il)-6 family members  the expression of which is elevated in many diseases including inflammatory bowel diseases and colorectal cancer. here we show in mice and human cells that gp130  a co-receptor for il-6 cytokines  triggers activation of yap and notch  transcriptional regulators that control tissue growth and regeneration  independently of the gp130 effector stat3. through yap and notch  intestinal gp130 signalling stimulates epithelial cell proliferation  causes aberrant differentiation and confers resistance to mucosal erosion. gp130 associates with the related tyrosine kinases src and yes  which are activated on receptor engagement to phosphorylate yap and induce its stabilization and nuclear translocation. this signalling module is strongly activated upon mucosal injury to promote healing and maintain barrier function.
857,divergent reprogramming routes lead to alternative stem-cell states,pluripotency is defined by the ability of a cell to differentiate to the derivatives of all the three embryonic germ layers: ectoderm  mesoderm and endoderm. pluripotent cells can be captured via the archetypal derivation of embryonic stem cells or via somatic cell reprogramming. somatic cells are induced to acquire a pluripotent stem cell (ipsc) state through the forced expression of key transcription factors  and in the mouse these cells can fulfil the strictest of all developmental assays for pluripotent cells by generating completely ipsc-derived embryos and mice. however  it is not known whether there are additional classes of pluripotent cells  or what the spectrum of reprogrammed phenotypes encompasses. here we explore alternative outcomes of somatic reprogramming by fully characterizing reprogrammed cells independent of preconceived definitions of ipsc states. we demonstrate that by maintaining elevated reprogramming factor expression levels  mouse embryonic fibroblasts go through unique epigenetic modifications to arrive at a stable  nanog-positive  alternative pluripotent state. in doing so  we prove that the pluripotent spectrum can encompass multiple  unique cell states.
859,pro-resolving lipid mediators are leads for resolution physiology,advances in our understanding of the mechanisms that bring about the resolution of acute inflammation have uncovered a new genus of pro-resolving lipid mediators that include the lipoxin  resolvin  protectin and maresin families  collectively called specialized pro-resolving mediators. synthetic versions of these mediators have potent bioactions when administered in vivo. in animal experiments  the mediators evoke anti-inflammatory and novel pro-resolving mechanisms  and enhance microbial clearance. although they have been identified in inflammation resolution  specialized pro-resolving mediators are conserved structures that also function in host defence  pain  organ protection and tissue remodelling. this review covers the mechanisms of specialized pro-resolving mediators and omega-3 essential fatty acid pathways that could help us to understand their physiological functions.
861,autocrine bdnf–trkb signalling within a single dendritic spine,brain-derived neurotrophic factor (bdnf) and its receptor trkb are crucial for many forms of neuronal plasticity  including structural long-term potentiation (sltp)  which is a correlate of an animal’s learning. however  it is unknown whether bdnf release and trkb activation occur during sltp  and if so  when and where. here  using a fluorescence resonance energy transfer-based sensor for trkb and two-photon fluorescence lifetime imaging microscopy  we monitor trkb activity in single dendritic spines of ca1 pyramidal neurons in cultured murine hippocampal slices. in response to sltp induction  we find fast (onset < 1 min) and sustained (>20 min) activation of trkb in the stimulated spine that depends on nmdar (n-methyl-d-aspartate receptor) and camkii signalling and on postsynaptically synthesized bdnf. we confirm the presence of postsynaptic bdnf using electron microscopy to localize endogenous bdnf to dendrites and spines of hippocampal ca1 pyramidal neurons. consistent with these findings  we also show rapid  glutamate-uncaging-evoked  time-locked bdnf release from single dendritic spines using bdnf fused to superecliptic phluorin. we demonstrate that this postsynaptic bdnf–trkb signalling pathway is necessary for both structural and functional ltp. together  these findings reveal a spine-autonomous  autocrine signalling mechanism involving nmdar–camkii-dependent bdnf release from stimulated dendritic spines and subsequent trkb activation on these same spines that is crucial for structural and functional plasticity.
863,human oocytes reprogram adult somatic nuclei of a type 1 diabetic to diploid pluripotent stem cells,the transfer of somatic cell nuclei into oocytes can give rise to pluripotent stem cells that are consistently equivalent to embryonic stem cells  holding promise for autologous cell replacement therapy. although methods to induce pluripotent stem cells from somatic cells by transcription factors are widely used in basic research  numerous differences between induced pluripotent stem cells and embryonic stem cells have been reported  potentially affecting their clinical use. because of the therapeutic potential of diploid embryonic stem-cell lines derived from adult cells of diseased human subjects  we have systematically investigated the parameters affecting efficiency of blastocyst development and stem-cell derivation. here we show that improvements to the oocyte activation protocol  including the use of both kinase and translation inhibitors  and cell culture in the presence of histone deacetylase inhibitors  promote development to the blastocyst stage. developmental efficiency varied between oocyte donors  and was inversely related to the number of days of hormonal stimulation required for oocyte maturation  whereas the daily dose of gonadotropin or the total number of metaphase ii oocytes retrieved did not affect developmental outcome. because the use of concentrated sendai virus for cell fusion induced an increase in intracellular calcium concentration  causing premature oocyte activation  we used diluted sendai virus in calcium-free medium. using this modified nuclear transfer protocol  we derived diploid pluripotent stem-cell lines from somatic cells of a newborn and  for the first time  an adult  a female with type 1 diabetes.
865,mesenchymal-endothelial-transition contributes to cardiac neovascularization,endothelial cells contribute to a subset of cardiac fibroblasts by undergoing endothelial-to-mesenchymal transition  but whether cardiac fibroblasts can adopt an endothelial cell fate and directly contribute to neovascularization after cardiac injury is not known. here  using genetic fate map techniques  we demonstrate that cardiac fibroblasts rapidly adopt an endothelial-cell-like phenotype after acute ischaemic cardiac injury. fibroblast-derived endothelial cells exhibit anatomical and functional characteristics of native endothelial cells. we show that the transcription factor p53 regulates such a switch in cardiac fibroblast fate. loss of p53 in cardiac fibroblasts severely decreases the formation of fibroblast-derived endothelial cells  reduces post-infarct vascular density and worsens cardiac function. conversely  stimulation of the p53 pathway in cardiac fibroblasts augments mesenchymal-to-endothelial transition  enhances vascularity and improves cardiac function. these observations demonstrate that mesenchymal-to-endothelial transition contributes to neovascularization of the injured heart and represents a potential therapeutic target for enhancing cardiac repair.
867,cohesin-dependent globules and heterochromatin shape 3d genome architecture in s. pombe,eukaryotic genomes are folded into three-dimensional structures  such as self-associating topological domains  the borders of which are enriched in cohesin and ccctc-binding factor (ctcf) required for long-range interactions. how local chromatin interactions govern higher-order folding of chromatin fibres and the function of cohesin in this process remain poorly understood. here we perform genome-wide chromatin conformation capture (hi-c) analysis to explore the high-resolution organization of the schizosaccharomyces pombe genome  which despite its small size exhibits fundamental features found in other eukaryotes. our analyses of wild-type and mutant strains reveal key elements of chromosome architecture and genome organization. on chromosome arms  small regions of chromatin locally interact to form 'globules'. this feature requires a function of cohesin distinct from its role in sister chromatid cohesion. cohesin is enriched at globule boundaries and its loss causes disruption of local globule structures and global chromosome territories. by contrast  heterochromatin  which loads cohesin at specific sites including pericentromeric and subtelomeric domains  is dispensable for globule formation but nevertheless affects genome organization. we show that heterochromatin mediates chromatin fibre compaction at centromeres and promotes prominent inter-arm interactions within centromere-proximal regions  providing structural constraints crucial for proper genome organization. loss of heterochromatin relaxes constraints on chromosomes  causing an increase in intra- and inter-chromosomal interactions. together  our analyses uncover fundamental genome folding principles that drive higher-order chromosome organization crucial for coordinating nuclear functions.
869,derivation of novel human ground state naive pluripotent stem cells,mouse embryonic stem (es) cells are isolated from the inner cell mass of blastocysts  and can be preserved in vitro in a naive inner-cell-mass-like configuration by providing exogenous stimulation with leukaemia inhibitory factor (lif) and small molecule inhibition of erk1/erk2 and gsk3β signalling (termed 2i/lif conditions). hallmarks of naive pluripotency include driving oct4 (also known as pou5f1) transcription by its distal enhancer  retaining a pre-inactivation x chromosome state  and global reduction in dna methylation and in h3k27me3 repressive chromatin mark deposition on developmental regulatory gene promoters. upon withdrawal of 2i/lif  naive mouse es cells can drift towards a primed pluripotent state resembling that of the post-implantation epiblast. although human es cells share several molecular features with naive mouse es cells  they also share a variety of epigenetic properties with primed murine epiblast stem cells (episcs). these include predominant use of the proximal enhancer element to maintain oct4 expression  pronounced tendency for x chromosome inactivation in most female human es cells  increase in dna methylation and prominent deposition of h3k27me3 and bivalent domain acquisition on lineage regulatory genes. the feasibility of establishing human ground state naive pluripotency in vitro with equivalent molecular and functional features to those characterized in mouse es cells remains to be defined. here we establish defined conditions that facilitate the derivation of genetically unmodified human naive pluripotent stem cells from already established primed human es cells  from somatic cells through induced pluripotent stem (ips) cell reprogramming or directly from blastocysts. the novel naive pluripotent cells validated herein retain molecular characteristics and functional properties that are highly similar to mouse naive es cells  and distinct from conventional primed human pluripotent cells. this includes competence in the generation of cross-species chimaeric mouse embryos that underwent organogenesis following microinjection of human naive ips cells into mouse morulas. collectively  our findings establish new avenues for regenerative medicine  patient-specific ips cell disease modelling and the study of early human development in vitro and in vivo.
871,in vivo genome editing using staphylococcus aureus cas9,the rna-guided endonuclease cas9 has emerged as a versatile genome-editing platform. however  the size of the commonly used cas9 from streptococcus pyogenes (spcas9) limits its utility for basic research and therapeutic applications that use the highly versatile adeno-associated virus (aav) delivery vehicle. here  we characterize six smaller cas9 orthologues and show that cas9 from staphylococcus aureus (sacas9) can edit the genome with efficiencies similar to those of spcas9  while being more than 1 kilobase shorter. we packaged sacas9 and its single guide rna expression cassette into a single aav vector and targeted the cholesterol regulatory gene pcsk9 in the mouse liver. within one week of injection  we observed >40% gene modification  accompanied by significant reductions in serum pcsk9 and total cholesterol levels. we further assess the genome-wide targeting specificity of sacas9 and spcas9 using bless  and demonstrate that sacas9-mediated in vivo genome editing has the potential to be efficient and specific.
873,low methionine ingestion by rats extends life span.,dietary energy restriction has been a widely used means of experimentally extending mammalian life span. we report here that lifelong reduction in the concentration of a single dietary component  the essential amino acid l-methionine  from 0.86 to 0.17% of the diet results in a 30% longer life span of male fischer 344 rats. methionine restriction completely abolished growth  although food intake was actually greater on a body weight basis. studies of energy consumption in early life indicated that the energy intake of 0.17% methionine-fed animals was near normal for animals of their size  although consumption per animal was below that of the much larger 0.86% methionine-fed rats. increasing the energy intake of rats fed 0.17% methionine failed to increase their rate of growth  whereas restricting 0.85% methionine-fed rats to the food intake of 0.17% methionine-fed animals did not materially reduce growth  indicating that food restriction was not a factor in life span extension in these experiments. the biochemically well-defined pathways of methionine metabolism and utilization offer the potential for uncovering the precise mechanism(s) underlying this specific dietary restriction-related extension of life span.
875,an atlas of active enhancers across human cell types and tissues,enhancers control the correct temporal and cell-type-specific activation of gene expression in multicellular eukaryotes. knowing their properties  regulatory activity and targets is crucial to understand the regulation of differentiation and homeostasis. here we use the fantom5 panel of samples  covering the majority of human tissues and cell types  to produce an atlas of active  in vivo-transcribed enhancers. we show that enhancers share properties with cpg-poor messenger rna promoters but produce bidirectional  exosome-sensitive  relatively short unspliced rnas  the generation of which is strongly related to enhancer activity. the atlas is used to compare regulatory programs between different cells at unprecedented depth  to identify disease-associated regulatory single nucleotide polymorphisms  and to classify cell-type-specific and ubiquitous enhancers. we further explore the utility of enhancer redundancy  which explains gene expression strength rather than expression patterns. the online fantom5 enhancer atlas represents a unique resource for studies on cell-type-specific enhancers and gene regulation.
877,transcription initiation complex structures elucidate dna opening,transcription of eukaryotic protein-coding genes begins with assembly of the rna polymerase (pol) ii initiation complex and promoter dna opening. here we report cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-em) structures of yeast initiation complexes containing closed and open dna at resolutions of 8.8 å and 3.6 å  respectively. dna is positioned and retained over the pol ii cleft by a network of interactions between the tata-box-binding protein tbp and transcription factors tfiia  tfiib  tfiie  and tfiif. dna opening occurs around the tip of the pol ii clamp and the tfiie ‘extended winged helix’ domain  and can occur in the absence of tfiih. loading of the dna template strand into the active centre may be facilitated by movements of obstructing protein elements triggered by allosteric binding of the tfiie ‘e-ribbon’ domain. the results suggest a unified model for transcription initiation with a key event  the trapping of open promoter dna by extended protein–protein and protein–dna contacts.
879,radiation and dual checkpoint blockade activates non-redundant immune mechanisms in cancer,immune checkpoint inhibitors result in impressive clinical responses  but optimal results will require combination with each other and other therapies. this raises fundamental questions about mechanisms of non-redundancy and resistance. here we report major tumour regressions in a subset of patients with metastatic melanoma treated with an anti-ctla4 antibody (anti-ctla4) and radiation  and reproduced this effect in mouse models. although combined treatment improved responses in irradiated and unirradiated tumours  resistance was common. unbiased analyses of mice revealed that resistance was due to upregulation of pd-l1 on melanoma cells and associated with t-cell exhaustion. accordingly  optimal response in melanoma and other cancer types requires radiation  anti-ctla4 and anti-pd-l1/pd-1. anti-ctla4 predominantly inhibits t-regulatory cells (treg cells)  thereby increasing the cd8 t-cell to treg (cd8/treg) ratio. radiation enhances the diversity of the t-cell receptor (tcr) repertoire of intratumoral t cells. together  anti-ctla4 promotes expansion of t cells  while radiation shapes the tcr repertoire of the expanded peripheral clones. addition of pd-l1 blockade reverses t-cell exhaustion to mitigate depression in the cd8/treg ratio and further encourages oligoclonal t-cell expansion. similarly to results from mice  patients on our clinical trial with melanoma showing high pd-l1 did not respond to radiation plus anti-ctla4  demonstrated persistent t-cell exhaustion  and rapidly progressed. thus  pd-l1 on melanoma cells allows tumours to escape anti-ctla4-based therapy  and the combination of radiation  anti-ctla4 and anti-pd-l1 promotes response and immunity through distinct mechanisms.
881,role of ghrelin in the relationship between hyperphagia and accelerated gastric emptying in diabetic mice.,background & aims ghrelin is an orexigenic peptide with gastroprokinetic effects. mice with streptozotocin (stz)-induced diabetes exhibit hyperphagia  altered gastric emptying  and increased plasma ghrelin levels. we investigated the causative role of ghrelin herein by comparing changes in ghrelin receptor knockout (growth hormone secretagogue receptor [ghs-r](-/-)) and wild-type (ghs-r(+/+)) mice with stz-induced diabetes. methods gastric emptying was measured with the [(13)c]octanoic acid breath test. the messenger rna (mrna) expression of neuropeptide y (npy)  agouti-related peptide (agrp)  and proopiomelanocortin was quantified by real-time reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction. neural contractions were elicited by electrical field stimulation in fundic smooth muscle strips. results diabetes increased plasma ghrelin levels to a similar extent in both genotypes. hyperphagia was more pronounced in ghs-r(+/+) than in ghs-r(-/-) mice between days 12 and 21. increases in npy and agrp mrna expression were less pronounced in diabetic ghs-r(-/-) than in ghs-r(+/+) mice from day 15 on  whereas decreases in proopiomelanocortin mrna levels were similar in both genotypes. gastric emptying was accelerated to a similar extent in both genotypes  starting on day 16. in fundic smooth muscle strips of diabetic ghs-r(+/+) and ghs-r(-/-) mice  neuronal relaxations were reduced  whereas contractions were increased; this increase was related to an increased affinity of muscarinic and tachykinergic receptors. conclusions diabetic hyperphagia is regulated by central mechanisms in which the ghrelin-signaling pathway affects the expression of npy and agrp in the hypothalamus. the acceleration of gastric emptying  which is not affected by ghrelin signaling  is not the cause of diabetic hyperphagia and probably involves local contractility changes in the fundus.
883,intratumor heterogeneity and branched evolution revealed by multiregion sequencing.,background intratumor heterogeneity may foster tumor evolution and adaptation and hinder personalized-medicine strategies that depend on results from single tumor-biopsy samples. methods to examine intratumor heterogeneity  we performed exome sequencing  chromosome aberration analysis  and ploidy profiling on multiple spatially separated samples obtained from primary renal carcinomas and associated metastatic sites. we characterized the consequences of intratumor heterogeneity using immunohistochemical analysis  mutation functional analysis  and profiling of messenger rna expression. results phylogenetic reconstruction revealed branched evolutionary tumor growth  with 63 to 69% of all somatic mutations not detectable across every tumor region. intratumor heterogeneity was observed for a mutation within an autoinhibitory domain of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mtor) kinase  correlating with s6 and 4ebp phosphorylation in vivo and constitutive activation of mtor kinase activity in vitro. mutational intratumor heterogeneity was seen for multiple tumor-suppressor genes converging on loss of function; setd2  pten  and kdm5c underwent multiple distinct and spatially separated inactivating mutations within a single tumor  suggesting convergent phenotypic evolution. gene-expression signatures of good and poor prognosis were detected in different regions of the same tumor. allelic composition and ploidy profiling analysis revealed extensive intratumor heterogeneity  with 26 of 30 tumor samples from four tumors harboring divergent allelic-imbalance profiles and with ploidy heterogeneity in two of four tumors. conclusions intratumor heterogeneity can lead to underestimation of the tumor genomics landscape portrayed from single tumor-biopsy samples and may present major challenges to personalized-medicine and biomarker development. intratumor heterogeneity  associated with heterogeneous protein function  may foster tumor adaptation and therapeutic failure through darwinian selection. (funded by the medical research council and others.).
885,gamma-tocopherol  the major form of vitamin e in the us diet  deserves more attention.,gamma-tocopherol is the major form of vitamin e in many plant seeds and in the us diet  but has drawn little attention compared with alpha-tocopherol  the predominant form of vitamin e in tissues and the primary form in supplements. however  recent studies indicate that gamma-tocopherol may be important to human health and that it possesses unique features that distinguish it from alpha-tocopherol. gamma-tocopherol appears to be a more effective trap for lipophilic electrophiles than is alpha-tocopherol. gamma-tocopherol is well absorbed and accumulates to a significant degree in some human tissues; it is metabolized  however  largely to 2 7 8-trimethyl-2-(beta-carboxyethyl)-6-hydroxychroman (gamma-cehc)  which is mainly excreted in the urine. gamma-cehc  but not the corresponding metabolite derived from alpha-tocopherol  has natriuretic activity that may be of physiologic importance. both gamma-tocopherol and gamma-cehc  but not alpha-tocopherol  inhibit cyclooxygenase activity and  thus  possess antiinflammatory properties. some human and animal studies indicate that plasma concentrations of gamma-tocopherol are inversely associated with the incidence of cardiovascular disease and prostate cancer. these distinguishing features of gamma-tocopherol and its metabolite suggest that gamma-tocopherol may contribute significantly to human health in ways not recognized previously. this possibility should be further evaluated  especially considering that high doses of alpha-tocopherol deplete plasma and tissue gamma-tocopherol  in contrast with supplementation with gamma-tocopherol  which increases both. we review current information on the bioavailability  metabolism  chemistry  and nonantioxidant activities of gamma-tocopherol and epidemiologic data concerning the relation between gamma-tocopherol and cardiovascular disease and cancer.
887,blood pressure and incidence of twelve cardiovascular diseases: lifetime risks  healthy life-years lost  and age-specific associations in 1·25 million people,background the associations of blood pressure with the different manifestations of incident cardiovascular disease in a contemporary population have not been compared. in this study  we aimed to analyse the associations of blood pressure with 12 different presentations of cardiovascular disease. methods we used linked electronic health records from 1997 to 2010 in the caliber (cardiovascular research using linked bespoke studies and electronic health records) programme to assemble a cohort of 1·25 million patients  30 years of age or older and initially free from cardiovascular disease  a fifth of whom received blood pressure-lowering treatments. we studied the heterogeneity in the age-specific associations of clinically measured blood pressure with 12 acute and chronic cardiovascular diseases  and estimated the lifetime risks (up to 95 years of age) and cardiovascular disease-free life-years lost adjusted for other risk factors at index ages 30  60  and 80 years. this study is registered at clinicaltrials.gov  number nct01164371. findings during 5·2 years median follow-up  we recorded 83 098 initial cardiovascular disease presentations. in each age group  the lowest risk for cardiovascular disease was in people with systolic blood pressure of 90-114 mm hg and diastolic blood pressure of 60-74 mm hg  with no evidence of a j-shaped increased risk at lower blood pressures. the effect of high blood pressure varied by cardiovascular disease endpoint  from strongly positive to no effect. associations with high systolic blood pressure were strongest for intracerebral haemorrhage (hazard ratio 1·44 [95% ci 1·32-1·58])  subarachnoid haemorrhage (1·43 [1·25-1·63])  and stable angina (1·41 [1·36-1·46])  and weakest for abdominal aortic aneurysm (1·08 [1·00-1·17]). compared with diastolic blood pressure  raised systolic blood pressure had a greater effect on angina  myocardial infarction  and peripheral arterial disease  whereas raised diastolic blood pressure had a greater effect on abdominal aortic aneurysm than did raised systolic pressure. pulse pressure associations were inverse for abdominal aortic aneurysm (hr per 10 mm hg 0·91 [95% ci 0·86-0·98]) and strongest for peripheral arterial disease (1·23 [1·20-1·27]). people with hypertension (blood pressure ≥140/90 mm hg or those receiving blood pressure-lowering drugs) had a lifetime risk of overall cardiovascular disease at 30 years of age of 63·3% (95% ci 62·9-63·8) compared with 46·1% (45·5-46·8) for those with normal blood pressure  and developed cardiovascular disease 5·0 years earlier (95% ci 4·8-5·2). stable and unstable angina accounted for most (43%) of the cardiovascular disease-free years of life lost associated with hypertension from index age 30 years  whereas heart failure and stable angina accounted for the largest proportion (19% each) of years of life lost from index age 80 years. interpretation the widely held assumptions that blood pressure has strong associations with the occurrence of all cardiovascular diseases across a wide age range  and that diastolic and systolic associations are concordant  are not supported by the findings of this high-resolution study. despite modern treatments  the lifetime burden of hypertension is substantial. these findings emphasise the need for new blood pressure-lowering strategies  and will help to inform the design of randomised trials to assess them. funding medical research council  national institute for health research  and wellcome trust.
889,effect of supplemental zinc on the growth and serum zinc concentrations of prepubertal children: a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.,background multiple studies have been carried out to assess the effect of zinc supplementation on children's growth. the results of these studies are inconsistent  and the factors responsible for these varied outcomes are unknown. objective meta-analyses of randomized controlled intervention trials were therefore completed to assess the effect of zinc supplementation on the physical growth and serum zinc concentrations of prepubertal children. design a total of 33 acceptable studies with appropriate data were identified by medline (national library of medicine  bethesda  md) searches and other methods. weighted mean effect sizes (expressed in sd units) were calculated for changes in height  weight  weight-for-height  and serum zinc concentration by using random-effects models; factors associated with effect sizes were explored by meta-regression techniques. results zinc supplementation produced highly significant  positive responses in height and weight increments  with effect sizes of 0.350 (95% ci: 0.189  0.511) and 0.309 (0.178  0.439)  respectively. there was no significant effect of zinc on weight-for-height indexes [weighted mean effect size: -0.018 (-0.132  0.097)]. zinc supplementation caused a large increase in the children's serum zinc concentrations  with an effect size of 0.820 (0.499  1.14). growth responses were greater in children with low initial weight-for-age z scores and in those aged >6 mo with low initial height-for-age z scores. conclusions interventions to improve children's zinc nutriture should be considered in populations at risk of zinc deficiency  especially where there are elevated rates of underweight or stunting. the population mean serum zinc concentration is a useful indicator of the successful delivery and absorption of zinc supplements in children.
891,the n-end rule pathway regulates pathogen responses in plants.,to efficiently counteract pathogens  plants rely on a complex set of immune responses that are tightly regulated to allow the timely activation  appropriate duration and adequate amplitude of defense programs. the coordination of the plant immune response is known to require the activity of the ubiquitin/proteasome system  which controls the stability of proteins in eukaryotes. here  we demonstrate that the n-end rule pathway  a subset of the ubiquitin/proteasome system  regulates the defense against a wide range of bacterial and fungal pathogens in the model plant arabidopsis thaliana. we show that this pathway positively regulates the biosynthesis of plant-defense metabolites such as glucosinolates  as well as the biosynthesis and response to the phytohormone jasmonic acid  which plays a key role in plant immunity. our results also suggest that the arginylation branch of the n-end rule pathway regulates the timing and amplitude of the defense program against the model pathogen pseudomonas syringae avrrpm1.
893,risk of gestational hypertension in relation to folic acid supplementation during pregnancy.,the authors investigated the association between folic acid supplementation and gestational hypertension. the study population included women with nonmalformed infants in the united states and canada who were participating in the slone epidemiology center birth defects study between 1993 and 2000. women were interviewed within 6 months after delivery about sociodemographic and medical factors  the occurrence of hypertension with or without preeclampsia  and multivitamin use in pregnancy. relative risks  adjusted for weight  parity  twin pregnancy  diabetes  smoking  education  and family income  were estimated using cox regression models. of 2 100 women  204 (9.7%) reported gestational hypertension (onset after the 20th week of gestation). the multivariate-adjusted relative risk of developing gestational hypertension during the month after folic acid supplementation  compared with not using folic acid during that same month  was 0.55 (95% confidence interval: 0.39  0.79). this finding suggests that folic acid-containing multivitamins may reduce the risk of gestational hypertension.
895,extracellular acidic ph activates the sterol regulatory element-binding protein 2 to promote tumor progression.,conditions of the tumor microenvironment  such as hypoxia and nutrient starvation  play critical roles in cancer progression. however  the role of acidic extracellular ph in cancer progression is not studied as extensively as that of hypoxia. here  we show that extracellular acidic ph (ph 6.8) triggered activation of sterol regulatory element-binding protein 2 (srebp2) by stimulating nuclear translocation and promoter binding to its targets  along with intracellular acidification. interestingly  inhibition of srebp2  but not srebp1  suppressed the upregulation of low ph-induced cholesterol biosynthesis-related genes. moreover  acyl-coa synthetase short-chain family member 2 (acss2)  a direct srebp2 target  provided a growth advantage to cancer cells under acidic ph. furthermore  acidic ph-responsive srebp2 target genes were associated with reduced overall survival of cancer patients. thus  our findings show that srebp2 is a key transcriptional regulator of metabolic genes and progression of cancer cells  partly in response to extracellular acidification.
897,lateral hypothalamic signaling mechanisms underlying feeding stimulation: differential contributions of src family tyrosine kinases to feeding triggered either by nmda injection or by food deprivation,in rats  feeding can be triggered experimentally using many approaches. included among these are (1) food deprivation and (2) acute microinjection of the neurotransmitter l-glutamate (glu) or its receptor agonist nmda into the lateral hypothalamic area (lha). under both paradigms  the nmda receptor (nmda-r) within the lha appears critically involved in transferring signals encoded by glu to stimulate feeding. however  the intracellular mechanisms underlying this signal transfer are unknown. because protein-tyrosine kinases (ptks) participate in nmda-r signaling mechanisms  we determined ptk involvement in lha mechanisms underlying both types of feeding stimulation through food intake and biochemical measurements. lha injections of ptk inhibitors significantly suppressed feeding elicited by lha nmda injection (up to 69%) but only mildly suppressed deprivation feeding (24%)  suggesting that ptks may be less critical for signals underlying this feeding behavior. conversely  food deprivation but not nmda injection produced marked increases in apparent activity for src ptks and in the expression of pyk2  an src-activating ptk. when considered together  the behavioral and biochemical results demonstrate that  although it is easier to suppress nmda-elicited feeding by ptk inhibitors  food deprivation readily drives ptk activity in vivo. the latter result may reflect greater ptk recruitment by neurotransmitter receptors  distinct from the nmda-r  that are activated during deprivation-elicited but not nmda-elicited feeding. these results also demonstrate how the use of only one feeding stimulation paradigm may fail to reveal the true contributions of signaling molecules to pathways underlying feeding behavior in vivo.
899,large-scale profiling reveals the influence of genetic variation on gene expression in human induced pluripotent stem cells.,in this study  we used whole-genome sequencing and gene expression profiling of 215 human induced pluripotent stem cell (ipsc) lines from different donors to identify genetic variants associated with rna expression for 5 746 genes. we were able to predict causal variants for these expression quantitative trait loci (eqtls) that disrupt transcription factor binding and validated a subset of them experimentally. we also identified copy-number variant (cnv) eqtls  including some that appear to affect gene expression by altering the copy number of intergenic regulatory regions. in addition  we were able to identify effects on gene expression of rare genic cnvs and regulatory single-nucleotide variants and found that reactivation of gene expression on the x chromosome depends on gene chromosomal position. our work highlights the value of ipscs for genetic association analyses and provides a unique resource for investigating the genetic regulation of gene expression in pluripotent cells.
901,cardiovascular risk factors in childhood and carotid artery intima-media thickness in adulthood: the cardiovascular risk in young finns study.,context exposure to cardiovascular risk factors during childhood and adolescence may be associated with the development of atherosclerosis later in life. objective to study the relationship between cardiovascular risk factors measured in childhood and adolescence and common carotid artery intima-media thickness (imt)  a marker of preclinical atherosclerosis  measured in adulthood. design  setting  and participants population-based  prospective cohort study conducted at 5 centers in finland among 2229 white adults aged 24 to 39 years who were examined in childhood and adolescence at ages 3 to 18 years in 1980 and reexamined 21 years later  between september 2001 and january 2002. main outcome measures association between cardiovascular risk variables (levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol [ldl-c]  high-density lipoprotein cholesterol [hdl-c]  and triglycerides; ldl-c/hdl-c ratio; systolic and diastolic blood pressure; body mass index; smoking) measured in childhood and adulthood and common carotid artery imt measured in adulthood. results in multivariable models adjusted for age and sex  imt in adulthood was significantly associated with childhood ldl-c levels (p =.001)  systolic blood pressure (p<.001)  body mass index (p =.007)  and smoking (p =.02)  and with adult systolic blood pressure (p<.001)  body mass index (p<.001)  and smoking (p =.004). the number of risk factors measured in 12- to 18-year-old adolescents  including high levels (ie  extreme age- and sex-specific 80th percentile) of ldl-c  systolic blood pressure  body mass index  and cigarette smoking  were directly related to carotid imt measured in young adults at ages 33 through 39 years (p<.001 for both men and women)  and remained significant after adjustment for contemporaneous risk variables. the number of risk factors measured at ages 3 to 9 years demonstrated a weak direct relationship with carotid imt at ages 24 to 30 years in men (p =.02) but not in women (p =.63). conclusions risk factor profile assessed in 12- to 18-year-old adolescents predicts adult common carotid artery imt independently of contemporaneous risk factors. these findings suggest that exposure to cardiovascular risk factors early in life may induce changes in arteries that contribute to the development of atherosclerosis.
903,rictor  a novel binding partner of mtor  defines a rapamycin-insensitive and raptor-independent pathway that regulates the cytoskeleton,the mammalian tor (mtor) pathway integrates nutrient- and growth factor-derived signals to regulate growth  the process whereby cells accumulate mass and increase in size. mtor is a large protein kinase and the target of rapamycin  an immunosuppressant that also blocks vessel restenosis and has potential anticancer applications. mtor interacts with the raptor and gbetal proteins to form a complex that is the target of rapamycin. here  we demonstrate that mtor is also part of a distinct complex defined by the novel protein rictor (rapamycin-insensitive companion of mtor). rictor shares homology with the previously described pianissimo from d. discoidieum  ste20p from s. pombe  and avo3p from s. cerevisiae. interestingly  avo3p is part of a rapamycin-insensitive tor complex that does not contain the yeast homolog of raptor and signals to the actin cytoskeleton through pkc1. consistent with this finding  the rictor-containing mtor complex contains gbetal but not raptor and it neither regulates the mtor effector s6k1 nor is it bound by fkbp12-rapamycin. we find that the rictor-mtor complex modulates the phosphorylation of protein kinase c alpha (pkcalpha) and the actin cytoskeleton  suggesting that this aspect of tor signaling is conserved between yeast and mammals.
905,regulation of the antimicrobial response by nlr proteins.,nucleotide-binding  oligomerization domain (nod)-like receptor (nlr) proteins are a family of innate immune receptors that play a pivotal role in microbial sensing  leading to the initiation of antimicrobial immune responses. dysregulation of the function of multiple nlr family members has been linked  both in mice and humans  to a propensity for infection and autoinflammatory disease. despite our increased understanding of nlr function and interactions  many aspects related to mechanisms of sensing  downstream signaling  and in vivo functions remain elusive. in this review  we focus on key members of the nlr family  describing their activation by diverse microbes  downstream effector functions  and interactions with each other and with other innate sensor protein families. also discussed is the role of microbial sensing by nlr receptors leading to activation of the adaptive immune arm that collaborates in the antimicrobial defense.
907,dna methylation in the human cerebral cortex is dynamically regulated throughout the life span and involves differentiated neurons,the role of dna cytosine methylation  an epigenetic regulator of chromatin structure and function  during normal and pathological brain development and aging remains unclear. here  we examined by methylight pcr the dna methylation status at 50 loci  encompassing primarily 5′ cpg islands of genes related to cns growth and development  in temporal neocortex of 125 subjects ranging in age from 17 weeks of gestation to 104 years old. two psychiatric disease cohorts—defined by chronic neurodegeneration (alzheimer's) or lack thereof (schizophrenia)—were included. a robust and progressive rise in dna methylation levels across the lifespan was observed for 8/50 loci (gabra2  gad1  hoxa1  neurod1  neurod2  pgr  stk11  syk) typically in conjunction with declining levels of the corresponding mrnas. another 16 loci were defined by a sharp rise in dna methylation levels within the first few months or years after birth. disease-associated changes were limited to 2/50 loci in the alzheimer's cohort  which appeared to reflect an acceleration of the age-related change in normal brain. additionally  methylation studies on sorted nuclei provided evidence for bidirectional methylation events in cortical neurons during the transition from childhood to advanced age  as reflected by significant increases at 3  and a decrease at 1 of 10 loci. furthermore  the dnmt3a de novo dna methyl-transferase was expressed across all ages  including a subset of neurons residing in layers iii and v of the mature cortex. therefore  dna methylation is dynamically regulated in the human cerebral cortex throughout the lifespan  involves differentiated neurons  and affects a substantial portion of genes predominantly by an age-related increase.
909,hmg-coa reductase inhibitors and the risk of hip fractures in elderly patients.,context recent animal studies have found that 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme a (hmg-coa) lipid-lowering drugs (statins) substantially increase bone formation  but whether statin use in humans results in clinically meaningful bone formation or a reduction in the risk of osteoporotic fractures is not known. objective to determine whether the use of statins is associated with reduced hip fracture risk. design case-control study. setting and patients a total of 6110 new jersey residents aged 65 years or older and enrolled in medicare and either medicaid or the pharmacy assistance for the aged and disabled program. case patients (n=1222) underwent surgical repair of a hip fracture in 1994. control patients (n=4888) were identified at a ratio of 4:1 and frequency-matched to case patients for age and sex. main outcome measure adjusted odds ratio (or) of hip fracture by statin use in the 180 days and 3 years prior to the index date (the earliest date of admission for surgery)  adjusted for demographic and clinical characteristics and health care utilization. results use of statins in either the prior 180 days (adjusted or  0.50; 95% confidence interval [ci]  0.33-0.76) or prior 3 years (adjusted or  0.57; 95% ci  0.40-0.82) was associated with a significant reduction in the risk of hip fracture  even after controlling for variables such as race  insurance status  psychoactive medications  estrogen and thiazide use  ischemic heart disease  cancer  and diabetes mellitus. no significant relationship was observed between use of nonstatin lipid-lowering agents and hip fracture risk. clear relationships were observed between the degree of reduction in hip fracture risk and the extent of statin use; there was no evidence of such relationships with nonstatin lipid-lowering agents. after adjusting for extent of statin use in the prior 3 years  current use (on the index date) was associated with a 71% reduction in risk (adjusted or  0.29; 95% ci  0.10-0.81). the relationship between statin use and hip fracture risk persisted after controlling for variables such as the number of medications  the charlson comorbidity index score  and hospitalization or nursing home stay in the last 180 days  as well as after excluding patients who were in a nursing home prior to their index date or who died in the year after their index date. use of nonstatin lipid-lowering agents was not observed to be associated with reduction in hip fracture risk in any of these alternative models or analyses. conclusions these findings support an association between statin use by elderly patients and reduction in the risk of hip fracture. controlled trials are needed to exclude the possibility of unmeasured confounders. jama. 2000;283:3211-3216
911,efficacy of beta1 integrin and egfr targeting in sphere-forming human head and neck cancer cells,background resistance to radiotherapy continues to be a limiting factor in the treatment of cancer including head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (hnscc). simultaneous targeting of β1 integrin and egfr was shown to have a higher radiosensitizing potential than mono-targeting in the majority of tested hnscc cancer models. as tumor-initiating cells (tic) are thought to play a key role for therapy resistance and recurrence and can be enriched in sphere forming conditions  this study investigated the efficacy of β1 integrin/egfr targeting without and in combination with x-ray irradiation on the behavior of sphere-forming cells (sfc). methods hnscc cell lines (utscc15  utscc5  cal33  sas) were injected subcutaneously into nude mice for tumor up-take and plated for primary and secondary sphere formation under non-adhesive conditions which is thought to reflect the enrichment of sfc and their self-renewal capacity  respectively. treatment was accomplished by inhibitory antibodies for β1 integrin (aiib2) and egfr (cetuximab) as well as x-ray irradiation (2 - 6 gy single doses). further  flow cytometry for tic marker expression and cell cycling as well as western blotting for dna repair protein expression and phosphorylation were employed. results we found higher primary and secondary sphere forming capacity of sas cells relative to other hnscc cell lines  which was in line with the tumor up-take rates of sas versus utscc15 cells. aiib2 and cetuximab administration had minor cytotoxic and no radiosensitizing effects on sfc. intriguingly  secondary sas spheres  representing the fraction of surviving sfc upon passaging  showed greatly enhanced radiosensitivity compared to primary spheres. intriguingly  neither aiib2 nor cetuximab significantly altered basal sphere forming capacity and radiosensitivity. while an increased accumulation of g0/g1 phase cells was observable in secondary sas spheres  dna double strand break repair indicated no difference on the basis of significantly enhanced atm and chk2 dephosphorylation upon irradiation. conclusions in the hnscc model  sphere-forming conditions select for cells  which are unsusceptible to both anti-β1 integrin and anti-egfr inhibitory antibodies. with regard to primary and secondary sphere formation  our data suggest that both of these sfc fractions express distinct survival strategies independent from β1 integrin and egfr and that future work is warranted to better understand sfc survival and enrichment before and after treatment to untangle the underlying mechanisms for identifying novel  druggable cancer targets in sfc.
913,the challenges of overcoming antibiotic resistance: plant extracts as potential sources of antimicrobial and resistance modifying agents,the problem of antibiotic resistance  which has limited the use of cheap and old antibiotics  has necessitated the need for a continued search for new antimicrobial compounds. understanding the mechanisms of resistance is important in the development of strategies to solving the problem. active efflux of drugs  alteration of target sites and enzymatic degradations are the strategies by which pathogenic bacteria acquire or develop intrinsic resistance to antibiotics. multi-drug resistance (mdr) pumps  capable of recognizing and expelling a variety of structurally unrelated compounds from the bacterial cell and conferring resistance to a wide range of antibiotics have since been characterized in many gram positive and gram negative pathogens like staphylococcus aureus  pseudomonas aeruginosa  escherichia coli and  more recently  in mycobacteria. the ability of some chemical compounds (called mdr inhibitors or resistance modifying agents) to modify the resistance phenotype in bacteria by working synergistically with antibiotics in vitro has since been observed. the search for such compounds which can be combined with antibiotics in the treatment of drug resistant infections may be an alternative to overcoming the problem of resistance in bacteria. crude extracts of medicinal plants stand out as veritable sources of potential resistance modifying agents and the african biosphere promises to be a potential source of such compounds owing to its rich plant species diversity.
915,a phospholipid transfer function of er-mitochondria encounter structure revealed in vitro,as phospholipids are synthesized mainly in the endoplasmic reticulum (er) and mitochondrial inner membranes  how cells properly distribute specific phospholipids to diverse cellular membranes is a crucial problem for maintenance of organelle-specific phospholipid compositions. although the er-mitochondria encounter structure (ermes) was proposed to facilitate phospholipid transfer between the er and mitochondria  such a role of ermes is still controversial and awaits experimental demonstration. here we developed a novel in vitro assay system with isolated yeast membrane fractions to monitor phospholipid exchange between the er and mitochondria. with this system  we found that phospholipid transport between the er and mitochondria relies on membrane intactness  but not energy sources such as atp  gtp or the membrane potential across the mitochondrial inner membrane. we further found that lack of the ermes component impairs the phosphatidylserine transport from the er to mitochondria  but not the phosphatidylethanolamine transport from mitochondria to the er. this in vitro assay system thus offers a powerful tool to analyze the non-vesicular phospholipid transport between the er and mitochondria.
917,gain of toxic apolipoprotein e4 effects in human ipsc-derived neurons is ameliorated by a small-molecule structure corrector,efforts to develop drugs for alzheimer's disease (ad) have shown promise in animal studies  only to fail in human trials  suggesting a pressing need to study ad in human model systems. using human neurons derived from induced pluripotent stem cells that expressed apolipoprotein e4 (apoe4)  a variant of the apoe gene product and the major genetic risk factor for ad  we demonstrated that apoe4-expressing neurons had higher levels of tau phosphorylation  unrelated to their increased production of amyloid-β (aβ) peptides  and that they displayed gabaergic neuron degeneration. apoe4 increased aβ production in human  but not in mouse  neurons. converting apoe4 to apoe3 by gene editing rescued these phenotypes  indicating the specific effects of apoe4. neurons that lacked apoe behaved similarly to those expressing apoe3  and the introduction of apoe4 expression recapitulated the pathological phenotypes  suggesting a gain of toxic effects from apoe4. treatment of apoe4-expressing neurons with a small-molecule structure corrector ameliorated the detrimental effects  thus showing that correcting the pathogenic conformation of apoe4 is a viable therapeutic approach for apoe4-related ad.
919,antibacterial peptide microcin j25 inhibits transcription by binding within and obstructing the rna polymerase secondary channel.,the antibacterial peptide microcin j25 (mccj25) inhibits transcription by bacterial rna polymerase (rnap). biochemical results indicate that inhibition of transcription occurs at the level of ntp uptake or ntp binding by rnap. genetic results indicate that inhibition of transcription requires an extensive determinant  comprising more than 50 amino acid residues  within the rnap secondary channel (also known as the "ntp-uptake channel" or "pore"). biophysical results indicate that inhibition of transcription involves binding of mccj25 within the rnap secondary channel. molecular modeling indicates that binding of mccj25 within the rnap secondary channel obstructs the rnap secondary channel. we conclude that mccj25 inhibits transcription by binding within and obstructing the rnap secondary channel--acting essentially as a "cork in a bottle. " obstruction of the rnap secondary channel represents an attractive target for drug discovery.
921,regulatory principles of pluripotency: from the ground state up.,pluripotency is the remarkable capacity of a single cell to engender all the specialized cell types of an adult organism. this property can be captured indefinitely through derivation of self-renewing embryonic stem cells (escs)  which represent an invaluable platform to investigate cell fate decisions and disease. recent advances have revealed that manipulation of distinct signaling cues can render escs in a uniform "ground state" of pluripotency  which more closely recapitulates the pluripotent naive epiblast. here we discuss the extrinsic and intrinsic regulatory principles that underpin the nature of pluripotency and consider the emerging spectrum of pluripotent states.
923,neuroprotective effects of four phenylethanoid glycosides on h2o2-induced apoptosis on pc12 cells via the nrf2/are pathway,nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (nrf2) is a key transcription factor against oxidative stress and neurodegenerative disorders. phenylethanoid glycosides (phgs; salidroside  acteoside  isoacteoside  and echinacoside) exhibit antioxidant and neuroprotective bioactivities. this study was performed to investigate the neuroprotective effect and molecular mechanism of phgs. phgs pretreatment significantly suppressed h₂o₂-induced cytotoxicity in pc12 cells by triggering the nuclear translocation of nrf2 and reversing the downregulated protein expression of heme oxygenase 1 (ho-1)  nad(p)h quinone oxidoreductase 1 (nqo1)  glutamate cysteine ligase-catalytic subunit (gclc)  and glutamate-cysteine ligase modifier subunit (gclm). nrf2 sirna or ho-1 inhibitor zinc protoporphyrin (znpp) reduced the neuroprotective effect. phgs showed potential interaction with the nrf2 binding site in kelch-like ech-association protein 1 (keap1). this result may support the hypothesis that phgs are activators of nrf2. we demonstrated the potential binding between phgs and the keap1-activated nrf2/are pathway  and that phgs with more glycosides had enhanced effects.
925,survivin is not required for the endomitotic cell cycle of megakaryocytes.,survivin is a member of the chromosome passenger complex  which plays an important role in chromosome alignment  separation  and cytokinesis. although survivin is required for the proliferation and survival of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells  the extent to which it is necessary for endomitosis of megakaryocytes remains controversial. to determine whether survivin is required for polyploidization  we analyzed mice with a megakaryocyte-specific deletion. pf4-cre/survivin(fl/fl) mice harbored normal platelet counts with megakaryocytes that reached ploidy states comparable with those of control littermates. the cd41(+) cells within these animals showed little excision but increased annexin v staining  implying that survivin is required for survival of megakaryocyte progenitors in vivo. in contrast  megakaryocytes in which survivin was excised ex vivo showed robust excision and an increased degree of polyploidization. these results demonstrate that survivin is necessary for survival of megakaryocyte progenitors  but is not required for polyploidization of committed megakaryocytes.
927,incidence and trends of sepsis in us hospitals using clinical vs claims data  2009-2014,importance estimates from claims-based analyses suggest that the incidence of sepsis is increasing and mortality rates from sepsis are decreasing. however  estimates from claims data may lack clinical fidelity and can be affected by changing diagnosis and coding practices over time. objective to estimate the us national incidence of sepsis and trends using detailed clinical data from the electronic health record (ehr) systems of diverse hospitals. design  setting  and population retrospective cohort study of adult patients admitted to 409 academic  community  and federal hospitals from 2009-2014. exposures sepsis was identified using clinical indicators of presumed infection and concurrent acute organ dysfunction  adapting third international consensus definitions for sepsis and septic shock (sepsis-3) criteria for objective and consistent ehr-based surveillance. main outcomes and measures sepsis incidence  outcomes  and trends from 2009-2014 were calculated using regression models and compared with claims-based estimates using international classification of diseases  ninth revision  clinical modification codes for severe sepsis or septic shock. case-finding criteria were validated against sepsis-3 criteria using medical record reviews. results a total of 173 690 sepsis cases (mean age  66.5 [sd  15.5] y; 77 660 [42.4%] women) were identified using clinical criteria among 2 901 019 adults admitted to study hospitals in 2014 (6.0% incidence). of these  26 061 (15.0%) died in the hospital and 10 731 (6.2%) were discharged to hospice. from 2009-2014  sepsis incidence using clinical criteria was stable (+0.6% relative change/y [95% ci  −2.3% to 3.5%]  p = .67) whereas incidence per claims increased (+10.3%/y [95% ci  7.2% to 13.3%]  p < .001). in-hospital mortality using clinical criteria declined (−3.3%/y [95% ci  −5.6% to −1.0%]  p = .004)  but there was no significant change in the combined outcome of death or discharge to hospice (−1.3%/y [95% ci  −3.2% to 0.6%]  p = .19). in contrast  mortality using claims declined significantly (−7.0%/y [95% ci  −8.8% to −5.2%]  p < .001)  as did death or discharge to hospice (−4.5%/y [95% ci  −6.1% to −2.8%]  p < .001). clinical criteria were more sensitive in identifying sepsis than claims (69.7% [95% ci  52.9% to 92.0%] vs 32.3% [95% ci  24.4% to 43.0%]  p < .001)  with comparable positive predictive value (70.4% [95% ci  64.0% to 76.8%] vs 75.2% [95% ci  69.8% to 80.6%]  p = .23). conclusions and relevance in clinical data from 409 hospitals  sepsis was present in 6% of adult hospitalizations  and in contrast to claims-based analyses  neither the incidence of sepsis nor the combined outcome of death or discharge to hospice changed significantly between 2009-2014. the findings also suggest that ehr-based clinical data provide more objective estimates than claims-based data for sepsis surveillance.
929,cryo-em structure of a herpesvirus capsid at 3.1 å,structurally and genetically  human herpesviruses are among the largest and most complex of viruses. using cryo–electron microscopy (cryo-em) with an optimized image reconstruction strategy  we report the herpes simplex virus type 2 (hsv-2) capsid structure at 3.1 angstroms  which is built up of about 3000 proteins organized into three types of hexons (central  peripentonal  and edge)  pentons  and triplexes. both hexons and pentons contain the major capsid protein  vp5; hexons also contain a small capsid protein  vp26; and triplexes comprise vp23 and vp19c. acting as core organizers  vp5 proteins form extensive intermolecular networks  involving multiple disulfide bonds (about 1500 in total) and noncovalent interactions  with vp26 proteins and triplexes that underpin capsid stability and assembly. conformational adaptations of these proteins induced by their microenvironments lead to 46 different conformers that assemble into a massive quasisymmetric shell  exemplifying the structural and functional complexity of hsv.
931,distinct metabolomic signatures are associated with longevity in humans,alterations in metabolism influence lifespan in experimental models  but data in humans are lacking. here we use liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry to quantify 217 plasma metabolites and examine their relation to longevity in a large cohort of men and women followed for up to 20 years. we find that  higher concentrations of the citric acid cycle intermediate  isocitrate  and the bile acid  taurocholate  are associated with lower odds of longevity  defined as attaining 80 years of age. higher concentrations of isocitrate  but not taurocholate  are also associated with worse cardiovascular health at baseline  as well as risk of future cardiovascular disease and death. none of the metabolites identified are associated with cancer risk. our findings suggest that some  but not all  metabolic pathways related to human longevity are linked to the risk of common causes of death.
933,clonal competition in bcrabl-driven leukemia: how transplantations can accelerate clonal conversion,background clonal competition in cancer describes the process in which the progeny of a cell clone supersedes or succumbs to other competing clones due to differences in their functional characteristics  mostly based on subsequently acquired mutations. even though the patterns of those mutations are well explored in many tumors  the dynamical process of clonal selection is underexposed. methods we studied the dynamics of clonal competition in a bcrabl-induced leukemia using a γ-retroviral vector library encoding the oncogene in conjunction with genetic barcodes. to this end  we studied the growth dynamics of transduced cells on the clonal level both in vitro and in vivo in transplanted mice. results while we detected moderate changes in clonal abundancies in vitro  we observed monoclonal leukemias in 6/30 mice after transplantation  which intriguingly were caused by only two different bcrabl clones. to analyze the success of these clones  we applied a mathematical model of hematopoietic tissue maintenance  which indicated that a differential engraftment capacity of these two dominant clones provides a possible explanation of our observations. these findings were further supported by additional transplantation experiments and increased bcrabl transcript levels in both clones. conclusion our findings show that clonal competition is not an absolute process based on mutations  but highly dependent on selection mechanisms in a given environmental context.
935,young adolescents' nutrition assessment on computer (yana-c),objective:to assess the relative validity and acceptability of the computerised 24-h recall ‘young adolescent's nutrition assessment on computer (yana-c)’.design:food and nutrient intakes assessed with yana-c were compared with food records (study 1) and 24-h dietary recall interviews (study 2).main outcome measures:intakes of food groups (fruit  fruit juice  vegetables  potatoes  bread  cereals  milk  cheese  other milk products  soft drinks  diet soft drinks  sugar/sweets  pastry/cookies  savoury snacks  butter/sauces  eggs  fish  meat) and nutrients (energy  carbohydrates  protein  fat  fiber  calcium  vitamin c and iron).subjects and setting:a total of 237 pupils (11–14 y) from two primary and four secondary schools (study 1: n=136; study 2: n=101) in belgium-flanders. results:yana-c proved to agree well with both standard methods in categorizing subjects in consumers and nonconsumers (κstudy 1=0.48–0.92; κstudy 2=0.38–0.90). spearman's correlations for energy and nutrient intakes ranged between 0.44 and 0.79 for study 1 and between 0.44 and 0.86 for study 2. nutrient and energy intakes were in general (excluding calcium) significantly higher in yana-c in comparison with the food record  but not in comparison with the interview (only fiber). statistics used to investigate whether yana-c agreed with the other methods in ranking portions/amounts in consumers only were fair to moderate for most of the food groups (weighted κ study 1=0.11–0.55; study 2=0.04–0.73); amounts in consumers only  were significantly lower in yana-c against both standards for cereals; amounts were significantly higher in yana-c against the food record for milk  soft drinks  sugar/sweets and savoury snacks and against the interview for potatoes. only a few pupils evaluated the program negatively. conclusion:yana-c is a promising method to collect detailed dietary information from young adolescents with relatively low staff resources  useful in many nutrition research applications.
937,diabetes  metabolic syndrome  and breast cancer: a review of the current evidence.,incidences of breast cancer  type 2 diabetes  and metabolic syndrome have increased over the past decades with the obesity epidemic  especially in industrialized countries. insulin resistance  hyperinsulinemia  and changes in the signaling of growth hormones and steroid hormones associated with diabetes may affect the risk of breast cancer. we reviewed epidemiologic studies of the association between type 2 diabetes and risk of breast cancer and the available evidence on the role of hormonal mediators of an association between diabetes and breast cancer. the combined evidence supports a modest association between type 2 diabetes and the risk of breast cancer  which appears to be more consistent among postmenopausal than among premenopausal women. despite many proposed potential pathways  the mechanisms underlying an association between diabetes and breast cancer risk remain unclear  particularly because the 2 diseases share several risk factors  including obesity  a sedentary lifestyle  and possibly intake of saturated fat and refined carbohydrates  that may confound this association. although the metabolic syndrome is closely related to diabetes and embraces additional components that might influence breast cancer risk  the role of the metabolic syndrome in breast carcinogenesis has not been studied and thus remains unknown.
939,atherosclerotic plaque rupture--pathologic basis of plaque stability and instability.,time for primary reveiw 27 days   atherosclerosis continues to be one of the main subjects in pathology research. the intriguing complexity of its pathogenesis as well as the importance of its clinical sequelae provide a rationale for this [1]. a large number of diseases with totally different clinical presentations are basically atherosclerosis related  and among these  myocardial infarction  stroke  abdominal aneurysms and lower limb ischemia determine to a large extent the morbidity and mortality in western style populations. but  despite this broad spectrum of clinical disease  most of the acute manifestations of atherosclerosis share a common pathogenetic feature: rupture of an atherosclerotic plaque [2–4]. plaque disruptions may vary greatly in extent from tiny fissures or erosions of the plaque surface to deep intimal tears which extend into the soft lipid core of lesions; in all these instances  at least some degree of thrombus formation occurs [5  6]. the abdominal aorta is the arterial site most prominently involved in the process of plaque formation  and also of plaque complications. in this large diameter vessel the process of plaque disruption and thrombosis is not ended by luminal occlusion  and may lead to extensive surface ulcerations comprising large areas of the aortic wall  as can be observed in many autopsy cases at older age. apart from the undisputable role of atherosclerosis in abdominal aneurysm formation [7]  mural thrombosis leads to a surprisingly low rate of clinically significant complications in these patients  although cholesterol emboli can be regularly found in their kidneys and skin at autopsy. still  it is presently unclear what impact the various biologically active mediators released from eroded aortic surfaces may have on the human body. in contrast  in small diameter vessels such as coronary arteries  occlusive thrombosis is a frequent and often fatal complication of plaque …   * corresponding author. tel.: +31-20-5665-633; fax: +31-20-914-738; e-mail a.c.vanderwal@amc.uva.nl
941,human cancer cells utilize mitotic dna synthesis to resist replication stress at telomeres regardless of their telomere maintenance mechanism,telomeres resemble common fragile sites (cfss) in that they are difficult-to-replicate and exhibit fragility in mitosis in response to dna replication stress. at cfss  this fragility is associated with a delay in the completion of dna replication until early mitosis  whereupon cells are proposed to switch to a rad52-dependent form of break-induced replication. here  we show that this mitotic dna synthesis (midas) is also a feature of human telomeres. telomeric midas is not restricted to those telomeres displaying overt fragility  and is a feature of a wide range of cell lines irrespective of whether their telomeres are maintained by telomerase or by the alternative lengthening of telomeres (alt) mechanism. midas at telomeres requires rad52  and is mechanistically similar to cfs-associated midas  with the notable exception that telomeric midas does not require the mus81-eme1 endonuclease. we propose a model whereby replication stress initiates a rad52-dependent form of break-induced replication that bypasses a requirement for mus81-eme1 to complete dna synthesis in mitosis.
943,consensus guidelines for the detection of immunogenic cell death.,apoptotic cells have long been considered as intrinsically tolerogenic or unable to elicit immune responses specific for dead cell-associated antigens. however  multiple stimuli can trigger a functionally peculiar type of apoptotic demise that does not go unnoticed by the adaptive arm of the immune system  which we named "immunogenic cell death" (icd). icd is preceded or accompanied by the emission of a series of immunostimulatory damage-associated molecular patterns (damps) in a precise spatiotemporal configuration. several anticancer agents that have been successfully employed in the clinic for decades  including various chemotherapeutics and radiotherapy  can elicit icd. moreover  defects in the components that underlie the capacity of the immune system to perceive cell death as immunogenic negatively influence disease outcome among cancer patients treated with icd inducers. thus  icd has profound clinical and therapeutic implications. unfortunately  the gold-standard approach to detect icd relies on vaccination experiments involving immunocompetent murine models and syngeneic cancer cells  an approach that is incompatible with large screening campaigns. here  we outline strategies conceived to detect surrogate markers of icd in vitro and to screen large chemical libraries for putative icd inducers  based on a high-content  high-throughput platform that we recently developed. such a platform allows for the detection of multiple damps  like cell surface-exposed calreticulin  extracellular atp and high mobility group box 1 (hmgb1)  and/or the processes that underlie their emission  such as endoplasmic reticulum stress  autophagy and necrotic plasma membrane permeabilization. we surmise that this technology will facilitate the development of next-generation anticancer regimens  which kill malignant cells and simultaneously convert them into a cancer-specific therapeutic vaccine.
945,trf2 recruits rtel1 to telomeres in s phase to promote t-loop unwinding,the helicase rtel1 promotes t-loop unwinding and suppresses telomere fragility to maintain the integrity of vertebrate telomeres. an interaction between rtel1 and pcna is important to prevent telomere fragility  but how rtel1 engages with the telomere to promote t-loop unwinding is unclear. here  we establish that the shelterin protein trf2 recruits rtel1 to telomeres in s phase  which is required to prevent catastrophic t-loop processing by structure-specific nucleases. we show that the trf2-rtel1 interaction is mediated by a metal-coordinating c4c4 motif in rtel1  which is compromised by the hoyeraal-hreidarsson syndrome (hhs) mutation  rtel1(r1264h). conversely  we define a trf2(i124d) substitution mutation within the trfh domain of trf2  which eliminates rtel1 binding and phenocopies the rtel1(r1264h) mutation  giving rise to aberrant t-loop excision  telomere length heterogeneity  and loss of the telomere as a circle. these results implicate trf2 in the recruitment of rtel1 to facilitate t-loop disassembly at telomeres in s phase.
947,a tunable diffusion‐consumption mechanism of cytokine propagation enables plasticity in cell‐to‐cell communication in the immune system,&na; immune cells communicate by exchanging cytokines to achieve a context‐appropriate response  but the distances over which such communication happens are not known. here  we used theoretical considerations and experimental models of immune responses in vitro and in vivo to quantify the spatial extent of cytokine communications in dense tissues. we established that competition between cytokine diffusion and consumption generated spatial niches of high cytokine concentrations with sharp boundaries. the size of these self‐assembled niches scaled with the density of cytokine‐consuming cells  a parameter that gets tuned during immune responses. in vivo  we measured interactions on length scales of 80–120 &mgr;m  which resulted in a high degree of cell‐to‐cell variance in cytokine exposure. such heterogeneous distributions of cytokines were a source of non‐genetic cell‐to‐cell variability that is often overlooked in single‐cell studies. our findings thus provide a basis for understanding variability in the patterning of immune responses by diffusible factors. graphical abstract figure. no caption available. highlightscytokine penetration in tissues is governed by a diffusion‐consumption mechanismspherical cytokine niches are generated around cytokine‐producing cellsthe characteristic niche size depends on the density of cytokine consumerscytokine niches are a source of variability in otherwise identical cells &na; cytokine‐mediated communication allows immune cells to achieve a context‐appropriate response  but the distance over which this communication happens is unclear. oyler‐yaniv et al. (2017) show that a simple diffusion‐consumption mechanism quantitatively describes the spatial spread of cytokines in vivo and results in localized niches of high cytokine concentrations that contribute to cell‐to‐cell variability.
949,sodium hydroxide production from seawater desalination brine: process design and energy efficiency.,the ability to increase ph is a crucial need for desalination pretreatment (especially in reverse osmosis) and for other industries  but processes used to raise ph often incur significant emissions and nonrenewable resource use. alternatively  waste brine from desalination can be used to create sodium hydroxide  via appropriate concentration and purification pretreatment steps  for input into the chlor-alkali process. in this work  an efficient process train (with variations) is developed and modeled for sodium hydroxide production from seawater desalination brine using membrane chlor-alkali electrolysis. the integrated system includes nanofiltration  concentration via evaporation or mechanical vapor compression  chemical softening  further ion-exchange softening  dechlorination  and membrane electrolysis. system productivity  component performance  and energy consumption of the naoh production process are highlighted  and their dependencies on electrolyzer outlet conditions and brine recirculation are investigated. the analysis of the process also includes assessment of the energy efficiency of major components  estimation of system operating expense and comparison with similar processes. the brine-to-caustic process is shown to be technically feasible while offering several advantages  that is  the reduced environmental impact of desalination through lessened brine discharge  and the increase in the overall water recovery ratio of the reverse osmosis facility. additionally  best-use conditions are given for producing caustic not only for use within the plant  but also in excess amounts for potential revenue.
951,psychobiological mechanisms underlying the social buffering of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical axis: a review of animal models and human studies across development.,discovering the stress-buffering effects of social relationships has been one of the major findings in psychobiology in the last century. however  an understanding of the underlying neurobiological and psychological mechanisms of this buffering is only beginning to emerge. an important avenue of this research concerns the neurocircuitry that can regulate the activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (hpa) axis. the present review is a translational effort aimed at integrating animal models and human studies of the social regulation of the hpa axis from infancy to adulthood  specifically focusing on the process that has been named social buffering. this process has been noted across species and consists of a dampened hpa axis stress response to threat or challenge that occurs with the presence or assistance of a conspecific. we describe aspects of the relevant underlying neurobiology when enough information exists and expose major gaps in our understanding across all domains of the literatures we aimed to integrate. we provide a working conceptual model focused on the role of oxytocinergic systems and prefrontal neural networks as 2 of the putative biological mediators of this process  and propose that the role of early experiences is critical in shaping later social buffering effects. this synthesis points to both general future directions and specific experiments that need to be conducted to build a more comprehensive model of the hpa social buffering effect across the life span that incorporates multiple levels of analysis: neuroendocrine  behavioral  and social.
953,effective use of pi3k and mek inhibitors to treat mutant k-ras g12d and pik3ca h1047r murine lung cancers,somatic mutations that activate phosphoinositide 3-kinase (pi3k) have been identified in the p110-alpha catalytic subunit (encoded by pik3ca). they are most frequently observed in two hotspots: the helical domain (e545k and e542k) and the kinase domain (h1047r). although the p110-alpha mutants are transforming in vitro  their oncogenic potential has not been assessed in genetically engineered mouse models. furthermore  clinical trials with pi3k inhibitors have recently been initiated  and it is unknown if their efficacy will be restricted to specific  genetically defined malignancies. in this study  we engineered a mouse model of lung adenocarcinomas initiated and maintained by expression of p110-alpha h1047r. treatment of these tumors with nvp-bez235  a dual pan-pi3k and mammalian target of rapamycin (mtor) inhibitor in clinical development  led to marked tumor regression as shown by positron emission tomography-computed tomography  magnetic resonance imaging and microscopic examination. in contrast  mouse lung cancers driven by mutant kras did not substantially respond to single-agent nvp-bez235. however  when nvp-bez235 was combined with a mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (mek) inhibitor  arry-142886  there was marked synergy in shrinking these kras-mutant cancers. these in vivo studies suggest that inhibitors of the pi3k-mtor pathway may be active in cancers with pik3ca mutations and  when combined with mek inhibitors  may effectively treat kras mutated lung cancers.
955,ribosomal dna copy loss and repeat instability in atrx-mutated cancers,atrx (alpha thalassemia/mental retardation x-linked) complexes with daxx to deposit histone variant h3.3 into repetitive heterochromatin. recent genome sequencing studies in cancers have revealed mutations in atrx and their association with alt (alternative lengthening of telomeres) activation. here we report depletion of atrx in mouse es cells leads to selective loss in ribosomal rna gene (rdna) copy number. supporting this  atrx-mutated human alt-positive tumors also show a substantially lower rdna copy than alt-negative tumors. further investigation shows that the rdna copy loss and repeat instability are caused by a disruption in h3.3 deposition and thus a failure in heterochromatin formation at rdna repeats in the absence of atrx. we also find that atrx-depleted cells are reduced in ribosomal rna transcription output and show increased sensitivity to rna polymerase i (pol i) transcription inhibitor cx5461. in addition  human alt-positive cancer cell lines are also more sensitive to cx5461 treatment. our study provides insights into the contribution of atrx loss of function to tumorigenesis through the loss of rdna stability and suggests the therapeutic potential of targeting pol i transcription in alt cancers.
957,membrane estrogen receptor-α levels in mcf-7 breast cancer cells predict camp and proliferation responses,17β-estradiol (e2) can rapidly induce camp production  but the conditions under which these camp levels are best measured and the signaling pathways responsible for the consequent proliferative effects on breast cancer cells are not fully understood. to help resolve these issues  we compared camp mechanistic responses in mcf-7 cell lines selected for low (merlow) and high (merhigh) expression of the membrane form of estrogen receptor (mer)-α  and thus addressed the receptor subform involved in camp signaling. mcf-7 cells were immunopanned and subsequently separated by fluorescence activated cell sorting into merhigh (mer-α-enriched) and merlow (mer-α-depleted) populations. unique (compared with previously reported) incubation conditions at 4°c were found to be optimal for demonstrating e2-induced camp production. time-dependent and dose-dependent effects of e2 on camp production were determined for both cell subpopulations. the effects of forskolin  8-cpt camp  protein kinase a inhibitor (h-89)  and adenylyl cyclase inhibitor (sq 22 536) on e2-induced cell proliferation were assessed using the crystal violet assay. we demonstrated a rapid and transient camp increase after 1 pmol/l e2 stimulation in merhigh cells; at 4°c these responses were much more reliable and robust than at 37°c (the condition most often used). the loss of camp at 37°c was not due to export. 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine (ibmx; 1 mmol/l) only partially preserved camp  suggesting that multiple phosphodiesterases modulate its level. the accumulated camp was consistently much higher in merhigh cells than in merlow cells  implicating mer-α levels in the process. ici172 780 blocked the e2-induced response and 17α-estradiol did not elicit the response  also suggesting activity through an estrogen receptor. e2 dose-dependent camp production  although biphasic in both cell types  was responsive to 50-fold higher e2 concentrations in merhigh cells. proliferation of merlow cells was stimulated over the whole range of e2concentrations  whereas the number of merhigh cells was greatly decreased at concentrations above 1 nmol/l  suggesting that estrogen over-stimulation can lead to cell death  as has previously been reported  and that mer-α participates. e2-mediated activation of adenylyl cyclase and downstream participation of protein kinase a were shown to be involved in these responses. rapid mer-α-mediated nongenomic signaling cascades generate camp and downstream signaling events  which contribute to the regulation of breast cancer cell number.
959,self-reactive b cells in the germinal center reaction.,maintenance of immunological self-tolerance requires lymphocytes carrying self-reactive antigen receptors to be selectively prevented from mounting destructive or inflammatory effector responses. classically  self-tolerance is viewed in terms of the removal  editing  or silencing of b and t cells that have formed self-reactive antigen receptors during their early development. however  b cells activated by foreign antigen can enter germinal centers (gcs)  where they further modify their antigen receptor by somatic hypermutation (shm) of their immunoglobulin genes. the inevitable emergence of activated  self-reactive gc b cells presents a unique challenge to the maintenance of self-tolerance that must be rapidly countered to avoid autoantibody production. here we discuss current knowledge of the mechanisms that enforce b cell self-tolerance  with particular focus on the control of self-reactive gc b cells. we also consider how self-reactive gc b cells can escape self-tolerance to initiate autoantibody production or instead be redeemed via shm and used in productive antibody responses.
961,cryptochromes enabling plants and animals to determine circadian time,cryptochromes are flavin-containing blue light photoreceptors related to photolyases-they are found in both plants and animals and have recently been described for bacteria. in plants  cryptochromes perform a variety of functions including the entrainment of circadian rhythms. they serve a similar role in drosophila and mammals  where the cryptochromes also perform an additional function as an essential component of the circadian clock.
963,mitochondria as sensors and regulators of calcium signalling,during the past two decades calcium (ca2+) accumulation in energized mitochondria has emerged as a biological process of utmost physiological relevance. mitochondrial ca2+ uptake was shown to control intracellular ca2+ signalling  cell metabolism  cell survival and other cell-type specific functions by buffering cytosolic ca2+ levels and regulating mitochondrial effectors. recently  the identity of mitochondrial ca2+ transporters has been revealed  opening new perspectives for investigation and molecular intervention.
965,adipocyte inflammation is essential for healthy adipose tissue expansion and remodeling.,chronic inflammation constitutes an important link between obesity and its pathophysiological sequelae. in contrast to the belief that inflammatory signals exert a fundamentally negative impact on metabolism  we show that proinflammatory signaling in the adipocyte is in fact required for proper adipose tissue remodeling and expansion. three mouse models with an adipose tissue-specific reduction in proinflammatory potential were generated that display a reduced capacity for adipogenesis in vivo  while the differentiation potential is unaltered in vitro. upon high-fat-diet exposure  the expansion of visceral adipose tissue is prominently affected. this is associated with decreased intestinal barrier function  increased hepatic steatosis  and metabolic dysfunction. an impaired local proinflammatory response in the adipocyte leads to increased ectopic lipid accumulation  glucose intolerance  and systemic inflammation. adipose tissue inflammation is therefore an adaptive response that enables safe storage of excess nutrients and contributes to a visceral depot barrier that effectively filters gut-derived endotoxin.
967,cntf reverses obesity-induced insulin resistance by activating skeletal muscle ampk,ciliary neurotrophic factor (cntf) induces weight loss and improves glucose tolerance in humans and rodents. cntf is thought to act centrally by inducing hypothalamic neurogenesis to modulate food intake and peripherally by altering hepatic gene expression  in a manner similar to that of leptin. here  we show that cntf signals through the cntfrα–il-6r–gp130β receptor complex to increase fatty-acid oxidation and reduce insulin resistance in skeletal muscle by activating amp-activated protein kinase (ampk)  independent of signaling through the brain. thus  our findings further show that the antiobesogenic effects of cntf in the periphery result from direct effects on skeletal muscle  and that these peripheral effects are not suppressed by diet-induced or genetic models of obesity  an essential requirement for the therapeutic treatment of obesity-related diseases.
969,pharmacological interventions for smoking cessation: an overview and network meta-analysis.,background smoking is the leading preventable cause of illness and premature death worldwide. some medications have been proven to help people to quit  with three licensed for this purpose in europe and the usa: nicotine replacement therapy (nrt)  bupropion  and varenicline. cytisine (a treatment pharmacologically similar to varenicline) is also licensed for use in russia and some of the former socialist economy countries. other therapies  including nortriptyline  have also been tested for effectiveness. objectives how do nrt  bupropion and varenicline compare with placebo and with each other in achieving long-term abstinence (six months or longer)? how do the remaining treatments compare with placebo in achieving long-term abstinence? how do the risks of adverse and serious adverse events (saes) compare between the treatments  and are there instances where the harms may outweigh the benefits? methods the overview is restricted to cochrane reviews  all of which include randomised trials. participants are usually adult smokers  but we exclude reviews of smoking cessation for pregnant women and in particular disease groups or specific settings. we cover nicotine replacement therapy (nrt)  antidepressants (bupropion and nortriptyline)  nicotine receptor partial agonists (varenicline and cytisine)  anxiolytics  selective type 1 cannabinoid receptor antagonists (rimonabant)  clonidine  lobeline  dianicline  mecamylamine  nicobrevin  opioid antagonists  nicotine vaccines  and silver acetate. our outcome for benefit is continuous or prolonged abstinence at least six months from the start of treatment. our outcome for harms is the incidence of serious adverse events associated with each of the treatments. we searched the cochrane database of systematic reviews (cdsr) in the cochrane library  for any reviews with 'smoking' in the title  abstract or keyword fields. the last search was conducted in november 2012. we assessed methodological quality using a revised version of the amstar scale. for nrt  bupropion and varenicline we conducted network meta-analyses  comparing each with the others and with placebo for benefit  and varenicline and bupropion for risks of serious adverse events. main results we identified 12 treatment-specific reviews. the analyses covered 267 studies  involving 101 804 participants. both nrt and bupropion were superior to placebo (odds ratios (or) 1.84; 95% credible interval (credi) 1.71 to 1.99  and 1.82; 95% credi 1.60 to 2.06 respectively). varenicline increased the odds of quitting compared with placebo (or 2.88; 95% credi 2.40 to 3.47). head-to-head comparisons between bupropion and nrt showed equal efficacy (or 0.99; 95% credi 0.86 to 1.13). varenicline was superior to single forms of nrt (or 1.57; 95% credi 1.29 to 1.91)  and to bupropion (or 1.59; 95% credi 1.29 to 1.96). varenicline was more effective than nicotine patch (or 1.51; 95% credi 1.22 to 1.87)  than nicotine gum (or 1.72; 95% credi 1.38 to 2.13)  and than 'other' nrt (inhaler  spray  tablets  lozenges; or 1.42; 95% credi 1.12 to 1.79)  but was not more effective than combination nrt (or 1.06; 95% credi 0.75 to 1.48). combination nrt also outperformed single formulations. the four categories of nrt performed similarly against each other  apart from 'other' nrt  which was marginally more effective than nrt gum (or 1.21; 95% credi 1.01 to 1.46). cytisine (a nicotine receptor partial agonist) returned positive findings (risk ratio (rr) 3.98; 95% ci 2.01 to 7.87)  without significant adverse events or saes. across the 82 included and excluded bupropion trials  our estimate of six seizures in the bupropion arms versus none in the placebo arms was lower than the expected rate (1:1000)  at about 1:1500. sae meta-analysis of the bupropion studies demonstrated no excess of neuropsychiatric (rr 0.88; 95% ci 0.31 to 2.50) or cardiovascular events (rr 0.77; 95% ci 0.37 to 1.59). sae meta-analysis of 14 varenicline trials found no difference between the varenicline and placebo arms (rr 1.06; 95% ci 0.72 to 1.55)  and subgroup analyses detected no significant excess of neuropsychiatric events (rr 0.53; 95% ci 0.17 to 1.67)  or of cardiac events (rr 1.26; 95% ci 0.62 to 2.56). nortriptyline increased the chances of quitting (rr 2.03; 95% ci 1.48 to 2.78). neither nortriptyline nor bupropion were shown to enhance the effect of nrt compared with nrt alone. clonidine increased the chances of quitting (rr 1.63; 95% ci 1.22 to 2.18)  but this was offset by a dose-dependent rise in adverse events. mecamylamine in combination with nrt may increase the chances of quitting  but the current evidence is inconclusive. other treatments failed to demonstrate a benefit compared with placebo. nicotine vaccines are not yet licensed for use as an aid to smoking cessation or relapse prevention. nicobrevin's uk license is now revoked  and the manufacturers of rimonabant  taranabant and dianicline are no longer supporting the development or testing of these treatments. authors' conclusions nrt  bupropion  varenicline and cytisine have been shown to improve the chances of quitting. combination nrt and varenicline are equally effective as quitting aids. nortriptyline also improves the chances of quitting. on current evidence  none of the treatments appear to have an incidence of adverse events that would mitigate their use. further research is warranted into the safety of varenicline and into cytisine's potential as an effective and affordable treatment  but not into the efficacy and safety of nrt.
971,epha3 maintains tumorigenicity and is a therapeutic target in glioblastoma multiforme.,significant endeavor has been applied to identify functional therapeutic targets in glioblastoma (gbm) to halt the growth of this aggressive cancer. we show that the receptor tyrosine kinase epha3 is frequently overexpressed in gbm and  in particular  in the most aggressive mesenchymal subtype. importantly  epha3 is highly expressed on the tumor-initiating cell population in glioma and appears critically involved in maintaining tumor cells in a less differentiated state by modulating mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling. epha3 knockdown or depletion of epha3-positive tumor cells reduced tumorigenic potential to a degree comparable to treatment with a therapeutic radiolabelled epha3-specific monoclonal antibody. these results identify epha3 as a functional  targetable receptor in gbm.
973,extended-connectivity fingerprints.,extended-connectivity fingerprints (ecfps) are a novel class of topological fingerprints for molecular characterization. historically  topological fingerprints were developed for substructure and similarity searching. ecfps were developed specifically for structure-activity modeling. ecfps are circular fingerprints with a number of useful qualities: they can be very rapidly calculated; they are not predefined and can represent an essentially infinite number of different molecular features (including stereochemical information); their features represent the presence of particular substructures  allowing easier interpretation of analysis results; and the ecfp algorithm can be tailored to generate different types of circular fingerprints  optimized for different uses. while the use of ecfps has been widely adopted and validated  a description of their implementation has not previously been presented in the literature.
975,molecular model of the human 26s proteasome.,the 26s proteasome plays a fundamental role in eukaryotic homeostasis by undertaking the highly controlled degradation of a wide range of proteins  including key cellular regulators such as those controlling cell-cycle progression and apoptosis. here we report the structure of the human 26s proteasome determined by cryo-electron microscopy and single-particle analysis  with secondary structure elements identified both in the 20s proteolytic core region and in the 19s regulatory particle. we have used this information together with crystal structures  homology models  and other biochemical information to construct a molecular model of the complete 26s proteasome. this model allows for a detailed description of the 20s core within the 26s proteasome and redefines the overall assignment of subunits within the 19s regulatory particle. the information presented here provides a strong basis for a mechanistic understanding of the 26s proteasome.
977,cost-effectiveness of options for the diagnosis of high blood pressure in primary care: a modelling study.,background the diagnosis of hypertension has traditionally been based on blood-pressure measurements in the clinic  but home and ambulatory measurements better correlate with cardiovascular outcome  and ambulatory monitoring is more accurate than both clinic and home monitoring in diagnosing hypertension. we aimed to compare the cost-effectiveness of different diagnostic strategies for hypertension. methods we did a markov model-based probabilistic cost-effectiveness analysis. we used a hypothetical primary-care population aged 40 years or older with a screening blood-pressure measurement greater than 140/90 mm hg and risk-factor prevalence equivalent to the general population. we compared three diagnostic strategies-further blood pressure measurement in the clinic  at home  and with an ambulatory monitor-in terms of lifetime costs  quality-adjusted life years  and cost-effectiveness. findings ambulatory monitoring was the most cost-effective strategy for the diagnosis of hypertension for men and women of all ages. it was cost-saving for all groups (from -£56 [95% ci -105 to -10] in men aged 75 years to -£323 [-389 to -222] in women aged 40 years) and resulted in more quality-adjusted life years for men and women older than 50 years (from 0·006 [0·000 to 0·015] for women aged 60 years to 0·022 [0·012 to 0·035] for men aged 70 years). this finding was robust when assessed with a wide range of deterministic sensitivity analyses around the base case  but was sensitive if home monitoring was judged to have equal test performance to ambulatory monitoring or if treatment was judged effective irrespective of whether an individual was hypertensive. interpretation ambulatory monitoring as a diagnostic strategy for hypertension after an initial raised reading in the clinic would reduce misdiagnosis and save costs. additional costs from ambulatory monitoring are counterbalanced by cost savings from better targeted treatment. ambulatory monitoring is recommended for most patients before the start of antihypertensive drugs. funding national institute for health research and the national institute for health and clinical excellence.
979,focal adhesion kinase links mechanical force to skin fibrosis via inflammatory signaling,exuberant fibroproliferation is a common complication after injury for reasons that are not well understood. one key component of wound repair that is often overlooked is mechanical force  which regulates cell-matrix interactions through intracellular focal adhesion components  including focal adhesion kinase (fak). here we report that fak is activated after cutaneous injury and that this process is potentiated by mechanical loading. fibroblast-specific fak knockout mice have substantially less inflammation and fibrosis than control mice in a model of hypertrophic scar formation. we show that fak acts through extracellular-related kinase (erk) to mechanically trigger the secretion of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (mcp-1  also known as ccl2)  a potent chemokine that is linked to human fibrotic disorders. similarly  mcp-1 knockout mice form minimal scars  indicating that inflammatory chemokine pathways are a major mechanism by which fak mechanotransduction induces fibrosis. small-molecule inhibition of fak blocks these effects in human cells and reduces scar formation in vivo through attenuated mcp-1 signaling and inflammatory cell recruitment. these findings collectively indicate that physical force regulates fibrosis through inflammatory fak–erk–mcp-1 pathways and that molecular strategies targeting fak can effectively uncouple mechanical force from pathologic scar formation.
981,predictors of mammographic density: insights gained from a novel regression analysis of a twin study.,understanding which factors influence mammographically dense and nondense areas is important because percent mammographic density adjusted for age is a strong  continuously distributed risk factor for breast cancer  especially when adjusted for weight or body mass index. using computer-assisted methods  we measured mammographically dense areas for 571 monozygotic and 380 dizygotic australian and north american twin pairs ages 40 to 70 years. we used a novel regression modeling approach in which each twin's measure of dense and nondense area was regressed against one or both of the twin's and co-twin's covariates. the nature of changes to regression estimates with the inclusion of the twin and/or co-twin's covariates can be evaluated for consistency with causal and/or other models. by causal  we mean that if it were possible to vary a covariate experimentally then the expected value of the outcome measure would change. after adjusting for the individual's weight  the co-twin associations with weight were attenuated  consistent with a causal effect of weight on mammographic measures  which in absolute log cm(2)/kg was thrice stronger for nondense than dense area. after adjusting for weight  later age at menarche  and greater height were associated with greater dense and lesser nondense areas in a manner inconsistent with causality. the associations of dense and nondense areas with parity are consistent with a causal effect and/or within-person confounding. the associations between mammographic density measures and height are consistent with shared early life environmental factors that predispose to both height and percent mammographic density and possibly breast cancer risk.
983,epithelial–mesenchymal transitions in tumour progression,without epithelial–mesenchymal transitions  in which polarized epithelial cells are converted into motile cells  multicellular organisms would be incapable of getting past the blastula stage of embryonic development. however  this important developmental programme has a more sinister role in tumour progression. epithelial–mesenchymal transition provides a new basis for understanding the progression of carcinoma towards dedifferentiated and more malignant states.
985,cellular roles of dna topoisomerases: a molecular perspective,dna topoisomerases are the magicians of the dna world — by allowing dna strands or double helices to pass through each other  they can solve all of the topological problems of dna in replication  transcription and other cellular transactions. extensive biochemical and structural studies over the past three decades have provided molecular models of how the various subfamilies of dna topoisomerase manipulate dna. in this review  the cellular roles of these enzymes are examined from a molecular point of view.
987,wip1 phosphatase regulates p53-dependent apoptosis of stem cells and tumorigenesis in the mouse intestine.,colorectal cancer is one of the major causes of cancer-related deaths. to gain further insights into the mechanisms underlying its development  we investigated the role of wip1 phosphatase  which is highly expressed in intestinal stem cells  in the mouse model of apc(min)-driven polyposis. we found that wip1 removal increased the life span of apc(min) mice through a significant suppression of polyp formation. this protection was dependent on the p53 tumor suppressor  which plays a putative role in the regulation of apoptosis of intestinal stem cells. activation of apoptosis in stem cells of wip1-deficient mice  but not wild-type apc(min) mice  increased when the wnt pathway was constitutively activated. we propose  therefore  that the wip1 phosphatase regulates homeostasis of intestinal stem cells. in turn  wip1 loss suppresses apc(min)-driven polyposis by lowering the threshold for p53-dependent apoptosis of stem cells  thus preventing their conversion into tumor-initiating stem cells.
989,pharmacological blockade of asct2-dependent glutamine transport leads to anti-tumor efficacy in preclinical models,the unique metabolic demands of cancer cells underscore potentially fruitful opportunities for drug discovery in the era of precision medicine. however  therapeutic targeting of cancer metabolism has led to surprisingly few new drugs to date. the neutral amino acid glutamine serves as a key intermediate in numerous metabolic processes leveraged by cancer cells  including biosynthesis  cell signaling  and oxidative protection. herein we report the preclinical development of v-9302  a competitive small molecule antagonist of transmembrane glutamine flux that selectively and potently targets the amino acid transporter asct2. pharmacological blockade of asct2 with v-9302 resulted in attenuated cancer cell growth and proliferation  increased cell death  and increased oxidative stress  which collectively contributed to antitumor responses in vitro and in vivo. this is the first study  to our knowledge  to demonstrate the utility of a pharmacological inhibitor of glutamine transport in oncology  representing a new class of targeted therapy and laying a framework for paradigm-shifting therapies targeting cancer cell metabolism.
991,variations in the quality and sustainability of long-term glycaemic control with continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion.,aims to investigate the pattern of changes in hba1c in people with type 1 diabetes managed by long-term continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion. methods we studied hba1c changes using computerized clinic records in 35 adult people with type 1 diabetes and an elevated hba1c (≥ 64 mmol/mol  8.0%) on multiple daily insulin injections  who were then switched to continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion for at least 5 years. results we identified three subgroups with similar baseline hba1c but different long-term responses to pump therapy: group a--those with improvement followed by deterioration (57%); group b--those with improvement that was sustained throughout the 5 years (31%); and group c-those where hba1c did not change significantly from baseline (12%). the patients in group c had a higher bmi: 31.0 ± 5.2 vs. 25.9 ± 3.3 vs. 25.2 ± 3.1 kg/m² (group c vs. group a and group b; p = 0.02). conclusions improved glycaemic control with continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion was maintained over 5 years by 88% of people with type 1 diabetes in this study  but there were variations in the long-term efficacy  with some people improving and worsening  others maintaining strict control and a few subcutaneous insulin infusion 'non-responders'.
993,obesity and its metabolic complications: the role of adipokines and the relationship between obesity  inflammation  insulin resistance  dyslipidemia and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease,accumulating evidence indicates that obesity is closely associated with an increased risk of metabolic diseases such as insulin resistance  type 2 diabetes  dyslipidemia and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. obesity results from an imbalance between food intake and energy expenditure  which leads to an excessive accumulation of adipose tissue. adipose tissue is now recognized not only as a main site of storage of excess energy derived from food intake but also as an endocrine organ. the expansion of adipose tissue produces a number of bioactive substances  known as adipocytokines or adipokines  which trigger chronic low-grade inflammation and interact with a range of processes in many different organs. although the precise mechanisms are still unclear  dysregulated production or secretion of these adipokines caused by excess adipose tissue and adipose tissue dysfunction can contribute to the development of obesity-related metabolic diseases. in this review  we focus on the role of several adipokines associated with obesity and the potential impact on obesity-related metabolic diseases. multiple lines evidence provides valuable insights into the roles of adipokines in the development of obesity and its metabolic complications. further research is still required to fully understand the mechanisms underlying the metabolic actions of a few newly identified adipokines.
995,micrornas: new tools for diagnosis  prognosis  and therapy in hepatocellular carcinoma?,micrornas (mirnas) are evolutionarily conserved small noncoding rnas involved in the regulation of gene expression and protein translation. many studies have shown that they play a crucial role in driving organ and tissue differentiation during embryogenesis and in the fine-tuning of fundamental biological processes  such as proliferation and apoptosis. growing evidence indicates that their deregulation plays an important role in cancer onset and progression as well  where they act as oncogenes or oncosuppressors. in this review  we highlight the most recent findings regarding the role of mirnas in hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) by analyzing the possible mechanisms by which they contribute to this neoplasm. moreover  we discuss the possible role of circulating mirnas as biomarkers  a field that needs urgent improvement in the clinical surveillance of hcc  and the fascinating possibility of using them as therapeutic targets or drugs themselves.
997,a maternally methylated cpg island in kvlqt1 is associated with an antisense paternal transcript and loss of imprinting in beckwith-wiedemann syndrome.,loss of imprinting at igf2  generally through an h19-independent mechanism  is associated with a large percentage of patients with the overgrowth and cancer predisposition condition beckwith-wiedemann syndrome (bws). imprinting control elements are proposed to exist within the kvlqt1 locus  because multiple bws-associated chromosome rearrangements disrupt this gene. we have identified an evolutionarily conserved  maternally methylated cpg island (kvdmr1) in an intron of the kvlqt1 gene. among 12 cases of bws with normal h19 methylation  5 showed demethylation of kvdmr1 in fibroblast or lymphocyte dna; whereas  in 4 cases of bws with h19 hypermethylation  methylation at kvdmrl was normal. thus  inactivation of h19 and hypomethylation at kvdmr1 (or an associated phenomenon) represent distinct epigenetic anomalies associated with biallelic expression of igf2. reverse transcription-pcr analysis of the human and syntenic mouse loci identified the presence of a kvdmr1-associated rna transcribed exclusively from the paternal allele and in the opposite orientation with respect to the maternally expressed kvlqt1 gene. we propose that kvdmr1 and/or its associated antisense rna (kvlqt1-as) represents an additional imprinting control element or center in the human 11p15.5 and mouse distal 7 imprinted domains.
999,partitioning regulatory mechanisms of within-host malaria dynamics using the effective propagation number.,immune clearance and resource limitation (via red blood cell depletion) shape the peaks and troughs of malaria parasitemia  which in turn affect disease severity and transmission. quantitatively partitioning the relative roles of these effects through time is challenging. using data from rodent malaria  we estimated the effective propagation number  which reflects the relative importance of contrasting within-host control mechanisms through time and is sensitive to the inoculating parasite dose. our analysis showed that the capacity of innate responses to restrict initial parasite growth saturates with parasite dose and that experimentally enhanced innate immunity can affect parasite density indirectly via resource depletion. such a statistical approach offers a tool to improve targeting of drugs or vaccines for human therapy by revealing the dynamics and interactions of within-host regulatory mechanisms.
1001,inter-individual variability and genetic influences on cytokine responses to bacteria and fungi,little is known about the inter-individual variation of cytokine responses to different pathogens in healthy individuals. to systematically describe cytokine responses elicited by distinct pathogens and to determine the effect of genetic variation on cytokine production  we profiled cytokines produced by peripheral blood mononuclear cells from 197 individuals of european origin from the 200 functional genomics (200fg) cohort in the human functional genomics project (http://www.humanfunctionalgenomics.org)  obtained over three different years. we compared bacteria- and fungi-induced cytokine profiles and found that most cytokine responses were organized around a physiological response to specific pathogens  rather than around a particular immune pathway or cytokine. we then correlated genome-wide single-nucleotide polymorphism (snp) genotypes with cytokine abundance and identified six cytokine quantitative trait loci (qtls). among them  a cytokine qtl at the naa35-golm1 locus markedly modulated interleukin (il)-6 production in response to multiple pathogens and was associated with susceptibility to candidemia. furthermore  the cytokine qtls that we identified were enriched among snps previously associated with infectious diseases and heart diseases. these data reveal and begin to explain the variability in cytokine production by human immune cells in response to pathogens.
1003,sympathetic neural mechanisms in normal and hypertensive pregnancy in humans.,background direct recordings from peripheral sympathetic nerves have shown an increased sympathetic drive in pregnancy-induced hypertension (pih) and preeclampsia (pe). it is unknown whether sympathetic drive is altered in normal pregnancy  when arterial blood pressure can be normal or relatively low. the aim of this study was to measure and compare peripheral sympathetic discharge  its vasoconstrictor effect and its baroreceptor control  during pregnancy and postpartum in women with normal pregnancy (np) and pih and in normotensive nonpregnant (nn) women. methods and results twenty-one women with np  18 women with pih  and 21 nn women had muscle sympathetic nerve activity assessed from multiunit discharges (msna) and from single units with defined vasoconstrictor properties (s-msna). the s-msna in np (38+/-6.6 impulses/100 beats) was greater (p<0.05) than in nn women (19+/-1.8 impulses/100 beats) despite similar age and body weight but less than in pih women (p<0.001) (146+/-23.5 impulses/100 beats). msna followed a similar trend. cardiac baroreceptor reflex sensitivity (brs) was impaired in np and pih women relative to nn. after delivery  sympathetic activity decreased to values similar to those obtained in nn  and there was an increase in brs. in women with np  the decrease in sympathetic output occurred despite an insignificant change in blood pressure. conclusions central sympathetic output was increased in women with normal pregnancy and was even greater in the hypertensive pregnant group. the findings suggest that the moderate sympathetic hyperactivity during the latter months of normal pregnancy may help to return the arterial pressure to nonpregnant levels  although when the increase in activity is excessive  hypertension may ensue.
1005,geographical access to healthcare in northern england and post-mortem diagnosis of cancer.,background there is some previous evidence that diagnosis of cancer at death  recorded as registry death certificate only records  is associated with problems of access to care. methods records from the northern and yorkshire cancer registry for patients registered with breast  colorectal  lung  ovarian or prostate cancer between 1994 and 2002 were supplemented with measures of travel time to general practitioner and hospital services  and social deprivation. logistic regression was used to identify predictors of records where diagnosis was at death. results there was no association between the odds diagnosis at death and access to primary care. for all sites except breast  the highest odds of being a cancer diagnosed at death fell among those living in the highest quartile of hospital travel time  although it was only statistically significant for colorectal and ovary tumours. those in the most deprived and furthest travel time to hospital quartile were 2.6 times more likely to be a diagnosis at death case compared with those in the most affluent and proximal areas. conclusions there is some evidence that poorer geographical access to tertiary care  in particular when coupled with social disadvantages  may be associated with increased odds of diagnosis at death.
1007,3d chromosome regulatory landscape of human pluripotent cells.,in this study  we describe the 3d chromosome regulatory landscape of human naive and primed embryonic stem cells. to devise this map  we identified transcriptional enhancers and insulators in these cells and placed them within the context of cohesin-associated ctcf-ctcf loops using cohesin chia-pet data. the ctcf-ctcf loops we identified form a chromosomal framework of insulated neighborhoods  which in turn form topologically associating domains (tads) that are largely preserved during the transition between the naive and primed states. regulatory changes in enhancer-promoter interactions occur within insulated neighborhoods during cell state transition. the ctcf anchor regions we identified are conserved across species  influence gene expression  and are a frequent site of mutations in cancer cells  underscoring their functional importance in cellular regulation. these 3d regulatory maps of human pluripotent cells therefore provide a foundation for future interrogation of the relationships between chromosome structure and gene control in development and disease.
1009,satb1 expression governs epigenetic repression of pd‐1 in tumor‐reactive t cells,&na; despite the importance of programmed cell death‐1 (pd‐1) in inhibiting t cell effector activity  the mechanisms regulating its expression remain poorly defined. we found that the chromatin organizer special at‐rich sequence‐binding protein‐1 (satb1) restrains pd‐1 expression induced upon t cell activation by recruiting a nucleosome remodeling deacetylase (nurd) complex to pdcd1 regulatory regions. satb1 deficienct t cells exhibited a 40‐fold increase in pd‐1 expression. tumor‐derived transforming growth factor &bgr; (tgf‐&bgr;) decreased satb1 expression through binding of smad proteins to the satb1 promoter. smad proteins also competed with the satb1‐nurd complex for binding to pdcd1 enhancers  releasing pdcd1 expression from satb1‐mediated repression  satb1‐deficient tumor‐reactive t cells lost effector activity more rapidly than wild‐type lymphocytes at tumor beds expressing pd‐1 ligand (cd274)  and these differences were abrogated by sustained cd274 blockade. our findings suggest that satb1 functions to prevent premature t cell exhaustion by regulating pdcd1 expression upon t cell activation. dysregulation of this pathway in tumor‐infiltrating t cells results in diminished anti‐tumor immunity. graphical abstract figure. no caption available. highlightst cell activation increased the expression of satb1 in mature cd8+ and cd4+ t cellsrecruitment of the nurd repression complex by satb1 inhibits expression of pdcd1in tumors  tgf‐&bgr; inhibits satb1 expression in t cells  increasing pdcd1 expressionsatb1−/− t cells express high amounts of pd‐1 and have decreased anti‐tumor activity &na; stephen et al. show that the chromatin organizer satb1 controls expression levels of pd‐1 upon t cell activation through the recruitment of a de‐acetylase complex to regulatory regions of the pdcd1 gene. tumor‐derived tgf‐&bgr; dysregulates this pathway  unleashing pd‐1 expression in tumor‐infiltrating t cells and decreasing anti‐tumor immunity.
1011,mfge8 promotes obesity by mediating the uptake of dietary fats and serum fatty acids,fatty acids are integral mediators of energy storage  membrane formation and cell signaling. the pathways that orchestrate uptake of fatty acids remain incompletely understood. expression of the integrin ligand mfge8 is increased in human obesity and in mice on a high-fat diet  but its role in obesity is unknown. we show here that mfge8 promotes the absorption of dietary triglycerides and the cellular uptake of fatty acid and that mfge8-deficient (mfge8−/−) mice are protected from diet-induced obesity  steatohepatitis and insulin resistance. mechanistically  we found that mfge8 coordinates fatty acid uptake through αvβ3 integrin– and αvβ5 integrin–dependent phosphorylation of akt by phosphatidylinositide-3 kinase and mtor complex 2  leading to translocation of cd36 and fatp1 from cytoplasmic vesicles to the cell surface. collectively  our results imply a role for mfge8 in regulating the absorption and storage of dietary fats  as well as in the development of obesity and its complications.
1013,excitotoxic brain injury in adult zebrafish stimulates neurogenesis and long-distance neuronal integration.,zebrafish maintain a greater capacity than mammals for central nervous system repair after injury. understanding differences in regenerative responses between different vertebrate species may shed light on mechanisms to improve repair in humans. quinolinic acid is an excitotoxin that has been used to induce brain injury in rodents for modeling huntington's disease and stroke. when injected into the adult rodent striatum  this toxin stimulates subventricular zone neurogenesis and neuroblast migration to injury. however  most new neurons fail to survive and lesion repair is minimal. we used quinolinic acid to lesion the adult zebrafish telencephalon to study reparative processes. we also used conditional transgenic lineage mapping of adult radial glial stem cells to explore survival and integration of neurons generated after injury. telencephalic lesioning with quinolinic acid  and to a lesser extent vehicle injection  produced cell death  microglial infiltration  increased cell proliferation  and enhanced neurogenesis in the injured hemisphere. lesion repair was more complete with quinolinic acid injection than after vehicle injection. fate mapping of her4-expressing radial glia showed injury-induced expansion of radial glial stem cells that gave rise to neurons which migrated to injury  survived at least 8 weeks and formed long-distance projections that crossed the anterior commissure and synapsed in the contralateral hemisphere. these findings suggest that quinolinic acid lesioning of the zebrafish brain stimulates adult neural stem cells to produce robust regeneration with long-distance integration of new neurons. this model should prove useful for elucidating reparative mechanisms that can be applied to restorative therapies for mammalian brain injury.
1015,risk of death with atypical antipsychotic drug treatment for dementia: meta-analysis of randomized placebo-controlled trials.,context atypical antipsychotic medications are widely used to treat delusions  aggression  and agitation in people with alzheimer disease and other dementia; however  concerns have arisen about the increased risk for cerebrovascular adverse events  rapid cognitive decline  and mortality with their use. objective to assess the evidence for increased mortality from atypical antipsychotic drug treatment for people with dementia. data sources medline (1966 to april 2005)  the cochrane controlled trials register (2005  issue 1)  meetings presentations (1997-2004)  and information from the sponsors were searched using the terms for atypical antipsychotic drugs (aripiprazole  clozapine  olanzapine  quetiapine  risperidone  and ziprasidone)  dementia  alzheimer disease  and clinical trial. study selection published and unpublished randomized placebo-controlled  parallel-group clinical trials of atypical antipsychotic drugs marketed in the united states to treat patients with alzheimer disease or dementia were selected by consensus of the authors. data extraction trials  baseline characteristics  outcomes  all-cause dropouts  and deaths were extracted by one reviewer; treatment exposure was obtained or estimated. data were checked by a second reviewer. data synthesis fifteen trials (9 unpublished)  generally 10 to 12 weeks in duration  including 16 contrasts of atypical antipsychotic drugs with placebo met criteria (aripiprazole [n = 3]  olanzapine [n = 5]  quetiapine [n = 3]  risperidone [n = 5]). a total of 3353 patients were randomized to study drug and 1757 were randomized to placebo. outcomes were assessed using standard methods (with random- or fixed-effects models) to calculate odds ratios (ors) and risk differences based on patients randomized and relative risks based on total exposure to treatment. there were no differences in dropouts. death occurred more often among patients randomized to drugs (118 [3.5%] vs 40 [2.3%]. the or by meta-analysis was 1.54; 95% confidence interval [ci]  1.06-2.23; p = .02; and risk difference was 0.01; 95% ci  0.004-0.02; p = .01). sensitivity analyses did not show evidence for differential risks for individual drugs  severity  sample selection  or diagnosis. conclusions atypical antipsychotic drugs may be associated with a small increased risk for death compared with placebo. this risk should be considered within the context of medical need for the drugs  efficacy evidence  medical comorbidity  and the efficacy and safety of alternatives. individual patient analyses modeling survival and causes of death are needed.
1017,amphiregulin enhances regulatory t cell-suppressive function via the epidermal growth factor receptor.,epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) is known to be critically involved in tissue development and homeostasis as well as in the pathogenesis of cancer. here we showed that foxp3(+) regulatory t (treg) cells express egfr under inflammatory conditions. stimulation with the egf-like growth factor amphiregulin (areg) markedly enhanced treg cell function in vitro  and in a colitis and tumor vaccination model we showed that areg was critical for efficient treg cell function in vivo. in addition  mast cell-derived areg fully restored optimal treg cell function. these findings reveal egfr as a component in the regulation of local immune responses and establish a link between mast cells and treg cells. targeting of this immune regulatory mechanism may contribute to the therapeutic successes of egfr-targeting treatments in cancer patients.
1019,sequential histone-modifying activities determine the robustness of transdifferentiation,natural interconversions between distinct somatic cell types have been reported in species as diverse as jellyfish and mice. the efficiency and reproducibility of some reprogramming events represent unexploited avenues in which to probe mechanisms that ensure robust cell conversion. we report that a conserved h3k27me3/me2 demethylase  jmjd-3.1  and the h3k4 methyltransferase set1 complex cooperate to ensure invariant transdifferentiation (td) of postmitotic caenorhabditis elegans hindgut cells into motor neurons. at single-cell resolution  robust conversion requires stepwise histone-modifying activities  functionally partitioned into discrete phases of td through nuclear degradation of jmjd-3.1 and phase-specific interactions with transcription factors that have conserved roles in cell plasticity and terminal fate selection. our results draw parallels between epigenetic mechanisms underlying robust td in nature and efficient cell reprogramming in vitro.
1021,role of common hypnotics on the phenotypic causes of obstructive sleep apnoea: paradoxical effects of zolpidem.,hypnotics are contraindicated in obstructive sleep apnoea (osa) because of concerns of pharyngeal muscle relaxation and delayed arousal worsening hypoxaemia. however  human data are lacking. this study aimed to determine the effects of three common hypnotics on the respiratory arousal threshold  genioglossus muscle responsiveness and upper airway collapsibility during sleep.21 individuals with and without osa (18-65 years) completed 84 detailed sleep studies after receiving temazepam (10 mg)  zolpidem (10 mg)  zopiclone (7.5 mg) and placebo on four occasions in a randomised  double-blind  placebo-controlled  crossover trial (actrn12612001004853).the arousal threshold increased with zolpidem and zopiclone versus placebo (mean±sd -18.3±10 and -19.1±9 versus -14.6±7 cmh2o; p=0.02 and p<0.001) but not with temazepam (-16.8±9 cmh2o; p=0.17). genioglossus muscle activity during stable non-rem sleep and responsiveness during airway narrowing was not different with temazepam and zopiclone versus placebo but  paradoxically  zolpidem increased median muscle responsiveness three-fold during airway narrowing (median -0.15 (interquartile range -1.01 to -0.04) versus -0.05 (-0.29 to -0.03)% maximum emg per cmh2o epiglottic pressure; p=0.03). the upper airway critical closing pressure did not change with any of the hypnotics. these doses of common hypnotics have differential effects on the respiratory arousal threshold but do not reduce upper airway muscle activity or alter airway collapsibility during sleep. rather  muscle activity increases during airway narrowing with zolpidem.
1023,mg53 nucleates assembly of cell membrane repair machinery,dynamic membrane repair and remodelling is an elemental process that maintains cell integrity and mediates efficient cellular function. here we report that mg53  a muscle-specific tripartite motif family protein (trim72)  is a component of the sarcolemmal membrane-repair machinery. mg53 interacts with phosphatidylserine to associate with intracellular vesicles that traffic to and fuse with sarcolemmal membranes. mice null for mg53 show progressive myopathy and reduced exercise capability  associated with defective membrane-repair capacity. injury of the sarcolemmal membrane leads to entry of the extracellular oxidative environment and mg53 oligomerization  resulting in recruitment of mg53-containing vesicles to the injury site. after vesicle translocation  entry of extracellular ca2+ facilitates vesicle fusion to reseal the membrane. our data indicate that intracellular vesicle translocation and ca2+-dependent membrane fusion are distinct steps involved in the repair of membrane damage and that mg53 may initiate the assembly of the membrane repair machinery in an oxidation-dependent manner.
1025,arid1a-mutated ovarian cancers depend on hdac6 activity,arid1a  encoding a subunit of the swi/snf chromatin-remodelling complex  is the most frequently mutated epigenetic regulator across all human cancers. arid1a and tp53 mutations are typically mutually exclusive. therapeutic approaches that correlate with this genetic characteristic remain to be explored. here  we show that hdac6 activity is essential in arid1a-mutated ovarian cancers. inhibition of hdac6 activity using a clinically applicable small-molecule inhibitor significantly improved the survival of mice bearing arid1a-mutated tumours. this correlated with the suppression of growth and dissemination of arid1a-mutated  but not wild-type  tumours. the dependence on hdac6 activity in arid1a-mutated cells correlated with a direct transcriptional repression of hdac6 by arid1a. hdac6 inhibition selectively promoted apoptosis of arid1a-mutated cells. hdac6 directly deacetylates lys120 of p53  a pro-apoptotic post-translational modification. thus  arid1a mutation inactivates the apoptosis-promoting function of p53 by upregulating hdac6. together  these results indicate that pharmacological inhibition of hdac6 is a therapeutic strategy for arid1a-mutated cancers.
1027,autoimmunity due to molecular mimicry as a cause of neurological disease,one hypothesis that couples infection with autoimmune disease is molecular mimicry. molecular mimicry is characterized by an immune response to an environmental agent that cross-reacts with a host antigen  resulting in disease. this hypothesis has been implicated in the pathogenesis of diabetes  lupus and multiple sclerosis (ms). there is limited direct evidence linking causative agents with pathogenic immune reactions in these diseases. our study establishes a clear link between viral infection  autoimmunity and neurological disease in humans. as a model for molecular mimicry  we studied patients with human t-lymphotropic virus type 1 (htlv-1)-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (ham/tsp)  a disease that can be indistinguishable from ms (refs. 5 6 7). ham/tsp patients develop antibodies to neurons. we hypothesized these antibodies would identify a central nervous system (cns) autoantigen. immunoglobulin g isolated from ham/tsp patients identified heterogeneous nuclear ribonuclear protein-a1 (hnrnp-a1) as the autoantigen. antibodies to hnrnp-a1 cross-reacted with htlv-1-tax  the immune response to which is associated with ham/tsp (refs. 5 9). immunoglobulin g specifically stained human betz cells  whose axons are preferentially damaged. infusion of autoantibodies in brain sections inhibited neuronal firing  indicative of their pathogenic nature. these data demonstrate the importance of molecular mimicry between an infecting agent and hnrnp-a1 in autoimmune disease of the cns.
1029,a new genetic subgroup of chronic granulomatous disease with autosomal recessive mutations in p40 phox and selective defects in neutrophil nadph oxidase activity.,chronic granulomatous disease (cgd)  an immunodeficiency with recurrent pyogenic infections and granulomatous inflammation  results from loss of phagocyte superoxide production by recessive mutations in any 1 of 4 genes encoding subunits of the phagocyte nadph oxidase. these include gp91(phox) and p22(phox)  which form the membrane-integrated flavocytochrome b  and cytosolic subunits p47(phox) and p67(phox). a fifth subunit  p40(phox)  plays an important role in phagocytosis-induced superoxide production via a phox homology (px) domain that binds to phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate (ptdins(3)p). we report the first case of autosomal recessive mutations in ncf4  the gene encoding p40(phox)  in a boy who presented with granulomatous colitis. his neutrophils showed a substantial defect in intracellular superoxide production during phagocytosis  whereas extracellular release of superoxide elicited by phorbol ester or formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine (fmlf) was unaffected. genetic analysis of ncf4 showed compound heterozygosity for a frameshift mutation with premature stop codon and a missense mutation predicting a r105q substitution in the px domain. parents and a sibling were healthy heterozygous carriers. p40(phox)r105q lacked binding to ptdins(3)p and failed to reconstitute phagocytosis-induced oxidase activity in p40(phox)-deficient granulocytes  with premature loss of p40(phox)r105q from phagosomes. thus  p40(phox) binding to ptdins(3)p is essential for phagocytosis-induced oxidant production in human neutrophils and its absence can be associated with disease.
1031,oral ciclopirox olamine displays biological activity in a phase i study in patients with advanced hematologic malignancies.,the antimycotic ciclopirox olamine is an intracellular iron chelator that has anticancer activity in vitro and in vivo. we developed an oral formulation of ciclopirox olamine and conducted the first-in-human phase i study of this drug in patients with relapsed or refractory hematologic malignancies (trial registration id: nct00990587). patients were treated with 5-80 mg/m² oral ciclopirox olamine once daily for five days in 21-day treatment cycles. pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic companion studies were performed in a subset of patients. following definition of the half-life of ciclopirox olamine  an additional cohort was enrolled and treated with 80 mg/m² ciclopirox olamine four times daily. adverse events and clinical response were monitored throughout the trial. twenty-three patients received study treatment. ciclopirox was rapidly absorbed and cleared with a short half-life. plasma concentrations of an inactive ciclopirox glucuronide metabolite were greater than those of ciclopirox. repression of survivin expression was observed in peripheral blood cells isolated from patients treated once daily with ciclopirox olamine at doses greater than 10 mg/m²  demonstrating biological activity of the drug. dose-limiting gastrointestinal toxicities were observed in patients receiving 80 mg/m² four times daily  and no dose limiting toxicity was observed at 40 mg/m² once daily. hematologic improvement was observed in two patients. once-daily dosing of oral ciclopirox olamine was well tolerated in patients with relapsed or refractory hematologic malignancies  and further optimization of dosing regimens is warranted in this patient population.
1033,alphae-catenin controls cerebral cortical size by regulating the hedgehog signaling pathway.,during development  cells monitor and adjust their rates of accumulation to produce organs of predetermined size. we show here that central nervous system-specific deletion of the essential adherens junction gene  alphae-catenin  causes abnormal activation of the hedgehog pathway  resulting in shortening of the cell cycle  decreased apoptosis  and cortical hyperplasia. we propose that alphae-catenin connects cell-density-dependent adherens junctions with the developmental hedgehog pathway and that this connection may provide a negative feedback loop controlling the size of developing cerebral cortex.
1035,liver-resident macrophage necroptosis orchestrates type 1 microbicidal inflammation and type-2-mediated tissue repair during bacterial infection.,kupffer cells  the phagocytes of fetal origin that line the liver sinusoids  are key contributors of host defense against enteroinvasive bacteria. here  we found that infection by listeria monocytogenes induced the early necroptotic death of kupffer cells  which was followed by monocyte recruitment and an anti-bacterial type 1 inflammatory response. kupffer cell death also triggered a type 2 response that involved the hepatocyte-derived alarmin interleukin-33 (il-33) and basophil-derived interleukin-4 (il-4). this led to the alternative activation of the monocyte-derived macrophages recruited to the liver  which thereby replaced ablated kupffer cells and restored liver homeostasis. kupffer cell death is therefore a key signal orchestrating type 1 microbicidal inflammation and type-2-mediated liver repair upon infection. this indicates that beyond the classical dichotomy of type 1 and type 2 responses  these responses can develop sequentially in the context of a bacterial infection and act interdependently  orchestrating liver immune responses and return to homeostasis  respectively.
1037,the ly49q receptor plays a crucial role in neutrophil polarization and migration by regulating raft trafficking.,neutrophils rapidly undergo polarization and directional movement to infiltrate the sites of infection and inflammation. here  we show that an inhibitory mhc i receptor  ly49q  was crucial for the swift polarization of and tissue infiltration by neutrophils. during the steady state  ly49q inhibited neutrophil adhesion by preventing focal-complex formation  likely by inhibiting src and pi3 kinases. however  in the presence of inflammatory stimuli  ly49q mediated rapid neutrophil polarization and tissue infiltration in an itim-domain-dependent manner. these opposite functions appeared to be mediated by distinct use of effector phosphatase shp-1 and shp-2. ly49q-dependent polarization and migration were affected by ly49q regulation of membrane raft functions. we propose that ly49q is pivotal in switching neutrophils to their polarized morphology and rapid migration upon inflammation  through its spatiotemporal regulation of membrane rafts and raft-associated signaling molecules.
1039,nortriptyline for smoking cessation: a review.,this article reviews the efficacy of nortriptyline for smoking cessation based on a meta-analysis of the cochrane library. six placebo-controlled trials have shown nortriptyline (75-100 mg) doubles quit rates (or = 2.1). between 4% and 12% of smokers dropped out because of adverse events  but no serious adverse events occurred. the efficacy of nortriptyline did not appear to be related to its antidepressant actions. nortriptyline is an efficacious aid to smoking cessation with a magnitude of effect similar to that for bupropion and nicotine replacement therapies. whether nortriptyline produces serious side effects at these doses in healthy  nondepressed smokers remains unclear because it has been tested in only 500 smokers. the finding that nortriptyline and bupropion are effective for smoking cessation but that selective serotonin-reuptake inhibitors are not suggests that dopaminergic or adrenergic  but not serotonergic  activity is important for cessation efficacy. until further studies can verify a low incidence of significant adverse events  nortriptyline should be a second-line treatment for smoking cessation.
1041,use of serum c reactive protein and procalcitonin concentrations in addition to symptoms and signs to predict pneumonia in patients presenting to primary care with acute cough: diagnostic study,objectives to quantify the diagnostic accuracy of selected inflammatory markers in addition to symptoms and signs for predicting pneumonia and to derive a diagnostic tool. design diagnostic study performed between 2007 and 2010. participants had their history taken  underwent physical examination and measurement of c reactive protein (crp) and procalcitonin in venous blood on the day they first consulted  and underwent chest radiography within seven days. setting primary care centres in 12 european countries. participants adults presenting with acute cough. main outcome measures pneumonia as determined by radiologists  who were blind to all other information when they judged chest radiographs. results of 3106 eligible patients  286 were excluded because of missing or inadequate chest radiographs  leaving 2820 patients (mean age 50  40% men) of whom 140 (5%) had pneumonia. re-assessment of a subset of 1675 chest radiographs showed agreement in 94% (κ 0.45  95% confidence interval 0.36 to 0.54). six published "symptoms and signs models" varied in their discrimination (area under receiver operating characteristics curve (roc) ranged from 0.55 (95% confidence interval 0.50 to 0.61) to 0.71 (0.66 to 0.76)). the optimal combination of clinical prediction items derived from our patients included absence of runny nose and presence of breathlessness  crackles and diminished breath sounds on auscultation  tachycardia  and fever  with an roc area of 0.70 (0.65 to 0.75). addition of crp at the optimal cut off of >30 mg/l increased the roc area to 0.77 (0.73 to 0.81) and improved the diagnostic classification (net reclassification improvement 28%). in the 1556 patients classified according to symptoms  signs  and crp >30 mg/l as "low risk" (<2.5%) for pneumonia  the prevalence of pneumonia was 2%. in the 132 patients classified as "high risk" (>20%)  the prevalence of pneumonia was 31%. the positive likelihood ratio of low  intermediate  and high risk for pneumonia was 0.4  1.2  and 8.6 respectively. measurement of procalcitonin added no relevant additional diagnostic information. a simplified diagnostic score based on symptoms  signs  and crp >30 mg/l resulted in proportions of pneumonia of 0.7%  3.8%  and 18.2% in the low  intermediate  and high risk group respectively. conclusions a clinical rule based on symptoms and signs to predict pneumonia in patients presenting to primary care with acute cough performed best in patients with mild or severe clinical presentation. addition of crp concentration at the optimal cut off of >30 mg/l improved diagnostic information  but measurement of procalcitonin concentration did not add clinically relevant information in this group.
1043,etiology of type 1 diabetes.,recent genetic mapping and gene-phenotype studies have revealed the genetic architecture of type 1 diabetes. at least ten genes so far can be singled out as strong causal candidates. the known functions of these genes indicate the primary etiological pathways of this disease  including hla class ii and i molecules binding to preproinsulin peptides and t cell receptors  t and b cell activation  innate pathogen-viral responses  chemokine and cytokine signaling  and t regulatory and antigen-presenting cell functions. this review considers research in the field of type 1 diabetes toward identifying disease mechanisms using genetic approaches. the expression and functions of these pathways  and  therefore  disease susceptibility  will be influenced by epigenetic and environmental factors. certain inherited immune phenotypes will be early precursors of type 1 diabetes and could be useful in future clinical trials.
1045,atm-deficient mice exhibit increased sensitivity to dextran sulfate sodium-induced colitis characterized by elevated dna damage and persistent immune activation.,the role of ataxia telangiectasia mutated (atm)  a dna double-strand break recognition and response protein  in inflammation and inflammatory diseases is unclear. we have previously shown that high levels of systemic dna damage are induced by intestinal inflammation in wild-type mice. to determine the effect of atm deficiency in inflammation  we induced experimental colitis in atm(-/-)  atm(+/-)  and wild-type mice via dextran sulfate sodium (dss) administration. atm(-/-) mice had higher disease activity indices and rates of mortality compared with heterozygous and wild-type mice. systemic dna damage and immune response were characterized in peripheral blood throughout and after three cycles of treatment. atm(-/-) mice showed increased sensitivity to levels of dna strand breaks in peripheral leukocytes  as well as micronucleus formation in erythroblasts  compared with heterozygous and wild-type mice  especially during remission periods and after the end of treatment. markers of reactive oxygen and nitrogen species-mediated damage  including 8-oxoguanine and nitrotyrosine  were present both in the distal colon and in peripheral leukocytes  with atm(-/-) mice manifesting more 8-oxoguanine formation than wild-type mice. atm(-/-) mice showed greater upregulation of inflammatory cytokines and significantly higher percentages of activated cd69+ and cd44+ t cells in the peripheral blood throughout treatment. atm  therefore  may be a critical immunoregulatory factor dampening the deleterious effects of chronic dss-induced inflammation  necessary for systemic genomic stability and homeostasis of the gut epithelial barrier.
1047,cohcap: an integrative genomic pipeline for single-nucleotide resolution dna methylation analysis,cohcap (city of hope cpg island analysis pipeline) is an algorithm to analyze single-nucleotide resolution dna methylation data produced by either an illumina methylation array or targeted bisulfite sequencing. the goal of the cohcap algorithm is to identify cpg islands that show a consistent pattern of methylation among cpg sites. cohcap is currently the only dna methylation package that provides integration with gene expression data to identify a subset of cpg islands that are most likely to regulate downstream gene expression  and it can generate lists of differentially methylated cpg islands with ∼50% concordance with gene expression from both cell line data and heterogeneous patient data. for example  this article describes known breast cancer biomarkers (such as estrogen receptor) with a negative correlation between dna methylation and gene expression. cohcap also provides visualization for quality control metrics  regions of differential methylation and correlation between methylation and gene expression. this software is freely available at https://sourceforge.net/projects/cohcap/.
1049,the third international consensus definitions for sepsis and septic shock (sepsis-3).,importance definitions of sepsis and septic shock were last revised in 2001. considerable advances have since been made into the pathobiology (changes in organ function  morphology  cell biology  biochemistry  immunology  and circulation)  management  and epidemiology of sepsis  suggesting the need for reexamination. objective to evaluate and  as needed  update definitions for sepsis and septic shock. process a task force (n = 19) with expertise in sepsis pathobiology  clinical trials  and epidemiology was convened by the society of critical care medicine and the european society of intensive care medicine. definitions and clinical criteria were generated through meetings  delphi processes  analysis of electronic health record databases  and voting  followed by circulation to international professional societies  requesting peer review and endorsement (by 31 societies listed in the acknowledgment). key findings from evidence synthesis limitations of previous definitions included an excessive focus on inflammation  the misleading model that sepsis follows a continuum through severe sepsis to shock  and inadequate specificity and sensitivity of the systemic inflammatory response syndrome (sirs) criteria. multiple definitions and terminologies are currently in use for sepsis  septic shock  and organ dysfunction  leading to discrepancies in reported incidence and observed mortality. the task force concluded the term severe sepsis was redundant. recommendations sepsis should be defined as life-threatening organ dysfunction caused by a dysregulated host response to infection. for clinical operationalization  organ dysfunction can be represented by an increase in the sequential [sepsis-related] organ failure assessment (sofa) score of 2 points or more  which is associated with an in-hospital mortality greater than 10%. septic shock should be defined as a subset of sepsis in which particularly profound circulatory  cellular  and metabolic abnormalities are associated with a greater risk of mortality than with sepsis alone. patients with septic shock can be clinically identified by a vasopressor requirement to maintain a mean arterial pressure of 65 mm hg or greater and serum lactate level greater than 2 mmol/l (>18 mg/dl) in the absence of hypovolemia. this combination is associated with hospital mortality rates greater than 40%. in out-of-hospital  emergency department  or general hospital ward settings  adult patients with suspected infection can be rapidly identified as being more likely to have poor outcomes typical of sepsis if they have at least 2 of the following clinical criteria that together constitute a new bedside clinical score termed quicksofa (qsofa): respiratory rate of 22/min or greater  altered mentation  or systolic blood pressure of 100 mm hg or less. conclusions and relevance these updated definitions and clinical criteria should replace previous definitions  offer greater consistency for epidemiologic studies and clinical trials  and facilitate earlier recognition and more timely management of patients with sepsis or at risk of developing sepsis.
1051,microrna-148a regulates ldl receptor and abca1 expression to control circulating lipoprotein levels,the hepatic low-density lipoprotein receptor (ldlr) pathway is essential for clearing circulating ldl cholesterol (ldl-c). whereas the transcriptional regulation of ldlr is well characterized  the post-transcriptional mechanisms that govern ldlr expression are just beginning to emerge. here we develop a high-throughput genome-wide screening assay to systematically identify micrornas (mirnas) that regulate ldlr activity in human hepatic cells. from this screen we identified and characterized mir-148a as a negative regulator of ldlr expression and activity and defined a sterol regulatory element–binding protein 1 (srebp1)-mediated pathway through which mir-148a regulates ldl-c uptake. in mice  inhibition of mir-148a increased hepatic ldlr expression and decreased plasma ldl-c. moreover  we found that mir-148a regulates hepatic expression of atp-binding cassette  subfamily a  member 1 (abca1) and circulating high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (hdl-c) levels in vivo. these studies uncover a role for mir-148a as a key regulator of hepatic ldl-c clearance through direct modulation of ldlr expression and demonstrate the therapeutic potential of inhibiting mir-148a to ameliorate an elevated ldl-c/hdl-c ratio  a prominent risk factor for cardiovascular disease.
1053,degradation of cellular mir-27 by a novel  highly abundant viral transcript is important for efficient virus replication in vivo,cytomegaloviruses express large amounts of viral mirnas during lytic infection  yet  they only modestly alter the cellular mirna profile. the most prominent alteration upon lytic murine cytomegalovirus (mcmv) infection is the rapid degradation of the cellular mir-27a and mir-27b. here  we report that this regulation is mediated by the ∼1.7 kb spliced and highly abundant mcmv m169 transcript. specificity to mir-27a/b is mediated by a single  apparently optimized  mirna binding site located in its 3'-utr. this site is easily and efficiently retargeted to other cellular and viral mirnas by target site replacement. expression of the 3'-utr of m169 by an adenoviral vector was sufficient to mediate its function  indicating that no other viral factors are essential in this process. degradation of mir-27a/b was found to be accompanied by 3'-tailing and -trimming. despite its dramatic effect on mirna stability  we found this interaction to be mutual  indicating potential regulation of m169 by mir-27a/b. most interestingly  three mutant viruses no longer able to target mir-27a/b  either due to mirna target site disruption or target site replacement  showed significant attenuation in multiple organs as early as 4 days post infection  indicating that degradation of mir-27a/b is important for efficient mcmv replication in vivo.
1055,development of candidate genomic markers to select breast cancer patients for dasatinib therapy.,patient selection is important for targeted therapies  yet phase i/ii trials are often underpowered for developing predictors of drug response. the goal of this research was to define genomic predictors for dasatinib that could be prospectively tested in early-phase clinical trials. gene expression profiles of dasatinib-sensitive and dasatinib-resistant cell lines (n = 23) were compared to develop a dasatinib-sensitivity index (modified ds index). a src pathway activity index (revised src index) was defined using genes induced by the src transfection of mammary epithelial cells and was optimized to be reproducible across cell lines and human specimens. a dasatinib target index was devised using the weighted sum of 19 kinases that bind to dasatinib with variable affinity. the performance of these prediction models was assessed in independent cell lines with known dasatinib sensitivity. the feasibility of applying these genomic tests to human samples was evaluated on 133 biopsies of primary breast cancers. the modified ds index showed 90% accuracy in independent breast cancer cell lines (n = 12) and the target index  but not the revised src index signature  also distinguished dasatinib-sensitive and dasatinib-resistant cells (p = 0.0024). the genomic predictors showed acceptable reproducibility in replicate cell line and human gene expression data. when all three predictors were applied to the same 133 patient samples  the predictors identified different patient subsets as potentially sensitive. we defined three conceptually different potential predictors of dasatinib response that were reproducible across cell lines and human data. these candidate markers are being tested in a clinical trial to determine their utility.
1057,vegetarian diet improves insulin resistance and oxidative stress markers more than conventional diet in subjects with type 2 diabetes,aims the aim of this study was to compare the effects of calorie-restricted vegetarian and conventional diabetic diets alone and in combination with exercise on insulin resistance  visceral fat and oxidative stress markers in subjects with type 2 diabetes. methods a 24-week  randomized  open  parallel design was used. seventy-four patients with type 2 diabetes were randomly assigned to either the experimental group (n = 37)  which received a vegetarian diet  or the control group (n = 37)  which received a conventional diabetic diet. both diets were isocaloric  calorie restricted (-500 kcal/day). all meals during the study were provided. the second 12 weeks of the diet were combined with aerobic exercise. participants were examined at baseline  12 weeks and 24 weeks. primary outcomes were: insulin sensitivity measured by hyperinsulinaemic isoglycaemic clamp; volume of visceral and subcutaneous fat measured by magnetic resonance imaging; and oxidative stress measured by thiobarbituric acid reactive substances. analyses were by intention to treat. results forty-three per cent of participants in the experimental group and 5% of participants in the control group reduced diabetes medication (p < 0.001). body weight decreased more in the experimental group than in the control group [-6.2 kg (95% ci -6.6 to -5.3) vs. -3.2 kg (95% ci -3.7 to -2.5); interaction group × time p = 0.001]. an increase in insulin sensitivity was significantly greater in the experimental group than in the control group [30% (95% ci 24.5-39) vs. 20% (95% ci 14-25)  p = 0.04]. a reduction in both visceral and subcutaneous fat was greater in the experimental group than in the control group (p = 0.007 and p = 0.02  respectively). plasma adiponectin increased (p = 0.02) and leptin decreased (p = 0.02) in the experimental group  with no change in the control group. vitamin c  superoxide dismutase and reduced glutathione increased in the experimental group (p = 0.002  p < 0.001 and p = 0.02  respectively). differences between groups were greater after the addition of exercise training. changes in insulin sensitivity and enzymatic oxidative stress markers correlated with changes in visceral fat. conclusions a calorie-restricted vegetarian diet had greater capacity to improve insulin sensitivity compared with a conventional diabetic diet over 24 weeks. the greater loss of visceral fat and improvements in plasma concentrations of adipokines and oxidative stress markers with this diet may be responsible for the reduction of insulin resistance. the addition of exercise training further augmented the improved outcomes with the vegetarian diet.
1059,the benefits of statins in people without established cardiovascular disease but with cardiovascular risk factors: meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials,objectives to investigate whether statins reduce all cause mortality and major coronary and cerebrovascular events in people without established cardiovascular disease but with cardiovascular risk factors  and whether these effects are similar in men and women  in young and older (>65 years) people  and in people with diabetes mellitus. design meta-analysis of randomised trials. data sources cochrane controlled trials register  embase  and medline. data abstraction two independent investigators identified studies on the clinical effects of statins compared with a placebo or control group and with follow-up of at least one year  at least 80% or more participants without established cardiovascular disease  and outcome data on mortality and major cardiovascular disease events. heterogeneity was assessed using the q and i(2) statistics. publication bias was assessed by visual examination of funnel plots and the egger regression test. results 10 trials enrolled a total of 70 388 people  of whom 23 681 (34%) were women and 16 078 (23%) had diabetes mellitus. mean follow-up was 4.1 years. treatment with statins significantly reduced the risk of all cause mortality (odds ratio 0.88  95% confidence interval 0.81 to 0.96)  major coronary events (0.70  0.61 to 0.81)  and major cerebrovascular events (0.81  0.71 to 0.93). no evidence of an increased risk of cancer was observed. there was no significant heterogeneity of the treatment effect in clinical subgroups. conclusion in patients without established cardiovascular disease but with cardiovascular risk factors  statin use was associated with significantly improved survival and large reductions in the risk of major cardiovascular events.
1061,phosphate and r2d2 restrict the substrate specificity of dicer-2  an atp-driven ribonuclease.,drosophila dicer-2 generates small interfering rnas (sirnas) from long double-stranded rna (dsrna)  whereas dicer-1 produces micrornas (mirnas) from pre-mirna. what makes the two dicers specific for their biological substrates? we find that purified dicer-2 can efficiently cleave pre-mirna  but that inorganic phosphate and the dicer-2 partner protein r2d2 inhibit pre-mirna cleavage. dicer-2 contains c-terminal rnase iii domains that mediate rna cleavage and an n-terminal helicase motif  whose function is unclear. we show that dicer-2 is a dsrna-stimulated atpase that hydrolyzes atp to adp; atp hydrolysis is required for dicer-2 to process long dsrna  but not pre-mirna. wild-type dicer-2  but not a mutant defective in atp hydrolysis  can generate sirnas faster than it can dissociate from a long dsrna substrate. we propose that the dicer-2 helicase domain uses atp to generate many sirnas from a single molecule of dsrna before dissociating from its substrate.
1063,the feasibility of malaria elimination in south africa,background following the last major malaria epidemic in 2000  malaria incidence in south africa has declined markedly. the decrease has been so emphatic that south africa now meets the world health organization (who) threshold for malaria elimination. given the millennium development goal of reversing the spread of malaria by 2015  south africa is being urged to adopt an elimination agenda. this study aimed to determine the appropriateness of implementing a malaria elimination programme in present day south africa. methods an assessment of the progress made by south africa in terms of implementing an integrated malaria control programme across the three malaria-endemic provinces was undertaken. vector control and case management data were analysed from the period of 2000 until 2011. results both malaria-related morbidity and mortality have decreased significantly across all three malaria-endemic provinces since 2000. the greatest decline was seen in kwazulu-natal where cases decreased from 42 276 in 2000 to 380 in 2010 and deaths dropped from 122 in 2000 to six in 2010. although there has been a 49.2 % (8 553 vs 4 214) decrease in the malaria cases reported in limpopo province  currently it is the largest contributor to the malaria incidence in south africa. despite all three provinces reporting average insecticide spray coverage of over 80%  malaria incidence in both mpumalanga and limpopo remains above the elimination threshold. locally transmitted case numbers have declined in all three malaria provinces but imported case numbers have been increasing. knowledge gaps in vector distribution  insecticide resistance status and drug usage were also identified. conclusions malaria elimination in south africa is a realistic possibility if certain criteria are met. firstly  there must be continued support for the existing malaria control programmes to ensure the gains made are sustained. secondly  cross border malaria control initiatives with neighbouring countries must be strongly encouraged and supported to reduce malaria in the region and the importation of malaria into south africa. thirdly  operational research  particularly on vector distribution and insecticide resistance status must be conducted as a matter of urgency  and finally  the surveillance systems must be refined to ensure the information required to inform an elimination agenda are routinely collected.
1065,characterization of programmed death-1 homologue-1 (pd-1h) expression and function in normal and hiv infected individuals,chronic immune activation that persists despite anti-retroviral therapy (art) is the strongest predictor of disease progression in hiv infection. monocyte/macrophages in hiv-infected individuals are known to spontaneously secrete cytokines  although neither the mechanism nor the molecules involved are known. here we show that overexpression of the newly described co-stimulatory molecule  pd1 homologue (pd-1h) in human monocyte/macrophages is sufficient to induce spontaneous secretion of multiple cytokines. the process requires signaling via pd-1h as cytokine secretion could be abrogated by deletion of the cytoplasmic domain. such overexpression of pd-1h  associated with spontaneous cytokine expression is seen in monocytes from chronically hiv-infected individuals and this correlates with immune activation and cd4 depletion  but not viral load. moreover  antigen presentation by pd-1h-overexpressing monocytes results in enhanced cytokine secretion by hiv-specific t cells. these results suggest that pd-1h might play a crucial role in modulating immune activation and immune response in hiv infection.
1067,chemical tools for biomolecular imaging.,the visualization of biologically relevant molecules and activities inside living cells continues to transform cell biology into a truly quantitative science. however  despite the spectacular achievements in some areas of cell biology  the majority of cellular processes still operate invisibly  not illuminated by even our brightest laser beams. further progress therefore will depend not only on improvements in instrumentation but also increasingly on the development of new fluorophores and fluorescent sensors to target these activities. in the following  we review some of the recent approaches to generating such sensors  the methods to attach them to selected biomolecules  and their applications to various biological problems.
1069,a link between inflammation and metastasis: serum amyloid a1 and a3 induce metastasis  and are targets of metastasis-inducing s100a4,s100a4 is implicated in metastasis and chronic inflammation  but its function remains uncertain. here we establish an s100a4-dependent link between inflammation and metastatic tumor progression. we found that the acute-phase response proteins serum amyloid a (saa) 1 and saa3 are transcriptional targets of s100a4 via toll-like receptor 4 (tlr4)/nuclear factor-κb signaling. saa proteins stimulated the transcription of rantes (regulated upon activation normal t-cell expressed and presumably secreted)  g-csf (granulocyte-colony-stimulating factor) and mmp2 (matrix metalloproteinase 2)  mmp3  mmp9 and mmp13. we have also shown for the first time that saa stimulate their own transcription as well as that of proinflammatory s100a8 and s100a9 proteins. moreover  they strongly enhanced tumor cell adhesion to fibronectin  and stimulated migration and invasion of human and mouse tumor cells. intravenously injected s100a4 protein induced expression of saa proteins and cytokines in an organ-specific manner. in a breast cancer animal model  ectopic expression of saa1 or saa3 in tumor cells potently promoted widespread metastasis formation accompanied by a massive infiltration of immune cells. furthermore  coordinate expression of s100a4 and saa in tumor samples from colorectal carcinoma patients significantly correlated with reduced overall survival. these data show that saa proteins are effectors for the metastasis-promoting functions of s100a4  and serve as a link between inflammation and tumor progression.
1071,clonal hematopoiesis of indeterminate potential and its distinction from myelodysplastic syndromes.,recent genetic analyses of large populations have revealed that somatic mutations in hematopoietic cells leading to clonal expansion are commonly acquired during human aging. clonally restricted hematopoiesis is associated with an increased risk of subsequent diagnosis of myeloid or lymphoid neoplasia and increased all-cause mortality. although myelodysplastic syndromes (mds) are defined by cytopenias  dysplastic morphology of blood and marrow cells  and clonal hematopoiesis  most individuals who acquire clonal hematopoiesis during aging will never develop mds. therefore  acquisition of somatic mutations that drive clonal expansion in the absence of cytopenias and dysplastic hematopoiesis can be considered clonal hematopoiesis of indeterminate potential (chip)  analogous to monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance and monoclonal b-cell lymphocytosis  which are precursor states for hematologic neoplasms but are usually benign and do not progress. because mutations are frequently observed in healthy older persons  detection of an mds-associated somatic mutation in a cytopenic patient without other evidence of mds may cause diagnostic uncertainty. here we discuss the nature and prevalence of chip  distinction of this state from mds  and current areas of uncertainty regarding diagnostic criteria for myeloid malignancies.
1073,modulation of glucose metabolism in macrophages by products of nitric oxide synthase.,nitric oxide (no) is a product of l-arginine metabolism that suppresses cellular oxidative metabolism through the inhibition of tricarboxylic acid cycle and electron transport chain enzymes. the impact of no synthase (nos) activity on specific pathways of glucose metabolism in freshly harvested and overnight-cultured rat resident peritoneal macrophages  at rest and after stimulation with zymosan  was investigated using radiolabeled glucose. nos activity was modulated through the l-arginine concentration in culture media and the use of its specific inhibitor  ng-monomethyl-l-arginine  and quantitated using radiolabeled l-arginine. results demonstrated that nos activity was associated with increased glucose disappearance  glycolysis  and hexose monophosphate shunt activity and  in line with the known inhibition of oxidative metabolism associated with the production of no  with a decrease in the flux of glucose and butyrate carbon through the tricarboxylic acid cycle. in addition  the relative increase in glucose utilization that follows zymosan stimulation was enhanced by treatments that suppressed nos activity. these results demonstrate that the characteristics of glucose metabolism by macrophages are  to a significant extent  determined by products of nos.
1075,bacteria-triggered cd4+ t regulatory cells suppress helicobacter hepaticus–induced colitis,we have previously demonstrated that interleukin (il)-10–deficient (il-10 knockout [ko]) but not wild-type (wt) mice develop colitis after infection with helicobacter hepaticus . here  we show that infected recombination activating gene (rag) ko mice develop intestinal inflammation after reconstitution with cd4+ t cells from il-10 ko animals and that the cotransfer of cd4+ t cells from h. hepaticus –infected but not uninfected wt mice prevents this colitis. the disease-protective wt cd4+ cells are contained within the cd45rblow fraction and unexpectedly were found in both the cd25+ and the cd25− subpopulations of these cells  their frequency being higher in the latter. the mechanism by which cd25+ and cd25− cd45rblow cd4+ cells block colitis involves il-10 and not transforming growth factor (tgf)-β  as treatment with anti–il-10r but not anti–tgf-β monoclonal antibody abrogated their protective effect. in vitro  cd45rblow cd4+ cells from infected wt mice were shown to produce il-10 and suppress interferon-γ production by il-10 ko cd4+ cells in an h. hepaticus antigen–specific manner. together  our data support the concept that h. hepaticus infection results in the induction in wt mice of regulatory t cells that prevent bacteria-induced colitis. the induction of such cells in response to gut flora may be a mechanism protecting normal individuals against inflammatory bowel disease.
1077,shc coordinates signals from intercellular junctions and integrins to regulate flow-induced inflammation,atherosclerotic plaques develop in regions of the vasculature associated with chronic inflammation due to disturbed flow patterns. endothelial phenotype modulation by flow requires the integration of numerous mechanotransduction pathways  but how this is achieved is not well understood. we show here that  in response to flow  the adaptor protein shc is activated and associates with cell-cell and cell-matrix adhesions. shc activation requires the tyrosine kinases vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 and src. shc activation and its vascular endothelial cadherin (ve-cadherin) association are matrix independent. in contrast  shc binding to integrins requires ve-cadherin but occurs only on specific matrices. silencing shc results in reduction in both matrix-independent and matrix-dependent signals. furthermore  shc regulates flow-induced inflammatory signaling by activating nuclear factor kappab-dependent signals that lead to atherogenesis. in vivo  shc is activated in atherosclerosis-prone regions of arteries  and its activation correlates with areas of atherosclerosis. our results support a model in which shc orchestrates signals from cell-cell and cell-matrix adhesions to elicit flow-induced inflammatory signaling.
1079,bariatric surgery in the united kingdom: a cohort study of weight loss and clinical outcomes in routine clinical care.,background bariatric surgery is becoming a more widespread treatment for obesity. comprehensive evidence of the long-term effects of contemporary surgery on a broad range of clinical outcomes in large populations treated in routine clinical practice is lacking. the objective of this study was to measure the association between bariatric surgery  weight  body mass index  and obesity-related co-morbidities. methods and findings this was an observational retrospective cohort study using data from the united kingdom clinical practice research datalink. all 3 882 patients registered in the database and with bariatric surgery on or before 31 december 2014 were included and matched by propensity score to 3 882 obese patients without surgery. the main outcome measures were change in weight and body mass index over 4 y; incident diagnoses of type 2 diabetes mellitus (t2dm)  hypertension  angina  myocardial infarction (mi)  stroke  fractures  obstructive sleep apnoea  and cancer; mortality; and resolution of hypertension and t2dm. weight measures were available for 3 847 patients between 1 and 4 mo  2 884 patients between 5 and 12 mo  and 2 258 patients between 13 and 48 mo post-procedure. bariatric surgery patients exhibited rapid weight loss for the first four postoperative months  at a rate of 4.98 kg/mo (95% ci 4.88-5.08). slower weight loss was sustained to the end of 4 y. gastric bypass (6.56 kg/mo) and sleeve gastrectomy (6.29 kg/mo) were associated with greater initial weight reduction than gastric banding (2.77 kg/mo). protective hazard ratios (hrs) were detected for bariatric surgery for incident t2dm  0.68 (95% ci 0.55-0.83); hypertension  0.35 (95% ci 0.27-0.45); angina  0.59 (95% ci 0.40-0.87);mi  0.28 (95% ci 0.10-0.74); and obstructive sleep apnoea  0.55 (95% ci 0.40-0.87). strong associations were found between bariatric surgery and the resolution of t2dm  with a hr of 9.29 (95% ci 6.84-12.62)  and between bariatric surgery and the resolution of hypertension  with a hr of 5.64 (95% ci 2.65-11.99). no association was detected between bariatric surgery and fractures  cancer  or stroke. effect estimates for mortality found no protective association with bariatric surgery overall  with a hr of 0.97 (95% ci 0.66-1.43). the data used were recorded for the management of patients in primary care and may be subject to inaccuracy  which would tend to lead to underestimates of true relative effect sizes. conclusions bariatric surgery as delivered in the uk healthcare system is associated with dramatic weight loss  sustained at least 4 y after surgery. this weight loss is accompanied by substantial improvements in pre-existing t2dm and hypertension  as well as a reduced risk of incident t2dm  hypertension  angina  mi  and obstructive sleep apnoea. widening the availability of bariatric surgery could lead to substantial health benefits for many people who are morbidly obese.
1081,hepatitis c virus infection in a large cohort of homosexually active men: independent associations with hiv-1 infection and injecting drug use but not sexual behaviour.,objective to determine the prevalence and risk factors for hepatitis c virus (hcv) infection in a cohort of homosexually active men  with particular reference to assessing sexual transmission. design prevalence based on cross-sectional testing for hcv (c100 protein) antibody in a cohort using sera stored between 1984 and 1989  and assessment of risk factors using a case-control analysis based on questionnaire data from hcv positive and negative subjects. subjects/setting 1038 homosexually active men who were participating in a prospective study established to identify risk factors for aids. they had been recruited through private and public primary care and sexually transmissible disease (std) services in central sydney. main outcome measures prevalence of hcv antibody and its association with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (hiv-1) infection and other stds  number of sexual partners  sexual practices and recreational drug use. results overall  7.6% of subjects tested were seropositive for hcv antibody. in univariate analysis  hcv infection was significantly associated with injecting drug use (idu) (or = 8.18  p < 0.0001) and hiv infection (or = 3.14  p < 0.0001) and with self reported history of syphilis (or = 1.88  p = 0.016)  anogenital herpes (or = 1.93  p = 0.017)  gonorrhoea (or = 2.43  p = 0.009) and hepatitis b (or = 1.92  p = 0.010). in case control analysis  similar sexual behaviours (partner numbers and practices) were reported by hcv positive and hcv negative subjects except that hcv negative subjects more frequently reported engaging than hcv positive subject in unprotected receptive anal intercourse without ejaculation (or = 0.61  p = 0.034)  unprotected insertive (or = 0.59  p = 0.039) and receptive (or = 0.56  p = 0.016) oro-anal intercourse (rimming) and insertive fisting (or = 0.48  p = 0.034). in multiple logistic regression analyses  only hiv-1 infection (or = 3.18  p < 0.0001) and idu in the previous six months (or = 7.24  p < 0.0001) remained significantly associated with the presence of hcv antibody. conclusions idu was the major behavioural risk factor for hcv infection. if sexual or another from of transmission did occur  it may have been facilitated by concurrent hiv-1 infection.
1083,anti-obesity drugs: past  present and future,the ideal anti-obesity drug would produce sustained weight loss with minimal side effects. the mechanisms that regulate energy balance have substantial built-in redundancy  overlap considerably with other physiological functions  and are influenced by social  hedonic and psychological factors that limit the effectiveness of pharmacological interventions. it is therefore unsurprising that anti-obesity drug discovery programmes have been littered with false starts  failures in clinical development  and withdrawals due to adverse effects that were not fully appreciated at the time of launch. drugs that target pathways in metabolic tissues  such as adipocytes  liver and skeletal muscle  have shown potential in preclinical studies but none has yet reached clinical development. recent improvements in the understanding of peptidergic signalling of hunger and satiety from the gastrointestinal tract mediated by ghrelin  cholecystokinin (cck)  peptide yy (pyy) and glucagon-like peptide-1 (glp-1)  and of homeostatic mechanisms related to leptin and its upstream pathways in the hypothalamus  have opened up new possibilities. although some have now reached clinical development  it is uncertain whether they will meet the strict regulatory hurdles required for licensing of an anti-obesity drug. however  glp-1 receptor agonists have already succeeded in diabetes treatment and  owing to their attractive body-weight-lowering effects in humans  will perhaps also pave the way for other anti-obesity agents. to succeed in developing drugs that control body weight to the extent seen following surgical intervention  it seems obvious that a new paradigm is needed. in other therapeutic arenas  such as diabetes and hypertension  lower doses of multiple agents targeting different pathways often yield better results than strategies that modify one pathway alone. some combination approaches using peptides and small molecules have now reached clinical trials  although recent regulatory experience suggests that large challenges lie ahead. in future  this polytherapeutic strategy could possibly rival surgery in terms of efficacy  safety and sustainability of weight loss.
1085,prevalence  risk factors  and uptake of interventions for sexually transmitted infections in britain: findings from the national surveys of sexual attitudes and lifestyles (natsal),background population-based estimates of prevalence  risk distribution  and intervention uptake inform delivery of control programmes for sexually transmitted infections (stis). we undertook the third national survey of sexual attitudes and lifestyles (natsal-3) after implementation of national sexual health strategies  and describe the epidemiology of four stis in britain (england  scotland  and wales) and the uptake of interventions. methods between sept 6  2010 and aug 31  2012   we did a probability sample survey of 15 162 women and men aged 16-74 years in britain. participants were interviewed with computer-assisted face-to-face and self-completion questionnaires. urine from a sample of participants aged 16-44 years who reported at least one sexual partner over the lifetime was tested for the presence of chlamydia trachomatis  type-specific human papillomavirus (hpv)  neisseria gonorrhoeae  and hiv antibody. we describe age-specific and sex-specific prevalences of infection and intervention uptake  in relation to demographic and behavioural factors  and explore changes since natsal-1 (1990-91) and natsal-2 (1999-2001). findings of 8047 eligible participants invited to provide a urine sample  4828 (60%) agreed. we excluded 278 samples  leaving 4550 (94%) participants with sti test results. chlamydia prevalence was 1·5% (95% ci 1·1-2·0) in women and 1·1% (0·7-1·6) in men. prevalences in individuals aged 16-24 years were 3·1% (2·2-4·3) in women and 2·3% (1·5-3·4) in men. area-level deprivation and higher numbers of partners  especially without use of condoms  were risk factors. however  60·4% (45·5-73·7) of chlamydia in women and 43·3% (25·9-62·5) in men was in individuals who had had one partner in the past year. among sexually active 16-24-year-olds  54·2% (51·4-56·9) of women and 34·6% (31·8-37·4) of men reported testing for chlamydia in the past year  with testing higher in those with more partners. high-risk hpv was detected in 15·9% (14·4-17·5) of women  similar to in natsal-2. coverage of hpv catch-up vaccination was 61·5% (58·2-64·7). prevalence of hpv types 16 and 18 in women aged 18-20 years was lower in natsal-3 than natsal-2 (5·8% [3·9-8·6] vs 11·3% [6·8-18·2]; age-adjusted odds ratio 0·44 [0·21-0·94]). gonorrhoea (<0·1% prevalence in women and men) and hiv (0·1% prevalence in women and 0·2% in men) were uncommon and restricted to participants with recognised high-risk factors. since natsal-2  substantial increases were noted in attendance at sexual health clinics (from 6·7% to 21·4% in women and from 7·7% to 19·6% in men) and hiv testing (from 8·7% to 27·6% in women and from 9·2% to 16·9% in men) in the past 5 years. interpretation stis were distributed heterogeneously  requiring general and infection-specific interventions. increases in testing and attendance at sexual health clinics  especially in people at highest risk  are encouraging. however  stis persist both in individuals accessing and those not accessing services. our findings provide empirical evidence to inform future sexual health interventions and services. funding grants from the uk medical research council and the wellcome trust  with support from the economic and social research council and the department of health.
1087,differential transcription of the orphan receptor rorbeta in nuclear extracts derived from neuro2a and hela cells.,an important model system for studying the process leading to productive transcription is provided by the superfamily of nuclear receptors  which are for the most part ligand-controlled transcription factors. over the past years several 'orphan' nuclear receptors have been isolated for which no ligand has yet been identified. very little is known about how these 'orphan' receptors regulate transcription. in this study we have analysed the biochemical and transcriptional properties of the neuronally expressed orphan nuclear receptor rorbeta (nr1f2) and compared them with the retinoic acid receptor heterodimer rxralpha-raralpha (nr2b1-nr1b1) and gal-vp16 in vitro. although rorbeta binds to its dna-binding sites with comparatively low affinity  it efficiently directs transcription in nuclear extracts derived from a neuronal cell line  neuro2a  but not in nuclear extracts from non-neuronal hela cells. in contrast  rxralpha-raralpha and the acidic transcription factor gal-vp16 support transcription in neuro2a and hela nuclear extracts equally efficiently. these observations point to a different (co)factor requirement for transactivation by members of the nr1 subfamily of nuclear receptors.
1089,analysis of the interaction of primate retroviruses with the human rna interference machinery.,the question of whether retroviruses  including human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (hiv-1)  interact with the cellular rna interference machinery has been controversial. here  we present data showing that neither hiv-1 nor human t-cell leukemia virus type 1 (htlv-1) expresses significant levels of either small interfering rnas or micrornas in persistently infected t cells. we also demonstrate that the retroviral nuclear transcription factors hiv-1 tat and htlv-1 tax  as well as the tas transactivator encoded by primate foamy virus  fail to inhibit rna interference in human cells. moreover  the stable expression of physiological levels of hiv-1 tat did not globally inhibit microrna production or expression in infected human cells. together  these data argue that hiv-1 and htlv-1 neither induce the production of viral small interfering rnas or micrornas nor repress the cellular rna interference machinery in infected cells.
1091,strain improvement by metabolic engineering: lysine production as a case study for systems biology.,a central goal of systems biology is the elucidation of cell function and physiology through the integrated use of broad based genomic and physiological data. such systemic approaches have been employed extensively in the past  as they are a central element of metabolic flux analysis  the distribution of kinetic control in pathways  and the key differentiating characteristic of metabolic engineering. in one case study  these tools have been applied to the improvement of lysine-producing strains of corynebacterium glutamicum. the systematic study of the physiology of this organism allowed the identification of specific metabolic targets and subsequently led to significant improvements in product yield and productivity. this case study can serve as a guide for the development of systems biology tools for the utilization of large volumes of cell- and genome-wide transcriptional and physiological data.
1093,local changes in lipid environment of tcr microclusters regulate membrane binding by the cd3ε cytoplasmic domain,the cd3ε and ζ cytoplasmic domains of the t cell receptor bind to the inner leaflet of the plasma membrane (pm)  and a previous nuclear magnetic resonance structure showed that both tyrosines of the cd3ε immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif partition into the bilayer. electrostatic interactions between acidic phospholipids and clusters of basic cd3ε residues were previously shown to be essential for cd3ε and ζ membrane binding. phosphatidylserine (ps) is the most abundant negatively charged lipid on the inner leaflet of the pm and makes a major contribution to membrane binding by the cd3ε cytoplasmic domain. here  we show that tcr triggering by peptide--mhc complexes induces dissociation of the cd3ε cytoplasmic domain from the plasma membrane. release of the cd3ε cytoplasmic domain from the membrane is accompanied by a substantial focal reduction in negative charge and available ps in tcr microclusters. these changes in the lipid composition of tcr microclusters even occur when tcr signaling is blocked with a src kinase inhibitor. local changes in the lipid composition of tcr microclusters thus render the cd3ε cytoplasmic domain accessible during early stages of t cell activation.
1095,virus-plus-susceptibility gene interaction determines crohn's disease gene atg16l1 phenotypes in intestine,it is unclear why disease occurs in only a small proportion of persons carrying common risk alleles of disease susceptibility genes. here we demonstrate that an interaction between a specific virus infection and a mutation in the crohn's disease susceptibility gene atg16l1 induces intestinal pathologies in mice. this virus-plus-susceptibility gene interaction generated abnormalities in granule packaging and unique patterns of gene expression in paneth cells. further  the response to injury induced by the toxic substance dextran sodium sulfate was fundamentally altered to include pathologies resembling aspects of crohn's disease. these pathologies triggered by virus-plus-susceptibility gene interaction were dependent on tnfalpha and ifngamma and were prevented by treatment with broad spectrum antibiotics. thus  we provide a specific example of how a virus-plus-susceptibility gene interaction can  in combination with additional environmental factors and commensal bacteria  determine the phenotype of hosts carrying common risk alleles for inflammatory disease.
1097,epigenetics in diabetic nephropathy  immunity and metabolism,when it comes to the epigenome  there is a fine line between clarity and confusion-walk that line and you will discover another fascinating level of transcription control. with the genetic code representing the cornerstone of rules for information that is encoded to proteins somewhere above the genome level there is a set of rules by which chemical information is also read. these epigenetic modifications show a different side of the genetic code that is diverse and regulated  hence modifying genetic transcription transiently  ranging from short- to long-term alterations. while this complexity brings exquisite control it also poses a formidable challenge to efforts to decode mechanisms underlying complex disease. recent technological and computational advances have improved unbiased acquisition of epigenomic patterns to improve our understanding of the complex chromatin landscape. key to resolving distinct chromatin signatures of diabetic complications is the identification of the true physiological targets of regulatory proteins  such as reader proteins that recognise  writer proteins that deposit and eraser proteins that remove specific chemical moieties. but how might a diverse group of proteins regulate the diabetic landscape from an epigenomic perspective? drawing from an ever-expanding compendium of experimental and clinical studies  this review details the current state-of-play and provides a perspective of chromatin-dependent mechanisms implicated in diabetic complications  with a special focus on diabetic nephropathy. we hypothesise a codified signature of the diabetic epigenome and provide examples of prime candidates for chemical modification. as for the pharmacological control of epigenetic marks  we explore future strategies to expedite and refine the search for clinically relevant discoveries. we also consider the challenges associated with therapeutic strategies targeting epigenetic pathways.
1099,pointing in the right direction: new developments in the field of planar cell polarity,planar cell polarity (pcp) is observed in an array of developmental processes that involve collective cell movement and tissue organization  and its disruption can lead to severe developmental defects. recent studies in flies and vertebrates have identified new functions for pcp as well as new signalling components  and have proposed new mechanistic models. however  despite this progress  the search to simplify principles of understanding continues and important mechanistic uncertainties still pose formidable challenges.
1101,interchangeability of biosimilars: a european perspective,many of the best-selling ‘blockbuster’ biological medicinal products are  or will soon be  facing competition from similar biological medicinal products (biosimilars) in the eu. biosimilarity is based on the comparability concept  which has been used successfully for several decades to ensure close similarity of a biological product before and after a manufacturing change. over the last 10 years  experience with biosimilars has shown that even complex biotechnology-derived proteins can be copied successfully. most best-selling biologicals are used for chronic treatment. this has triggered intensive discussion on the interchangeability of a biosimilar with its reference product  with the main concern being immunogenicity. we explore the theoretical basis of the presumed risks of switching between a biosimilar and its reference product and the available data on switches. our conclusion is that a switch between comparable versions of the same active substance approved in accordance with eu legislation is not expected to trigger or enhance immunogenicity. on the basis of current knowledge  it is unlikely and very difficult to substantiate that two products  comparable on a population level  would have different safety or efficacy in individual patients upon a switch. our conclusion is that biosimilars licensed in the eu are interchangeable.
1103,crystal structure of a nucleosome core particle containing the variant histone h2a.z,activation of transcription within chromatin has been correlated with the incorporation of the essential histone variant h2a.z into nucleosomes. h2a.z and other histone variants may establish structurally distinct chromosomal domains; however  the molecular mechanism by which they function is largely unknown. here we report the 2.6 å crystal structure of a nucleosome core particle containing the histone variant h2a.z. the overall structure is similar to that of the previously reported 2.8 å nucleosome structure containing major histone proteins. however  distinct localized changes result in the subtle destabilization of the interaction between the (h2a.z–h2b) dimer and the (h3–h4)2 tetramer. moreover  h2a.z nucleosomes have an altered surface that includes a metal ion. this altered surface may lead to changes in higher order structure  and/or could result in the association of specific nuclear proteins with h2a.z. finally  incorporation of h2a.z and h2a within the same nucleosome is unlikely  due to significant changes in the interface between the two h2a.z–h2b dimers.
1105,targeting tumor-necrosis factor receptor pathways for tumor immunotherapy,with the success of ipilimumab and promise of programmed death-1 pathway-targeted agents  the field of tumor immunotherapy is expanding rapidly. newer targets for clinical development include select members of the tumor necrosis factor receptor (tnfr) family. agonist antibodies to these co-stimulatory molecules target both t and b cells  modulating t-cell activation and enhancing immune responses. in vitro and in vivo preclinical data have provided the basis for continued development of 4-1bb  ox40  glucocorticoid-induced tnfr-related gene  herpes virus entry mediator  and cd27 as potential therapies for patients with cancer. in this review  we summarize the immune response to tumors  consider preclinical and early clinical data on select tnfr family members  discuss potential translational challenges and suggest possible combination therapies with the aim of inducing durable antitumor responses.
1107,the nlrp3 inflammasome functions as a driver of the myelodysplastic syndrome phenotype.,despite genetic heterogeneity  myelodysplastic syndromes (mdss) share features of cytological dysplasia and ineffective hematopoiesis. we report that a hallmark of mdss is activation of the nlrp3 inflammasome  which drives clonal expansion and pyroptotic cell death. independent of genotype  mds hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (hspcs) overexpress inflammasome proteins and manifest activated nlrp3 complexes that direct activation of caspase-1  generation of interleukin-1β (il-1β) and il-18  and pyroptotic cell death. mechanistically  pyroptosis is triggered by the alarmin s100a9 that is found in excess in mds hspcs and bone marrow plasma. further  like somatic gene mutations  s100a9-induced signaling activates nadph oxidase (nox)  increasing levels of reactive oxygen species (ros) that initiate cation influx  cell swelling  and β-catenin activation. notably  knockdown of nlrp3 or caspase-1  neutralization of s100a9  and pharmacologic inhibition of nlrp3 or nox suppress pyroptosis  ros generation  and nuclear β-catenin in mdss and are sufficient to restore effective hematopoiesis. thus  alarmins and founder gene mutations in mdss license a common redox-sensitive inflammasome circuit  which suggests new avenues for therapeutic intervention.
1109,the role of epigenetics in aging and age-related diseases,the role of epigenetics in aging and age-related diseases is a key issue in molecular physiology and medicine because certain epigenetic factors are thought to mediate  at least in part  the relationship between the genome and the environment. an active role for epigenetics in aging must meet two prior conditions: there must be specific epigenetic changes during aging and they must be functionally associated with the aged phenotype. assuming that specific epigenetic modifications can have a direct functional outcome in aging  it is also essential to establish whether they depend on genetic  environmental or stochastic factors  and if they can be transmitted from one generation to the next. here we discuss current knowledge about these matters and future directions in the field.
1111,highly efficient mirna-mediated reprogramming of mouse and human somatic cells to pluripotency.,transcription factor-based cellular reprogramming has opened the way to converting somatic cells to a pluripotent state  but has faced limitations resulting from the requirement for transcription factors and the relative inefficiency of the process. we show here that expression of the mir302/367 cluster rapidly and efficiently reprograms mouse and human somatic cells to an ipsc state without a requirement for exogenous transcription factors. this mirna-based reprogramming approach is two orders of magnitude more efficient than standard oct4/sox2/klf4/myc-mediated methods. mouse and human mir302/367 ipscs display similar characteristics to oct4/sox2/klf4/myc-ipscs  including pluripotency marker expression  teratoma formation  and  for mouse cells  chimera contribution and germline contribution. we found that mir367 expression is required for mir302/367-mediated reprogramming and activates oct4 gene expression  and that suppression of hdac2 is also required. thus  our data show that mirna and hdac-mediated pathways can cooperate in a powerful way to reprogram somatic cells to pluripotency.
1113,glucose sensing in l cells: a primary cell study,glucagon-like peptide-1 (glp-1) is an enteric hormone that stimulates insulin secretion and improves glycaemia in type 2 diabetes. although glp-1-based treatments are clinically available  alternative strategies to increase endogenous glp-1 release from l cells are hampered by our limited physiological understanding of this cell type. by generating transgenic mice with l cell-specific expression of a fluorescent protein  we studied the characteristics of primary l cells by electrophysiology  fluorescence calcium imaging  and expression analysis and show that single l cells are electrically excitable and glucose responsive. sensitivity to tolbutamide and low-millimolar concentrations of glucose and alpha-methylglucopyranoside  assessed in single l cells and by hormone secretion from primary cultures  suggested that glp-1 release is regulated by the activity of sodium glucose cotransporter 1 and atp-sensitive k(+) channels  consistent with their high expression levels in purified l cells by quantitative rt-pcr. these and other pathways identified using this approach will provide exciting opportunities for future physiological and therapeutic exploration.
1115,regulation of admp and bmp2/4/7 at opposite embryonic poles generates a self-regulating morphogenetic field,embryos have the ability to self-regulate and regenerate normal structures after being sectioned in half. how is such a morphogenetic field established? we discovered that quadruple knockdown of admp and bmp2/4/7 in xenopus embryos eliminates self-regulation  causing ubiquitous neural induction throughout the ectoderm. admp transcription in the spemann organizer is activated at low bmp levels. when ventral bmp2/4/7 signals are depleted  admp expression increases  allowing for self-regulation. admp has bmp-like activity and signals via the alk-2 receptor. it is unable to signal dorsally because of inhibition by chordin. the ventral bmp antagonists sizzled and bambi further refine the pattern. by transplanting dorsal or ventral wild-type grafts into admp/bmp2/4/7-depleted hosts  we demonstrate that both poles serve as signaling centers that can induce histotypic differentiation over considerable distances. we conclude that dorsal and ventral bmp signals and their extracellular antagonists expressed under opposing transcriptional regulation provide a molecular mechanism for embryonic self-regulation.
1117,colorectal cancers from distinct ancestral populations show variations in braf mutation frequency,it has been demonstrated for some cancers that the frequency of somatic oncogenic mutations may vary in ancestral populations. to determine whether key driver alterations might occur at different frequencies in colorectal cancer  we applied a high-throughput genotyping platform (oncomap) to query 385 mutations across 33 known cancer genes in colorectal cancer dna from 83 asian  149 black and 195 white patients. we found that asian patients had fewer canonical oncogenic mutations in the genes tested (60% vs black 79% (p = 0.011) and white 77% (p = 0.015))  and that braf mutations occurred at a higher frequency in white patients (17% vs asian 4% (p = 0.004) and black 7% (p = 0.014)). these results suggest that the use of genomic approaches to elucidate the different ancestral determinants harbored by patient populations may help to more precisely and effectively treat colorectal cancer.
1119,cell fusion hypothesis of the cancer stem cell.,a major advance in recent cancer research is the identification of tumor cells with stem cell-like properties. cancer stem cells (cscs) often represent a rare population in the tumor mass and possess the exclusive ability to initiate the growth of a heterogeneous tumor. the origin of cscs remains elusive and is likely to be cancer type specific. one possible but under-appreciated potential mechanism for the generation of cscs is through fusion between stem cells and differentiated cells. the cell fusion hypothesis of cscs adds an important functional underpinning to the potential multifaceted roles of cell fusion in the initiation and progression of cancer.
1121,physician knowledge levels and barriers to coronary risk prevention in women: survey results from the women and heart disease physician education initiative.,background few studies have examined whether physician knowledge  attitudes  or practice patterns might contribute to gender disparities in the primary prevention of coronary heart disease (chd)  including among physicians caring for the largest number of reproductive-age women  obstetricians and gynecologists (ob/gyns). we sought to identify barriers affecting the provision of recommended coronary risk factor therapies in women. methods we surveyed internists and ob/gyns who attended grand rounds presentations developed for the new york state women and heart disease physician education initiative. this program was designed to improve screening and management of coronary risk factors in women. attendees were asked to complete a 7-minute questionnaire. results the mean age of the 529 respondents was 40.3 years (standard deviation = 12.3)  75.1% were internists (n=378)  and 42.7% (n=226) were women. physicians correctly responded to 71.5% of the 13 questions assessing knowledge of coronary risk prevention (range  4-13). almost one third of internists and half of the ob/gyns did not know that tobacco use was the leading cause of myocardial infarction in young women. for patients who smoked tobacco  only two thirds of internists and 55.4% of ob/gyns reported suggesting a quit date (p=.007). after controlling for covariates  physicians who did not perceive time as a barrier were more likely to discuss smoking cessation (odds ratio=1.7 [1.1-2.7]). conclusions among the internists and ob/gyns surveyed  time was perceived as a barrier to implementing risk prevention. these physicians also underestimated the impact of tobacco use as a risk factor for chd in young women. to lessen gender disparities in chd prevention  both specialties need time-efficient educational programs that reflect specialty differences.
1123,postnatal development of adipocyte cellularity in the normal rat.,it has been shown by several investigators that adipocyte number is stable in mature human beings and several species of rodents. although the number of new cells appearing in the adipose depot can be measured histometrically and by coulter counting of osmium-fixed cells  such methods do not distinguish between "lipid filling" of preexistent adipocytes and synthesis of new adipocytes. the experiments reported here using in vivo injection of [(3)h]thymidine show that synthesis of new adipocytes in the sprague-dawley rat continues after birth and ceases before sexual maturity. furthermore  during the second and third postnatal weeks  a "bed" of preadipocytes is synthesized. preadipocytes may take as long as 30 days to appear as mature adipocytes.
1125,sphingosine kinase 1 regulates the akt/foxo3a/bim pathway and contributes to apoptosis resistance in glioma cells,the aim of this study was to investigate the mechanism through which sphingosine kinase-1 (sphk1) exerts its anti-apoptosis activity in glioma cancer cells. we here report that dysregulation of sphk1 alters the sensitivity of glioma to apoptosis both in vitro and in vivo. further mechanistic study examined the expression of bcl-2 family members  including bcl-2  mcl-1  bax and bim  in sphk1-overexpressing glioma cells and revealed that only pro-apoptotic bim was downregulated by sphk1. moreover  the transcriptional level of bim was also altered by sphk1 in glioma cells. we next confirmed the correlation between sphk1 and bim expression in primary glioma specimens. importantly  increasing sphk1 expression in glioma cells markedly elevated akt activity and phosphorylated inactivation of foxo3a  which led to downregulation of bim. a pharmacological approach showed that these effects of sphk1 were dependent on phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (pi3k). furthermore  effects of sphk1 on akt/foxo3a/bim pathway could be reversed by sphk1 specific rna interference or sphk1 inhibitor. collectively  our results indicate that regulation of the akt/foxo3a/bim pathway may be a novel mechanism by which sphk1 protects glioma cells from apoptosis  thereby involved in glioma tumorigenesis.
1127,structural plasticity of the adult brain: how animal models help us understand brain changes in depression and systemic disorders related to depression,the brain interprets experiences and translates them into behavioral and physiological responses. stressful events are those which are threatening or  at the very least  unexpected and surprising  and the physiological and behavioral responses are intended to promote adaptation via a process called "allostasis. " chemical mediators of allostasis include cortisol and adrenalin from the adrenal glands  other hormones  and neurotransmitters  the parasympathetic and sympathetic nervous systems  and cytokines and chemokines from the immune system. two brain structures  the amygdala and hippocampus  play key roles in interpreting what is stressful and determining appropriate responses. the hippocampus  a key structure for memories of events and contexts  expresses receptors that enable it to respond to glucocorticoid hormones in the blood  it undergoes atrophy in a number of psychiatric disorders; it also responds to stressors with changes in excitability  decreased dendritic branching  and reduction in number of neurons in the dentate gyrus. the amygdala  which is important for "emotional memories  " becomes hyperactive in posttraumatic stress disorder and depressive illness  in animal models of stress  there is evidence for growth and hypertrophy of nerve cells in the amygdala. changes in the brain after acute and chronic stressors mirror the pattern seen in the metabolic  cardiovascular  and immune systems  that is  short-term adaptation (allostasis) followed by long-term damage (allostatic load)  eg  atherosclerosis  fat deposition obesity  bone demineralization  and impaired immune function. allostatic load of this kind is seen in major depressive illness and may also be expressed in other chronic anxiety and mood disorders.
1129,assessing sequence comparison methods with reliable structurally identified distant evolutionary relationships.,pairwise sequence comparison methods have been assessed using proteins whose relationships are known reliably from their structures and functions  as described in the scop database [murzin  a. g.  brenner  s. e.  hubbard  t. & chothia c. (1995) j. mol. biol. 247  536-540]. the evaluation tested the programs blast [altschul  s. f.  gish  w.  miller  w.  myers  e. w. & lipman  d. j. (1990). j. mol. biol. 215  403-410]  wu-blast2 [altschul  s. f. & gish  w. (1996) methods enzymol. 266  460-480]  fasta [pearson  w. r. & lipman  d. j. (1988) proc. natl. acad. sci. usa 85  2444-2448]  and ssearch [smith  t. f. & waterman  m. s. (1981) j. mol. biol. 147  195-197] and their scoring schemes. the error rate of all algorithms is greatly reduced by using statistical scores to evaluate matches rather than percentage identity or raw scores. the e-value statistical scores of ssearch and fasta are reliable: the number of false positives found in our tests agrees well with the scores reported. however  the p-values reported by blast and wu-blast2 exaggerate significance by orders of magnitude. ssearch  fasta ktup = 1  and wu-blast2 perform best  and they are capable of detecting almost all relationships between proteins whose sequence identities are >30%. for more distantly related proteins  they do much less well; only one-half of the relationships between proteins with 20-30% identity are found. because many homologs have low sequence similarity  most distant relationships cannot be detected by any pairwise comparison method; however  those which are identified may be used with confidence.
1131,evaluation of individuals with pulmonary nodules: when is it lung cancer? diagnosis and management of lung cancer  3rd ed: american college of chest physicians evidence-based clinical practice guidelines.,objectives the objective of this article is to update previous evidence-based recommendations for evaluation and management of individuals with solid pulmonary nodules and to generate new recommendations for those with nonsolid nodules. methods we updated prior literature reviews  synthesized evidence  and formulated recommendations by using the methods described in the "methodology for development of guidelines for lung cancer" in the american college of chest physicians lung cancer guidelines  3rd ed. results we formulated recommendations for evaluating solid pulmonary nodules that measure > 8 mm in diameter  solid nodules that measure ≤ 8 mm in diameter  and subsolid nodules. the recommendations stress the value of assessing the probability of malignancy  the utility of imaging tests  the need to weigh the benefits and harms of different management strategies (nonsurgical biopsy  surgical resection  and surveillance with chest ct imaging)  and the importance of eliciting patient preferences. conclusions individuals with pulmonary nodules should be evaluated and managed by estimating the probability of malignancy  performing imaging tests to better characterize the lesions  evaluating the risks associated with various management alternatives  and eliciting their preferences for management.
1133,enterovirus-induced gene expression profile is critical for human pancreatic islet destruction,virally induced inflammatory responses  beta cell destruction and release of beta cell autoantigens may lead to autoimmune reactions culminating in type 1 diabetes. therefore  viral capability to induce beta cell death and the nature of virus-induced immune responses are among key determinants of diabetogenic viruses. we hypothesised that enterovirus infection induces a specific gene expression pattern that results in islet destruction and that such a host response pattern is not shared among all enterovirus infections but varies between virus strains. the changes in global gene expression and secreted cytokine profiles induced by lytic or benign enterovirus infections were studied in primary human pancreatic islet using dna microarrays and viral strains either isolated at the clinical onset of type 1 diabetes or capable of causing a diabetes-like condition in mice. the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokine genes (il-1-α  il-1-β and tnf-α) that also mediate cytokine-induced beta cell dysfunction correlated with the lytic potential of a virus. temporally increasing gene expression levels of double-stranded rna recognition receptors  antiviral molecules  cytokines and chemokines were detected for all studied virus strains. lytic coxsackievirus b5 (cbv-5)-ds infection also downregulated genes involved in glycolysis and insulin secretion. the results suggest a distinct  virus-strain-specific  gene expression pattern leading to pancreatic islet destruction and pro-inflammatory effects after enterovirus infection. however  neither viral replication nor cytotoxic cytokine production alone are sufficient to induce necrotic cell death. more likely the combined effect of these and possibly cellular energy depletion lie behind the enterovirus-induced necrosis of islets.
1135,review of the secondary injury theory of acute spinal cord trauma with emphasis on vascular mechanisms.,in patients with spinal cord injury  the primary or mechanical trauma seldom causes total transection  even though the functional loss may be complete. in addition  biochemical and pathological changes in the cord may worsen after injury. to explain these phenomena  the concept of the secondary injury has evolved for which numerous pathophysiological mechanisms have been postulated. this paper reviews the concept of secondary injury with special emphasis on vascular mechanisms. evidence is presented to support the theory of secondary injury and the hypothesis that a key mechanism is posttraumatic ischemia with resultant infarction of the spinal cord. evidence for the role of vascular mechanisms has been obtained from a variety of models of acute spinal cord injury in several species. many different angiographic methods have been used for assessing microcirculation of the cord and for measuring spinal cord blood flow after trauma. with these techniques  the major systemic and local vascular effects of acute spinal cord injury have been identified and implicated in the etiology of secondary injury. the systemic effects of acute spinal cord injury include hypotension and reduced cardiac output. the local effects include loss of autoregulation in the injured segment of the spinal cord and a marked reduction of the microcirculation in both gray and white matter  especially in hemorrhagic regions and in adjacent zones. the microcirculatory loss extends for a considerable distance proximal and distal to the site of injury. many studies have shown a dose-dependent reduction of spinal cord blood flow varying with the severity of injury  and a reduction of spinal cord blood flow which worsens with time after injury. the functional deficits due to acute spinal cord injury have been measured electrophysiologically with techniques such as motor and somatosensory evoked potentials and have been found proportional to the degree of posttraumatic ischemia. the histological effects include early hemorrhagic necrosis leading to major infarction at the injury site. these posttraumatic vascular effects can be treated. systemic normotension can be restored with volume expansion or vasopressors  and spinal cord blood flow can be improved with dopamine  steroids  nimodipine  or volume expansion. the combination of nimodipine and volume expansion improves posttraumatic spinal cord blood flow and spinal cord function measured by evoked potentials. these results provide strong evidence that posttraumatic ischemia is an important secondary mechanism of injury  and that it can be counteracted.
1137,renal considerations in angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor therapy: a statement for healthcare professionals from the council on the kidney in cardiovascular disease and the council for high blood pressure research of the american heart association.,angiotensin converting enzyme (ace) inhibitors are now one of the most frequently used classes of antihypertensive drugs. beyond their utility in the management of hypertension  their use has been extended to the long-term management of patients with congestive heart failure (chf)  as well as diabetic and nondiabetic nephropathies. although ace inhibitor therapy usually improves renal blood flow (rbf) and sodium excretion rates in chf and reduces the rate of progressive renal injury in chronic renal disease  its use can also be associated with a syndrome of “functional renal insufficiency” and/or hyperkalemia. this form of acute renal failure (arf) most commonly develops shortly after initiation of ace inhibitor therapy but can be observed after months or years of therapy  even in the absence of prior ill effects. arf is most likely to occur when renal perfusion pressure cannot be sustained because of substantial decreases in mean arterial pressure (map) or when glomerular filtration rate (gfr) is highly angiotensin ii (ang ii) dependent. conditions that predict an adverse hemodynamic effect of ace inhibitors in patients with chf are preexisting hypotension and low cardiac filling pressures. the gfr is especially dependent on ang ii during extracellular fluid (ecf) volume depletion  high-grade bilateral renal artery stenosis  or stenosis of a dominant or single kidney  as in a renal transplant recipient. understanding the pathophysiological mechanisms and the common risk factors for ace inhibitor–induced functional arf is critical  because preventive strategies for arf exist  and if effectively used  they may permit use of these compounds in a less restricted fashion. under normal physiological conditions  renal autoregulation adjusts renal vascular resistance  so that rbf and gfr remain constant over a wide range of maps.1 the intrinsic renal autoregulation mechanism is adjusted by ang ii and the sympathetic nervous system. when renal perfusion pressure falls (as in …
1139,kinetics of early t cell receptor signaling regulate the pathway of lytic granule delivery to the secretory domain.,cytolytic granules mediate killing of virus-infected cells by cytotoxic t lymphocytes. we show here that the granules can take long or short paths to the secretory domain. both paths utilized the same intracellular molecular events  which have different spatial and temporal arrangements and are regulated by the kinetics of ca(2+)-mediated signaling. rapid signaling caused swift granule concentration near the microtubule-organizing center (mtoc) and subsequent delivery by the polarized mtoc directly to the secretory domain-the shortest path. indolent signaling led to late recruitment of granules that moved along microtubules to the periphery of the synapse and then moved tangentially to fuse at the outer edge of the secretory domain-a longer path. the short pathway is associated with faster granule release and more efficient killing than the long pathway. thus  the kinetics of early signaling regulates the quality of the t cell cytolytic response.
1141,a culture-independent sequence-based metagenomics approach to the investigation of an outbreak of shiga-toxigenic escherichia coli o104:h4.,importance identification of the bacterium responsible for an outbreak can aid in disease management. however  traditional culture-based diagnosis can be difficult  particularly if no specific diagnostic test is available for an outbreak strain. objective to explore the potential of metagenomics  which is the direct sequencing of dna extracted from microbiologically complex samples  as an open-ended clinical discovery platform capable of identifying and characterizing bacterial strains from an outbreak without laboratory culture. design  setting  and patients in a retrospective investigation  45 samples were selected from fecal specimens obtained from patients with diarrhea during the 2011 outbreak of shiga-toxigenic escherichia coli (stec) o104:h4 in germany. samples were subjected to high-throughput sequencing (august-september 2012)  followed by a 3-phase analysis (november 2012-february 2013). in phase 1  a de novo assembly approach was developed to obtain a draft genome of the outbreak strain. in phase 2  the depth of coverage of the outbreak strain genome was determined in each sample. in phase 3  sequences from each sample were compared with sequences from known bacteria to identify pathogens other than the outbreak strain. main outcomes and measures the recovery of genome sequence data for the purposes of identification and characterization of the outbreak strain and other pathogens from fecal samples. results during phase 1  a draft genome of the stec outbreak strain was obtained. during phase 2  the outbreak strain genome was recovered from 10 samples at greater than 10-fold coverage and from 26 samples at greater than 1-fold coverage. sequences from the shiga-toxin genes were detected in 27 of 40 stec-positive samples (67%). in phase 3  sequences from clostridium difficile  campylobacter jejuni  campylobacter concisus  and salmonella enterica were recovered. conclusions and relevance these results suggest the potential of metagenomics as a culture-independent approach for the identification of bacterial pathogens during an outbreak of diarrheal disease. challenges include improving diagnostic sensitivity  speeding up and simplifying workflows  and reducing costs.
1143,nrf2 protects human alveolar epithelial cells against injury induced by influenza a virus,background influenza a virus (iav) infection primarily targets respiratory epithelial cells and produces clinical outcomes ranging from mild upper respiratory infection to severe pneumonia. recent studies have shown the importance of lung antioxidant defense systems against injury by iav. nuclear factor-erythroid 2 related factor 2 (nrf2) activates the majority of antioxidant genes. methods alveolar type ii (atii) cells and alveolar macrophages (am) were isolated from human lungs not suitable for transplantation and donated for medical research. in some studies atii cells were transdifferentiated to alveolar type i-like (ati-like) cells. alveolar epithelial cells were infected with a/pr/8/34 (pr8) virus. we analyzed pr8 virus production  influenza a nucleoprotein levels  ros generation and expression of antiviral genes. immunocytofluorescence was used to determine nrf2 translocation and western blotting to detect nrf2  ho-1 and caspase 1 and 3 cleavage. we also analyzed ingestion of pr8 virus infected apoptotic atii cells by am  cytokine levels by elisa  glutathione levels  necrosis and apoptosis by tunel assay. moreover  we determined the critical importance of nrf2 using adenovirus nrf2 (adnrf2) or nrf2 sirna to overexpress or knockdown nrf2  respectively. results we found that iav induced oxidative stress  cytotoxicity and apoptosis in ati-like and atii cells. we also found that am can ingest pr8 virus-induced apoptotic atii cells (efferocytosis) but not viable cells  whereas atii cells did not ingest these apoptotic cells. pr8 virus increased ros production  nrf2  ho-1  mx1 and oas1 expression and nrf2 translocation to the nucleus. nrf2 knockdown with sirna sensitized ati-like cells and atii cells to injury induced by iav and overexpression of nrf2 with adnrf2 protected these cells. furthermore  nrf2 overexpression followed by infection with pr8 virus decreased virus replication  influenza a nucleoprotein expression  antiviral response and oxidative stress. however  adnrf2 did not increase ifn-λ1 (il-29) levels. conclusions our results indicate that iav induces alveolar epithelial injury and that nrf2 protects these cells from the cytopathic effects of iav likely by increasing the expression of antioxidant genes. identifying the pathways involved in protecting cells from injury during influenza infection may be particularly important for developing new therapeutic strategies.
1145,management of chronic tension-type headache with tricyclic antidepressant medication  stress management therapy  and their combination: a randomized controlled trial.,context chronic tension-type headaches are characterized by near-daily headaches and often are difficult to manage in primary practice. behavioral and pharmacological therapies each appear modestly effective  but data are lacking on their separate and combined effects. objective to evaluate the clinical efficacy of behavioral and pharmacological therapies  singly and combined  for chronic tension-type headaches. design and setting randomized placebo-controlled trial conducted from august 1995 to january 1998 at 2 outpatient sites in ohio. participants two hundred three adults (mean age  37 years; 76% women) with diagnosis of chronic tension-type headaches (mean  26 headache d/mo). interventions participants were randomly assigned to receive tricyclic antidepressant (amitriptyline hydrochloride  up to 100 mg/d  or nortriptyline hydrochloride  up to 75 mg/d) medication (n = 53)  placebo (n = 48)  stress management (eg  relaxation  cognitive coping) therapy (3 sessions and 2 telephone contacts) plus placebo (n = 49)  or stress management therapy plus antidepressant medication (n = 53). main outcome measures monthly headache index scores calculated as the mean of pain ratings (0-10 scale) recorded by participants in a daily diary 4 times per day; number of days per month with at least moderate pain (pain rating >/=5)  analgesic medication use  and headache disability inventory scores  compared by intervention group. results tricyclic antidepressant medication and stress management therapy each produced larger reductions in headache activity  analgesic medication use  and headache-related disability than placebo  but antidepressant medication yielded more rapid improvements in headache activity. combined therapy was more likely to produce clinically significant (>/=50%) reductions in headache index scores (64% of participants) than antidepressant medication (38% of participants; p =.006)  stress management therapy (35%; p =.003)  or placebo (29%; p =.001). on other measures the combined therapy and its 2 component therapies produced similar outcomes. conclusions our results indicate that antidepressant medication and stress management therapy are each modestly effective in treating chronic tension-type headaches. combined therapy may improve outcome relative to monotherapy.
1147,relationship of soft drink consumption to global overweight  obesity  and diabetes: a cross-national analysis of 75 countries.,objectives we estimated the relationship between soft drink consumption and obesity and diabetes worldwide. methods we used multivariate linear regression to estimate the association between soft drink consumption and overweight  obesity  and diabetes prevalence in 75 countries  controlling for other foods (cereals  meats  fruits and vegetables  oils  and total calories)  income  urbanization  and aging. data were obtained from the euromonitor global market information database  the world health organization  and the international diabetes federation. bottled water consumption  which increased with per-capita income in parallel to soft drink consumption  served as a natural control group. results soft drink consumption increased globally from 9.5 gallons per person per year in 1997 to 11.4 gallons in 2010. a 1% rise in soft drink consumption was associated with an additional 4.8 overweight adults per 100 (adjusted b; 95% confidence interval [ci] = 3.1  6.5)  2.3 obese adults per 100 (95% ci = 1.1  3.5)  and 0.3 adults with diabetes per 100 (95% ci = 0.1  0.8). these findings remained robust in low- and middle-income countries. conclusions soft drink consumption is significantly linked to overweight  obesity  and diabetes worldwide  including in low- and middle-income countries.
1149,simvastatin reduces cd40 expression in an experimental model of early arterialization of saphenous vein graft.,background saphenous vein graft (vg) failure occurs more frequently compared with arterial grafts  and graft thrombosis represents the main cause of early occlusion. because cd40-cd40l pathway cd40 represents a culprit link between local inflammation and coagulation cascade  we investigate the role of cd40 and its soluble ligand (scd40l) in the immediate in vitro response of vg to arterial pressures  and the potential effects of simvastatin (merck sharp&dohme  white-house station  nj) supplementation. methods samples of saphenous vein and of internal mammary artery (ima) were obtained from sixteen patients without history of statin therapy. segments underwent pulsatile pressure distension and culture with or without supplementation of simvastatin. cd40 and scd40l were assessed in tissue lysate and in culture supernatant  respectively. scd40l serum concentrations were also measured. results during the course of the experiment  the cd40 expression was significantly lower in ima samples compared with both distended and not distended vg. pressure distension up-regulated the production of cd40 in vg segments after 24 and 48 h. statin supplementation significantly reduced the expression of cd40 in both venous (p < 0.001) and arterial samples (p < 0.001). this effect of simvastatin was not affected by the treatment with l-name  but it was reversed by the addition of mevalonic acid. mean scd40l content in culture supernatants increased over time  suggesting that not only platelets but also the vessel wall is a source of cd40 and scd40l. conclusions simvastatin treatment modulates endothelial cd40-scd40l in both venous and arterial grafts  and therefore may represent a useful tool in the pharmacological prevention of graft failure.
1151,autophagy deficiency leads to protection from obesity and insulin resistance by inducing fgf21 as a mitokine,despite growing interest and a recent surge in papers  the role of autophagy in glucose and lipid metabolism is unclear. we produced mice with skeletal muscle–specific deletion of atg7 (encoding autophagy-related 7). unexpectedly  these mice showed decreased fat mass and were protected from diet-induced obesity and insulin resistance; this phenotype was accompanied by increased fatty acid oxidation and browning of white adipose tissue (wat) owing to induction of fibroblast growth factor 21 (fgf21). mitochondrial dysfunction induced by autophagy deficiency increased fgf21 expression through induction of atf4  a master regulator of the integrated stress response. mitochondrial respiratory chain inhibitors also induced fgf21 in an atf4-dependent manner. we also observed induction of fgf21  resistance to diet-induced obesity and amelioration of insulin resistance in mice with autophagy deficiency in the liver  another insulin target tissue. these findings suggest that autophagy deficiency and subsequent mitochondrial dysfunction promote fgf21 expression  a hormone we consequently term a 'mitokine'  and together these processes promote protection from diet-induced obesity and insulin resistance.
1153,antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (anca).,antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (anca) are a sensitive and specific marker for anca-associated systemic vasculitis. using indirect immunofluorescence on ethanol-fixed neutrophils  two major fluoroscopic patterns can be recognised: a diffuse cytoplasmic staining (c-anca)  and a perinuclear/nuclear staining (p-anca). in patients with vasculitis  more of 90% of c-anca are directed against proteinase 3 (pr3-anca) whereas approximately 80-90% of p-anca recognise myelperoxidase (mpo-anca). although c-anca (pr3-anca) is preferentially associated with wegener's granulomatosis (wg)  and p-anca (mpo-anca) with microscopic polyangiitis (mpa)  idiopathic necrotising crescentic glomerulonephritis (incgn) and churg-strauss syndrome (css)  there is not absolute specificity. between 10-20% of patients with classical wg show p-anca (mpo-anca)  and even a larger percentage of patients with mpa or css have c-anca (pr3-anca). furthermore  it should be stressed that approximately 10-20% of patients with wg or mpa (and 40-50% of cases of css) have negative assay for anca. the best diagnostic performance is obtained when indirect immunofluorescence is combined with pr3 and mpo-specific elisas. anca with different and unknown antigen specificity are found in a variety of conditions other than aasv  including inflammatory bowel diseases  other autoimmune diseases  and infections where their clinical significance is unclear. anca levels are useful to monitor disease activity but should not be used by themselves to guide treatment. a significant increase in anca titres  or the reappearance of anca  should alert the clinicians and lead to a stricter patient control.
1155,regulation of pluripotency by rna binding proteins.,establishment  maintenance  and exit from pluripotency require precise coordination of a cell's molecular machinery. substantial headway has been made in deciphering many aspects of this elaborate system  particularly with respect to epigenetics  transcription  and noncoding rnas. less attention has been paid to posttranscriptional regulatory processes such as alternative splicing  rna processing and modification  nuclear export  regulation of transcript stability  and translation. here  we introduce the rna binding proteins that enable the posttranscriptional regulation of gene expression  summarizing current and ongoing research on their roles at different regulatory points and discussing how they help script the fate of pluripotent stem cells.
1157,myeloid differentiation factor-88/interleukin-1 signaling controls cardiac fibrosis and heart failure progression in inflammatory dilated cardiomyopathy.,rationale the myeloid differentiation factor (myd)88/interleukin (il)-1 axis activates self-antigen-presenting cells and promotes autoreactive cd4(+) t-cell expansion in experimental autoimmune myocarditis  a mouse model of inflammatory heart disease. objective the aim of this study was to determine the role of myd88 and il-1 in the progression of acute myocarditis to an end-stage heart failure. methods and results using alpha-myosin heavy chain peptide (myhc-alpha)-loaded  activated dendritic cells  we induced myocarditis in wild-type and myd88(-/-) mice with similar distributions of heart-infiltrating cell subsets and comparable cd4(+) t-cell responses. injection of complete freund's adjuvant (cfa) or myhc-alpha/cfa into diseased mice promoted cardiac fibrosis  induced ventricular dilation  and impaired heart function in wild-type but not in myd88(-/-) mice. experiments with chimeric mice confirmed the bone marrow origin of the fibroblasts replacing inflammatory infiltrates and showed that myd88 and il-1 receptor type i signaling on bone marrow-derived cells was critical for development of cardiac fibrosis during progression to heart failure. conclusions our findings indicate a critical role of myd88/il-1 signaling in the bone marrow compartment in postinflammatory cardiac fibrosis and heart failure and point to novel therapeutic strategies against inflammatory cardiomyopathy.
1159,conversion of vascular endothelial cells into multipotent stem-like cells,mesenchymal stem cells can give rise to several cell types  but varying results depending on isolation methods and tissue source have led to controversies about their usefulness in clinical medicine. here we show that vascular endothelial cells can transform into multipotent stem-like cells by an activin-like kinase-2 (alk2) receptor–dependent mechanism. in lesions from individuals with fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva (fop)  a disease in which heterotopic ossification occurs as a result of activating alk2 mutations  or from transgenic mice expressing constitutively active alk2  chondrocytes and osteoblasts expressed endothelial markers. lineage tracing of heterotopic ossification in mice using a tie2-cre construct also suggested an endothelial origin of these cell types. expression of constitutively active alk2 in endothelial cells caused endothelial-to-mesenchymal transition and acquisition of a stem cell–like phenotype. similar results were obtained by treatment of untransfected endothelial cells with the ligands transforming growth factor-β2 (tgf-β2) or bone morphogenetic protein-4 (bmp4) in an alk2-dependent manner. these stem-like cells could be triggered to differentiate into osteoblasts  chondrocytes or adipocytes. we suggest that conversion of endothelial cells to stem-like cells may provide a new approach to tissue engineering.
1161,low copy number of the salivary amylase gene predisposes to obesity,common multi-allelic copy number variants (cnvs) appear enriched for phenotypic associations compared to their biallelic counterparts. here we investigated the influence of gene dosage effects on adiposity through a cnv association study of gene expression levels in adipose tissue. we identified significant association of a multi-allelic cnv encompassing the salivary amylase gene (amy1) with body mass index (bmi) and obesity  and we replicated this finding in 6 200 subjects. increased amy1 copy number was positively associated with both amylase gene expression (p = 2.31 × 10(-14)) and serum enzyme levels (p < 2.20 × 10(-16))  whereas reduced amy1 copy number was associated with increased bmi (change in bmi per estimated copy = -0.15 (0.02) kg/m(2); p = 6.93 × 10(-10)) and obesity risk (odds ratio (or) per estimated copy = 1.19  95% confidence interval (ci) = 1.13-1.26; p = 1.46 × 10(-10)). the or value of 1.19 per copy of amy1 translates into about an eightfold difference in risk of obesity between subjects in the top (copy number > 9) and bottom (copy number < 4) 10% of the copy number distribution. our study provides a first genetic link between carbohydrate metabolism and bmi and demonstrates the power of integrated genomic approaches beyond genome-wide association studies.
1163,role of boundary conditions in an experimental model of epithelial wound healing.,coordinated cell movements in epithelial layers are essential for proper tissue morphogenesis and homeostasis  but our understanding of the mechanisms that coordinate the behavior of multiple cells in these processes is far from complete. recent experiments with madin-darby canine kidney epithelial monolayers revealed a wave-like pattern of injury-induced mapk activation and showed that it is essential for collective cell migration after wounding. to investigate the effects of the different aspects of wounding on cell sheet migration  we engineered a system that allowed us to dissect the classic wound healing assay. we studied madin-darby canine kidney sheet migration under three different conditions: 1) the classic wound healing assay  2) empty space induction  where a confluent monolayer is grown adjacent to a slab of polydimethylsiloxane and the monolayer is not injured but allowed to migrate upon removal of the slab  and 3) injury via polydimethylsiloxane membrane peel-off  where an injured monolayer migrates onto plain tissue culture surface  as in the case of empty space induction allowing for direct comparison. by tracking the motion of individual cells within the sheet under these three conditions  we show how the dynamics of the individual cells' motion is responsible for the coordinated migration of the sheet and is coordinated with the activation of erk1/2 mapk. in addition  we demonstrate that the propagation of the waves of mapk activation depends on the generation of reactive oxygen species at the wound edge.
1165,effects of growth hormone and insulin-like growth factor 1 deficiency on ageing and longevity.,present knowledge on the effects of growth hormone (gh)/insulin-like growth hormone (igf)1 deficiency on ageing and lifespan are reviewed. evidence is presented that isolated gh deficiency (ighd)  multiple pituitary hormone deficiencies (mphd) including gh  as well as primary ige1 deficiency (gh resistance  laron syndrome) present signs of early ageing such as thin and wrinkled skin  obesity  hyperglycemia and osteoporosis. these changes do not seem to affect the lifespan  as patients reach old age. animal models of genetic mphd (ames and snell mice) and gh receptor knockout mice (primary igf1 deficiency) also have a statistically significant higher longevity compared to normal controls. on the contrary  mice transgenic for gh and acromegalic patients secreting large amounts of gh have premature death. in conclusion longstanding gh/igf1 deficiency affects several parameters of the ageing process without impairing lifespan  and as shown in animal models prolongs longevity. in contrast high gh/igf1 levels accelerate death.
1167,quantifying heterogeneity in a meta-analysis.,the extent of heterogeneity in a meta-analysis partly determines the difficulty in drawing overall conclusions. this extent may be measured by estimating a between-study variance  but interpretation is then specific to a particular treatment effect metric. a test for the existence of heterogeneity exists  but depends on the number of studies in the meta-analysis. we develop measures of the impact of heterogeneity on a meta-analysis  from mathematical criteria  that are independent of the number of studies and the treatment effect metric. we derive and propose three suitable statistics: h is the square root of the chi2 heterogeneity statistic divided by its degrees of freedom; r is the ratio of the standard error of the underlying mean from a random effects meta-analysis to the standard error of a fixed effect meta-analytic estimate  and i2 is a transformation of (h) that describes the proportion of total variation in study estimates that is due to heterogeneity. we discuss interpretation  interval estimates and other properties of these measures and examine them in five example data sets showing different amounts of heterogeneity. we conclude that h and i2  which can usually be calculated for published meta-analyses  are particularly useful summaries of the impact of heterogeneity. one or both should be presented in published meta-analyses in preference to the test for heterogeneity.
1169,gpr124 is essential for blood–brain barrier integrity in central nervous system disease,although blood–brain barrier (bbb) compromise is central to the etiology of diverse central nervous system (cns) disorders  endothelial receptor proteins that control bbb function are poorly defined. the endothelial g-protein-coupled receptor (gpcr) gpr124 has been reported to be required for normal forebrain angiogenesis and bbb function in mouse embryos  but the role of this receptor in adult animals is unknown. here gpr124 conditional knockout (cko) in the endothelia of adult mice did not affect homeostatic bbb integrity  but resulted in bbb disruption and microvascular hemorrhage in mouse models of both ischemic stroke and glioblastoma  accompanied by reduced cerebrovascular canonical wnt–β-catenin signaling. constitutive activation of wnt–β-catenin signaling fully corrected the bbb disruption and hemorrhage defects of gpr124-cko mice  with rescue of the endothelial gene tight junction  pericyte coverage and extracellular-matrix deficits. we thus identify gpr124 as an endothelial gpcr specifically required for endothelial wnt signaling and bbb integrity under pathological conditions in adult mice. this finding implicates gpr124 as a potential therapeutic target for human cns disorders characterized by bbb disruption.
1171,air-2: an aurora/ipl1-related protein kinase associated with chromosomes and midbody microtubules is  required for polar body extrusion and cytokinesis  in caenorhabditis elegans embryos ,an emerging family of kinases related to the drosophila aurora and budding yeast ipl1 proteins has been implicated in chromosome segregation and mitotic spindle formation in a number of organisms. unlike other aurora/ipl1-related kinases  the caenorhabditis elegans orthologue  air-2  is associated with meiotic and mitotic chromosomes. air-2 is initially localized to the chromosomes of the most mature prophase i–arrested oocyte residing next to the spermatheca. this localization is dependent on the presence of sperm in the spermatheca. after fertilization  air-2 remains associated with chromosomes during each meiotic division. however  during both meiotic anaphases  air-2 is present between the separating chromosomes. air-2 also remains associated with both extruded polar bodies. in the embryo  air-2 is found on metaphase chromosomes  moves to midbody microtubules at anaphase  and then persists at the cytokinesis remnant. disruption of air-2 expression by rna- mediated interference produces entire broods of one-cell embryos that have executed multiple cell cycles in the complete absence of cytokinesis. the embryos accumulate large amounts of dna and microtubule asters. polar bodies are not extruded  but remain in the embryo where they continue to replicate. the cytokinesis defect appears to be late in the cell cycle because transient cleavage furrows initiate at the proper location  but regress before the division is complete. additionally  staining with a marker of midbody microtubules revealed that at least some of the components of the midbody are not well localized in the absence of air-2 activity. our results suggest that during each meiotic and mitotic division  air-2 may coordinate the congression of metaphase chromosomes with the subsequent events of polar body extrusion and cytokinesis.
1173,glioblastoma subclasses can be defined by activity among signal transduction pathways and associated genomic alterations,background glioblastoma multiforme (gbm) is an umbrella designation that includes a heterogeneous group of primary brain tumors. several classification strategies of gbm have been reported  some by clinical course and others by resemblance to cell types either in the adult or during development. from a practical and therapeutic standpoint  classifying gbms by signal transduction pathway activation and by mutation in pathway member genes may be particularly valuable for the development of targeted therapies. methodology/principal findings we performed targeted proteomic analysis of 27 surgical glioma samples to identify patterns of coordinate activation among glioma-relevant signal transduction pathways  then compared these results with integrated analysis of genomic and expression data of 243 gbm samples from the cancer genome atlas (tcga). in the pattern of signaling  three subclasses of gbm emerge which appear to be associated with predominance of egfr activation  pdgfr activation  or loss of the ras regulator nf1. the egfr signaling class has prominent notch pathway activation measured by elevated expression of notch ligands  cleaved notch receptor  and downstream target hes1. the pdgf class showed high levels of pdgfb ligand and phosphorylation of pdgfrbeta and nfkb. nf1-loss was associated with lower overall mapk and pi3k activation and relative overexpression of the mesenchymal marker ykl40. these three signaling classes appear to correspond with distinct transcriptomal subclasses of primary gbm samples from tcga for which copy number aberration and mutation of egfr  pdgfra  and nf1 are signature events. conclusions/significance proteomic analysis of gbm samples revealed three patterns of expression and activation of proteins in glioma-relevant signaling pathways. these three classes are comprised of roughly equal numbers showing either egfr activation associated with amplification and mutation of the receptor  pdgf-pathway activation that is primarily ligand-driven  or loss of nf1 expression. the associated signaling activities correlating with these sentinel alterations provide insight into glioma biology and therapeutic strategies.
1175,antibiotic-induced shifts in the mouse gut microbiome and metabolome increase susceptibility to clostridium difficile infection,antibiotics can have significant and long-lasting effects on the gastrointestinal tract microbiota  reducing colonization resistance against pathogens including clostridium difficile. here we show that antibiotic treatment induces substantial changes in the gut microbial community and in the metabolome of mice susceptible to c. difficile infection. levels of secondary bile acids  glucose  free fatty acids and dipeptides decrease  whereas those of primary bile acids and sugar alcohols increase  reflecting the modified metabolic activity of the altered gut microbiome. in vitro and ex vivo analyses demonstrate that c. difficile can exploit specific metabolites that become more abundant in the mouse gut after antibiotics  including the primary bile acid taurocholate for germination  and carbon sources such as mannitol  fructose  sorbitol  raffinose and stachyose for growth. our results indicate that antibiotic-mediated alteration of the gut microbiome converts the global metabolic profile to one that favours c. difficile germination and growth.
1177,insights into g-quadruplex specific recognition by the deah-box helicase rhau: solution structure of a peptide-quadruplex complex.,four-stranded nucleic acid structures called g-quadruplexes have been associated with important cellular processes  which should require g-quadruplex-protein interaction. however  the structural basis for specific g-quadruplex recognition by proteins has not been understood. the deah (asp-glu-ala-his) box rna helicase associated with au-rich element (rhau) (also named dhx36 or g4r1) specifically binds to and resolves parallel-stranded g-quadruplexes. here we identified an 18-amino acid g-quadruplex-binding domain of rhau and determined the structure of this peptide bound to a parallel dna g-quadruplex. our structure explains how rhau specifically recognizes parallel g-quadruplexes. the peptide covers a terminal guanine base tetrad (g-tetrad)  and clamps the g-quadruplex using three-anchor-point electrostatic interactions between three positively charged amino acids and negatively charged phosphate groups. this binding mode is strikingly similar to that of most ligands selected for specific g-quadruplex targeting. binding to an exposed g-tetrad represents a simple and efficient way to specifically target g-quadruplex structures.
1179,endothelin-1 is induced by cytokines in human vascular smooth muscle cells: evidence for intracellular endothelin-converting enzyme.,endothelin-1 (et-1) is the predominant endothelin isopeptide generated by the vascular wall and therefore appears to be the most important peptide involved in regulation of cardiovascular events. many pathologic conditions are associated with elevations of et-1 in the blood vessel wall. because these conditions are often cytokine driven  we examined the effects of a mixture of cytokines on et-1 production in human vascular smooth muscle cells (vsmcs) derived from internal mammary artery and saphenous vein (sv). incubation of ima and sv vsmcs with tumor necrosis factor-alpha (10 ng/ml) and interferon-gamma (1000 u/ml) in combination for up to 48 h markedly elevated the expression of mrna for prepro-et-1 and the release of et-1 into the culture medium. this cytokine-stimulated release of et-1 was inhibited by a series of dual endothelin-converting enzyme (ece)/neutral endopeptidase inhibitors  phosphoramidon  cgs 26303  and cgs 26393  with an accompanying increase in big et-1 release but with no effect on expression of mrna for prepro-et-1. these same compounds were 10 times more potent at inhibiting the conversion of exogenously applied big et-1 to et-1. ece-1b/c mrna is present in sv vsmcs  however no ece-1a is present in these cells. thus vsmcs most probably contain  like endothelial cells  an intracellular ece responsible for the endogenous synthesis of et-1. under the influence of pro-inflammatory mediators the vascular smooth muscle can therefore become an important site of et-1 production  as has already been established for the dilator mediators nitric oxide  prostaglandin i2  and prostaglandin e2.
1181,cytomegalovirus micrornas facilitate persistent virus infection in salivary glands,micro (mi)rnas are small non-coding rnas that regulate the expression of their targets' messenger rnas through both translational inhibition and regulation of target rna stability. recently  a number of viruses  particularly of the herpesvirus family  have been shown to express their own mirnas to control both viral and cellular transcripts. although some targets of viral mirnas are known  their function in a physiologically relevant infection remains to be elucidated. as such  no in vivo phenotype of a viral mirna knock-out mutant has been described so far. here  we report on the first functional phenotype of a mirna knock-out virus in vivo. during subacute infection of a mutant mouse cytomegalovirus lacking two viral mirnas  virus production is selectively reduced in salivary glands  an organ essential for virus persistence and horizontal transmission. this phenotype depends on several parameters including viral load and mouse genetic background  and is abolished by combined but not single depletion of natural killer (nk) and cd4+ t cells. together  our results point towards a mirna-based immunoevasion mechanism important for long-term virus persistence.
1183,the porphyrias: advances in diagnosis and treatment.,the inborn errors of heme biosynthesis  the porphyrias  are 8 genetically distinct metabolic disorders that can be classified as "acute hepatic " "hepatic cutaneous " and "erythropoietic cutaneous" diseases. recent advances in understanding their pathogenesis and molecular genetic heterogeneity have led to improved diagnosis and treatment. these advances include dna-based diagnoses for all the porphyrias  new understanding of the pathogenesis of the acute hepatic porphyrias  identification of the iron overload-induced inhibitor of hepatic uroporphyrin decarboxylase activity that causes the most common porphyria  porphyria cutanea tarda  the identification of an x-linked form of erythropoietic protoporphyria due to gain-of-function mutations in erythroid-specific 5-aminolevulinate synthase (alas2)  and new and experimental treatments for the erythropoietic porphyrias. knowledge of these advances is relevant for hematologists because they administer the hematin infusions to treat the acute attacks in patients with the acute hepatic porphyrias  perform the chronic phlebotomies to reduce the iron overload and clear the dermatologic lesions in porphyria cutanea tarda  and diagnose and treat the erythropoietic porphyrias  including chronic erythrocyte transfusions  bone marrow or hematopoietic stem cell transplants  and experimental pharmacologic chaperone and stem cell gene therapies for congenital erythropoietic protoporphyria. these developments are reviewed to update hematologists on the latest advances in these diverse disorders.
1185,characteristics of service users and provider organisations associated with experience of out of hours general practitioner care in england: population based cross sectional postal questionnaire survey.,objective to investigate the experience of users of out of hours general practitioner services in england  uk. design population based cross sectional postal questionnaire survey. setting general practice patient survey 2012-13. main outcome measures potential associations between sociodemographic factors (including ethnicity and ability to take time away from work during working hours to attend a healthcare consultation) and provider organisation type (not for profit  nhs  or commercial) and service users' experience of out of hours care (timeliness  confidence and trust in the out of hours clinician  and overall experience of the service)  rated on a scale of 0-100. which sociodemographic/provider characteristics were associated with service users' experience  the extent to which any observed differences could be because of clustering of service users of a particular sociodemographic group within poorer scoring providers  and the extent to which observed differences in experience varied across types of provider. results the overall response rate was 35%; 971 232/2 750 000 patients returned surveys. data from 902 170 individual service users were mapped through their registered practice to one of 86 providers of out of hours gp care with known organisation type. commercial providers of out of hours gp care were associated with poorer reports of overall experience of care  with a mean difference of -3.13 (95% confidence interval -4.96 to -1.30) compared with not for profit providers. asian service users reported lower scores for all three experience outcomes than white service users (mean difference for overall experience of care -3.62  -4.36 to -2.89)  as did service users who were unable to take time away from work compared with service users who did not work (mean difference for overall experience of care -4.73  -5.29 to -4.17). conclusions commercial providers of out of hours gp care were associated with poorer experience of care. targeted interventions aimed at improving experience for patients from ethnic minorities and patients who are unable to take time away from work might be warranted.
1187,ubiquitin-dependent protein degradation.,a growing number of cellular regulatory mechanisms are being linked to protein modification by the polypeptide ubiquitin. these include key transitions in the cell cycle  class i antigen processing  signal transduction pathways  and receptor-mediated endocytosis. in most  but not all  of these examples  ubiquitination of a protein leads to its degradation by the 26s proteasome. following attachment of ubiquitin to a substrate and binding of the ubiquitinated protein to the proteasome  the bound substrate must be unfolded (and eventually deubiquitinated) and translocated through a narrow set of channels that leads to the proteasome interior  where the polypeptide is cleaved into short peptides. protein ubiquitination and deubiquitination are both mediated by large enzyme families  and the proteasome itself comprises a family of related but functionally distinct particles. this diversity underlies both the high substrate specificity of the ubiquitin system and the variety of regulatory mechanisms that it serves.
1189,location coding by opponent neural populations in the auditory cortex,although the auditory cortex plays a necessary role in sound localization  physiological investigations in the cortex reveal inhomogeneous sampling of auditory space that is difficult to reconcile with localization behavior under the assumption of local spatial coding. most neurons respond maximally to sounds located far to the left or right side  with few neurons tuned to the frontal midline. paradoxically  psychophysical studies show optimal spatial acuity across the frontal midline. in this paper  we revisit the problem of inhomogeneous spatial sampling in three fields of cat auditory cortex. in each field  we confirm that neural responses tend to be greatest for lateral positions  but show the greatest modulation for near-midline source locations. moreover  identification of source locations based on cortical responses shows sharp discrimination of left from right but relatively inaccurate discrimination of locations within each half of space. motivated by these findings  we explore an opponent-process theory in which sound-source locations are represented by differences in the activity of two broadly tuned channels formed by contra- and ipsilaterally preferring neurons. finally  we demonstrate a simple model  based on spike-count differences across cortical populations  that provides bias-free  level-invariant localization—and thus also a solution to the “binding problem” of associating spatial information with other nonspatial attributes of sounds.
1191,mafb/c-maf deficiency enables self-renewal of differentiated functional macrophages.,in metazoan organisms  terminal differentiation is generally tightly linked to cell cycle exit  whereas the undifferentiated state of pluripotent stem cells is associated with unlimited self-renewal. here  we report that combined deficiency for the transcription factors mafb and c-maf enables extended expansion of mature monocytes and macrophages in culture without loss of differentiated phenotype and function. upon transplantation  the expanded cells are nontumorigenic and contribute to functional macrophage populations in vivo. small hairpin rna inactivation shows that continuous proliferation of mafb/c-maf deficient macrophages requires concomitant up-regulation of two pluripotent stem cell-inducing factors  klf4 and c-myc. our results indicate that mafb/c-mafb deficiency renders self-renewal compatible with terminal differentiation. it thus appears possible to amplify functional differentiated cells without malignant transformation or stem cell intermediates.
1193,kdm5b regulates embryonic stem cell self-renewal and represses cryptic intragenic transcription.,although regulation of histone methylation is believed to contribute to embryonic stem cell (esc) self-renewal  the mechanisms remain obscure. we show here that the histone h3 trimethyl lysine 4 (h3k4me3) demethylase  kdm5b  is a downstream nanog target and critical for esc self-renewal. although kdm5b is believed to function as a promoter-bound repressor  we find that it paradoxically functions as an activator of a gene network associated with self-renewal. chip-seq reveals that kdm5b is predominantly targeted to intragenic regions and that it is recruited to h3k36me3 via an interaction with the chromodomain protein mrg15. depletion of kdm5b or mrg15 increases intragenic h3k4me3  increases cryptic intragenic transcription  and inhibits transcriptional elongation of kdm5b target genes. we propose that kdm5b activates self-renewal-associated gene expression by repressing cryptic initiation and maintaining an h3k4me3 gradient important for productive transcriptional elongation.
1195,discontinuation and non-publication of surgical randomised controlled trials: observational study,objective to determine the rate of early discontinuation and non-publication of randomised controlled trials involving patients undergoing surgery. design cross sectional observational study of registered and published trials. setting randomised controlled trials of interventions in patients undergoing a surgical procedure. data sources the clinicaltrials.gov database was searched for interventional trials registered between january 2008 and december 2009 using the keyword "surgery". recruitment status was extracted from the clinicaltrials.gov database. a systematic search for studies published in peer reviewed journals was performed; if they were not found  results posted on the clinicaltrials.gov results database were sought. email queries were sent to trial investigators of discontinued and unpublished completed trials if no reason for the respective status was disclosed. main outcome measures trial discontinuation before completion and non-publication after completion. logistic regression was used to determine the effect of funding source on publication status  with adjustment for intervention type and trial size. results of 818 registered trials found using the keyword "surgery"  395 met the inclusion criteria. of these  21% (81/395) were discontinued early  most commonly owing to poor recruitment (44%  36/81). the remaining 314 (79%) trials proceeded to completion  with a publication rate of 66% (208/314) at a median time of 4.9 (interquartile range 4.0-6.0) years from study completion to publication search. a further 6% (20/314) of studies presented results on clinicaltrials.gov without a corresponding peer reviewed publication. industry funding did not affect the rate of discontinuation (adjusted odds ratio 0.91  95% confidence interval 0.54 to 1.55) but was associated with a lower odds of publication for completed trials (0.43  0.26 to 0.72). investigators' email addresses for trials with an uncertain fate were identified for 71.4% (10/14) of discontinued trials and 83% (101/122) of unpublished studies. only 43% (6/14) and 20% (25/122) replies were received. email responses for completed trials indicated 11 trials in press  five published studies (four in non-indexed peer reviewed journals)  and nine trials remaining unpublished. conclusions one in five surgical randomised controlled trials are discontinued early  one in three completed trials remain unpublished  and investigators of unpublished studies are frequently not contactable. this represents a waste of research resources and raises ethical concerns regarding hidden clinical data and futile participation by patients with its attendant risks. to promote future efficiency and transparency  changes are proposed to research governance frameworks to overcome these concerns.
1197,prevalence  severity  and unmet need for treatment of mental disorders in the world health organization world mental health surveys.,context little is known about the extent or severity of untreated mental disorders  especially in less-developed countries. objective to estimate prevalence  severity  and treatment of diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders  fourth edition (dsm-iv) mental disorders in 14 countries (6 less developed  8 developed) in the world health organization (who) world mental health (wmh) survey initiative. design  setting  and participants face-to-face household surveys of 60 463 community adults conducted from 2001-2003 in 14 countries in the americas  europe  the middle east  africa  and asia. main outcome measures the dsm-iv disorders  severity  and treatment were assessed with the wmh version of the who composite international diagnostic interview (wmh-cidi)  a fully structured  lay-administered psychiatric diagnostic interview. results the prevalence of having any wmh-cidi/dsm-iv disorder in the prior year varied widely  from 4.3% in shanghai to 26.4% in the united states  with an interquartile range (iqr) of 9.1%-16.9%. between 33.1% (colombia) and 80.9% (nigeria) of 12-month cases were mild (iqr  40.2%-53.3%). serious disorders were associated with substantial role disability. although disorder severity was correlated with probability of treatment in almost all countries  35.5% to 50.3% of serious cases in developed countries and 76.3% to 85.4% in less-developed countries received no treatment in the 12 months before the interview. due to the high prevalence of mild and subthreshold cases  the number of those who received treatment far exceeds the number of untreated serious cases in every country. conclusions reallocation of treatment resources could substantially decrease the problem of unmet need for treatment of mental disorders among serious cases. structural barriers exist to this reallocation. careful consideration needs to be given to the value of treating some mild cases  especially those at risk for progressing to more serious disorders.
1199,a null mutation in inositol polyphosphate 4-phosphatase type i causes selective neuronal loss in weeble mutant mice,weeble mutant mice have severe locomotor instability and significant neuronal loss in the cerebellum and in the hippocampal ca1 field. genetic mapping was used to localize the mutation to the gene encoding inositol polyphosphate 4-phosphatase type i (inpp4a)  where a single nucleotide deletion results in a likely null allele. the substrates of inpp4a are intermediates in a pathway affecting intracellular ca(2+) release but are also involved in cell cycle regulation through binding the akt protooncogene; dysfunction in either may account for the neuronal loss of weeble mice. although other mutations in phosphoinositide enzymes are associated with synaptic defects without neuronal loss  weeble shows that inpp4a is critical for the survival of a subset of neurons during postnatal development in mice.
1201,pqbp1 is a proximal sensor of the cgas-dependent innate response to hiv-1,dendritic cells (dcs) play a critical role in the immune response to viral infection through the facilitation of cell-intrinsic antiviral activity and the activation of adaptive immunity. hiv-1 infection of dcs triggers an irf3-dependent innate immune response  which requires the activity of cyclic gamp synthase (cgas). we report the results of a targeted rnai screen utilizing primary human monocyte-derived dcs (mddcs) to identify immune regulators that directly interface with hiv-1-encoded features to initiate this innate response. polyglutamine binding protein 1 (pqbp1) emerged as a strong candidate through this analysis. we found that pqbp1 directly binds to reverse-transcribed hiv-1 dna and interacts with cgas to initiate an irf3-dependent innate response. mddcs derived from renpenning syndrome patients  who harbor mutations in the pqbp1 locus  possess a severely attenuated innate immune response to hiv-1 challenge  underscoring the role of pqbp1 as a proximal innate sensor of a hiv-1 infection.
1203,mutations among italian mucopolysaccharidosis type i patients,a group of 27 italian patients was screened for α-l-iduronidase mucopolysaccharidosis type i mutations. mutations were found in 18 patients  with 28 alleles identified. the two most common mutations in northern europeans (w402x and q70x) accounted for 11% and 13% of the alleles  respectively. the r89q mutation  uncommon in europeans  was found only in one patient  accounting for 1 of 54 alleles (1.9%). the other mutations  p533r  a327p and g51d  accounted for 11%  5.6% and 9.3% of the total alleles  respectively. interestingly  the high frequency of the p533r mutation seems to be confined to sicily and is higher than the 3% reported in a british/australian study.
1205,barriers and facilitators to implement shared decision making in multidisciplinary sciatica care: a qualitative study,background the dutch multidisciplinary sciatica guideline recommends that the team of professionals involved in sciatica care and the patient together decide on surgical or prolonged conservative treatment (shared decision making [sdm]). despite this recommendation  sdm is not yet integrated in sciatica care. existing literature concerning barriers and facilitators to sdm implementation mainly focuses on one discipline only  whereas multidisciplinary care may involve other barriers and facilitators  or make these more complex for both professionals and patients. therefore  this qualitative study aims to identify barriers and facilitators perceived by patients and professionals for sdm implementation in multidisciplinary sciatica care. methods we conducted 40 semi-structured interviews with professionals involved in sciatica care (general practitioners  physical therapists  neurologists  neurosurgeons  and orthopedic surgeons) and three focus groups among patients (six to eight per group). the interviews and focus groups were audiotaped and transcribed in full. reported barriers and facilitators were classified according to the framework of grol and wensing. the software package atlas.ti 7.0 was used for analysis. results professionals reported 53 barriers and 5 facilitators  and patients 35 barriers and 18 facilitators for sdm in sciatica care. professionals perceived most barriers at the level of the organizational context  and facilitators at the level of the individual professional. patients reported most barriers and facilitators at the level of the individual professional. several barriers and facilitators correspond with barriers and facilitators found in the literature (e.g.  lack of time  motivation) but also new barriers and facilitators were identified. many of these new barriers mentioned by both professionals and patients were related to the multidisciplinary setting  such as lack of visibility  lack of trust in expertise of other disciplines  and lack of communication between disciplines. conclusions this study identified barriers and facilitators for sdm in the multidisciplinary sciatica setting  by both professionals and patients. it is clear that more barriers than facilitators are perceived for implementation of sdm in sciatica care. newly identified barriers and facilitators are related to the multidisciplinary care setting. therefore  an effective implementation strategy of sdm in a multidisciplinary setting such as in sciatica care should focus on these barriers and facilitators.
1207,impact of aortic stiffness on survival in end-stage renal disease.,background damage to large arteries is a major factor in the high cardiovascular morbidity and mortality of patients with end-stage renal disease (esrd). increased arterial stiffness and intima-media thickness  together with increased pulse pressure  are the principal arterial alterations. whether increased aortic pulse-wave velocity (pwv)  a classic marker of increased arterial stiffness  may predict all-cause and/or cardiovascular mortality has never been investigated. methods and results a cohort of 241 patients with esrd undergoing hemodialysis was studied between april 1987 and april 1998. the mean duration of follow-up was 72+/-41 months (mean+/-sd). mean age at entry was 51.5+/-16.3 years. seventy-three deaths occurred  including 48 cardiovascular and 25 noncardiovascular fatal events. at entry  together with standard clinical and biochemical analyses  patients underwent echocardiography and aortic pwv measured by doppler ultrasonography. on the basis of cox analyses  2 factors emerged as predictors of all-cause and cardiovascular mortality: age and aortic pwv. hemoglobin and low diastolic pressure interfered to a smaller extent. after adjustment for all the confounding factors  an or for pwv >12. 0 versus <9.4 m/s was 5.4 (95% ci  2.4 to 11.9) for all-cause mortality and 5.9 (95% ci  2.3 to 15.5) for cardiovascular mortality. for each pwv increase of 1 m/s in our study population  all-cause mortality-adjusted or was 1.39 (95% ci  1.19 to 1.62). conclusions these results provide the first direct evidence that in patients with esrd  increased aortic stiffness determined by measurement of aortic pwv is a strong independent predictor of all-cause and mainly cardiovascular mortality.
1209,sirna specificity searching incorporating mismatch tolerance data.,unlabelled artificially synthesized short interfering rnas (sirnas) are widely used in functional genomics to knock down specific target genes. one ongoing challenge is to guarantee that the sirna does not elicit off-target effects. initial reports suggested that sirnas were highly sequence-specific; however  subsequent data indicates that this is not necessarily the case. it is still uncertain what level of similarity and other rules are required for an off-target effect to be observed  and scoring schemes have not been developed to look beyond simple measures such as the number of mismatches or the number of consecutive matching bases present. we created design rules for predicting the likelihood of a non-specific effect and present a web server that allows the user to check the specificity of a given sirna in a flexible manner using a combination of methods. the server finds potential off-target matches in the corresponding refseq database and ranks them according to a scoring system based on experimental studies of specificity. availability the server is available at http://informatics-eskitis.griffith.edu.au/specificityserver.
1211,effects of pcsk9 inhibition with alirocumab on lipoprotein metabolism in healthy humans,background alirocumab  a monoclonal antibody to proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (pcsk9)  lowers plasma low-density lipoprotein (ldl) cholesterol and apolipoprotein b100 (apob). although studies in mice and cells have identified increased hepatic ldl receptors as the basis for ldl lowering by pcsk9 inhibitors  there have been no human studies characterizing the effects of pcsk9 inhibitors on lipoprotein metabolism. in particular  it is not known whether inhibition of pcsk9 has any effects on very low-density lipoprotein or intermediate-density lipoprotein (idl) metabolism. inhibition of pcsk9 also results in reductions of plasma lipoprotein (a) levels. the regulation of plasma lp(a) levels  including the role of ldl receptors in the clearance of lp(a)  is poorly defined  and no mechanistic studies of the lp(a) lowering by alirocumab in humans have been published to date. methods eighteen (10 f  8 mol/l) participants completed a placebo-controlled  2-period study. they received 2 doses of placebo  2 weeks apart  followed by 5 doses of 150 mg of alirocumab  2 weeks apart. at the end of each period  fractional clearance rates (fcrs) and production rates (prs) of apob and apo(a) were determined. in 10 participants  postprandial triglycerides and apob48 levels were measured. results alirocumab reduced ultracentrifugally isolated ldl-c by 55.1%  ldl-apob by 56.3%  and plasma lp(a) by 18.7%. the fall in ldl-apob was caused by an 80.4% increase in ldl-apob fcr and a 23.9% reduction in ldl-apob pr. the latter was due to a 46.1% increase in idl-apob fcr coupled with a 27.2% decrease in conversion of idl to ldl. the fcr of apo(a) tended to increase (24.6%) without any change in apo(a) pr. alirocumab had no effects on fcrs or prs of very low-density lipoproteins-apob and very low-density lipoproteins triglycerides or on postprandial plasma triglycerides or apob48 concentrations. conclusions alirocumab decreased ldl-c and ldl-apob by increasing idl- and ldl-apob fcrs and decreasing ldl-apob pr. these results are consistent with increases in ldl receptors available to clear idl and ldl from blood during pcsk9 inhibition. the increase in apo(a) fcr during alirocumab treatment suggests that increased ldl receptors may also play a role in the reduction of plasma lp(a). clinical trial registration url: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. unique identifier: nct01959971.
1213,permanent cardiac pacing versus medical treatment for the prevention of recurrent vasovagal syncope: a multicenter  randomized  controlled trial.,background this clinical investigation was performed to compare the effects of permanent dual-chamber cardiac pacing with pharmacological therapy in patients with recurrent vasovagal syncope. methods and results patients from 14 centers were randomized to receive either a ddd pacemaker provided with rate-drop response function or the beta-blocker atenolol at the dosage of 100 mg once a day. inclusion criteria were age >35 years  >/=3 syncopal spells in the preceding 2 years  and positive response to tilt table testing with syncope occurring in association with relative bradycardia. the primary outcome was the first recurrence of syncope after randomization. enrollment was started in december 1997  and the first formal interim analysis was performed on july 30  2000. by that time  93 patients (38 men and 55 women; mean age  58.1+/-14.3 years) had been enrolled and randomized  although follow-up data were available for all patients (46 patients in the pacemaker arm  47 patients in the pharmacological arm). the interim analysis showed a significant effect in favor of permanent cardiac pacing (recurrence of syncope in 2 patients [4.3%] after a median of 390 days) compared with medical treatment (recurrence of syncope in 12 patients [25.5%] after a median of 135 days; or  0.133; 95% ci  0.028 to 0.632; p=0.004). consequently  enrollment and follow-up were terminated. conclusions ddd pacing with rate-drop response function is more effective than beta-blockade for the prevention of syncopal recurrences in highly symptomatic vasovagal fainters with relative bradycardia during tilt-induced syncope.
1215,mechanisms of astrocytogenesis in the mammalian brain.,in the mammalian central nervous system  astrocytes are the most abundant cell type and play crucial roles in brain development and function. astrocytes are known to be produced from multipotent neural stem cells (nscs) at the late gestational stage during brain development  and accumulating evidence indicates that this stage-dependent generation of astrocytes from nscs is achieved by systematic cooperation between environmental cues and cell-intrinsic programs. exemplifying the former is cytokine signaling through the gp130-janus kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 pathway  and exemplifying the latter is epigenetic modification of astrocyte-specific genes. here  we introduce recent advances in our understanding of the mechanisms that coordinate astrocytogenesis from nscs by modulating signaling pathways and epigenetic programs  with a particular focus on the developing mammalian forebrain.
1217,efficacy of hpv dna testing with cytology triage and/or repeat hpv dna testing in primary cervical cancer screening.,background primary cervical screening with both human papillomavirus (hpv) dna testing and cytological examination of cervical cells with a pap test (cytology) has been evaluated in randomized clinical trials. because the vast majority of women with positive cytology are also hpv dna positive  screening strategies that use hpv dna testing as the primary screening test may be more effective. methods we used the database from the intervention arm (n = 6 257 women) of a population-based randomized trial of double screening with cytology and hpv dna testing to evaluate the efficacy of 11 possible cervical screening strategies that are based on hpv dna testing alone  cytology alone  and hpv dna testing combined with cytology among women aged 32-38 years. the main outcome measures were sensitivity for detection of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 3 or worse (cin3+) within 6 months of enrollment or at colposcopy for women with a persistent type-specific hpv infection and the number of screening tests and positive predictive value (ppv) for each screening strategy. all statistical tests were two-sided. results compared with screening by cytology alone  double testing with cytology and for type-specific hpv persistence resulted in a 35% (95% confidence interval [ci] = 15% to 60%) increase in sensitivity to detect cin3+  without a statistically significant reduction in the ppv (relative ppv = 0.76  95% ci = 0.52 to 1.10)  but with more than twice as many screening tests needed. several strategies that incorporated screening for high-risk hpv subtypes were explored  but they resulted in reduced ppv compared with cytology. compared with cytology  primary screening with hpv dna testing followed by cytological triage and repeat hpv dna testing of hpv dna-positive women with normal cytology increased the cin3+ sensitivity by 30% (95% ci = 9% to 54%)  maintained a high ppv (relative ppv = 0.87  95% ci = 0.60 to 1.26)  and resulted in a mere 12% increase in the number of screening tests (from 6 257 to 7 019 tests). conclusions primary hpv dna-based screening with cytology triage and repeat hpv dna testing of cytology-negative women appears to be the most feasible cervical screening strategy.
1219,molecular mechanisms of hepatic ischemia-reperfusion injury and preconditioning.,ischemia-reperfusion injury is  at least in part  responsible for the morbidity associated with liver surgery under total vascular exclusion or after liver transplantation. the pathophysiology of hepatic ischemia-reperfusion includes a number of mechanisms that contribute to various degrees in the overall injury. some of the topics discussed in this review include cellular mechanisms of injury  formation of pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators  expression of adhesion molecules  and the role of oxidant stress during the inflammatory response. furthermore  the roles of nitric oxide in preventing microcirculatory disturbances and as a substrate for peroxynitrite formation are reviewed. in addition  emerging mechanisms of protection by ischemic preconditioning are discussed. on the basis of current knowledge  preconditioning or pharmacological interventions that mimic these effects have the greatest potential to improve clinical outcome in liver surgery involving ischemic stress and reperfusion.
1221,empirical verification of evolutionary theories of aging,we recently selected 3 long-lived mutant strains of saccharomyces cerevisiae by a lasting exposure to exogenous lithocholic acid. each mutant strain can maintain the extended chronological lifespan after numerous passages in medium without lithocholic acid. in this study  we used these long-lived yeast mutants for empirical verification of evolutionary theories of aging. we provide evidence that the dominant polygenic trait extending longevity of each of these mutants 1) does not affect such key features of early-life fitness as the exponential growth rate  efficacy of post-exponential growth and fecundity; and 2) enhances such features of early-life fitness as susceptibility to chronic exogenous stresses  and the resistance to apoptotic and liponecrotic forms of programmed cell death. these findings validate evolutionary theories of programmed aging. we also demonstrate that under laboratory conditions that imitate the process of natural selection within an ecosystem  each of these long-lived mutant strains is forced out of the ecosystem by the parental wild-type strain exhibiting shorter lifespan. we therefore concluded that yeast cells have evolved some mechanisms for limiting their lifespan upon reaching a certain chronological age. these mechanisms drive the evolution of yeast longevity towards maintaining a finite yeast chronological lifespan within ecosystems.
1223,suppression of inflammatory and neuropathic pain by uncoupling crmp-2 from the presynaptic ca2+ channel complex,the use of n-type voltage-gated calcium channel (cav2.2) blockers to treat pain is limited by many physiological side effects. here we report that inflammatory and neuropathic hypersensitivity can be suppressed by inhibiting the binding of collapsin response mediator protein 2 (crmp-2) to cav2.2 and thereby reducing channel function. a peptide of crmp-2 fused to the hiv transactivator of transcription (tat) protein (tat-cbd3) decreased neuropeptide release from sensory neurons and excitatory synaptic transmission in dorsal horn neurons  reduced meningeal blood flow  reduced nocifensive behavior induced by formalin injection or corneal capsaicin application and reversed neuropathic hypersensitivity produced by an antiretroviral drug. tat-cbd3 was mildly anxiolytic without affecting memory retrieval  sensorimotor function or depression. at doses tenfold higher than that required to reduce hypersensitivity in vivo  tat-cbd3 caused a transient episode of tail kinking and body contortion. by preventing crmp-2–mediated enhancement of cav2.2 function  tat-cbd3 alleviated inflammatory and neuropathic hypersensitivity  an approach that may prove useful in managing chronic pain.
1225,leisure time physical activity and mortality: a detailed pooled analysis of the dose-response relationship.,importance the 2008 physical activity guidelines for americans recommended a minimum of 75 vigorous-intensity or 150 moderate-intensity minutes per week (7.5 metabolic-equivalent hours per week) of aerobic activity for substantial health benefit and suggested additional benefits by doing more than double this amount. however  the upper limit of longevity benefit or possible harm with more physical activity is unclear. objective to quantify the dose-response association between leisure time physical activity and mortality and define the upper limit of benefit or harm associated with increased levels of physical activity. design  setting  and participants we pooled data from 6 studies in the national cancer institute cohort consortium (baseline 1992-2003). population-based prospective cohorts in the united states and europe with self-reported physical activity were analyzed in 2014. a total of 661 137 men and women (median age  62 years; range  21-98 years) and 116 686 deaths were included. we used cox proportional hazards regression with cohort stratification to generate multivariable-adjusted hazard ratios (hrs) and 95% cis. median follow-up time was 14.2 years. exposures leisure time moderate- to vigorous-intensity physical activity. main outcomes and measures the upper limit of mortality benefit from high levels of leisure time physical activity. results compared with individuals reporting no leisure time physical activity  we observed a 20% lower mortality risk among those performing less than the recommended minimum of 7.5 metabolic-equivalent hours per week (hr  0.80 [95% ci  0.78-0.82])  a 31% lower risk at 1 to 2 times the recommended minimum (hr  0.69 [95% ci  0.67-0.70])  and a 37% lower risk at 2 to 3 times the minimum (hr  0.63 [95% ci  0.62-0.65]). an upper threshold for mortality benefit occurred at 3 to 5 times the physical activity recommendation (hr  0.61 [95% ci  0.59-0.62]); however  compared with the recommended minimum  the additional benefit was modest (31% vs 39%). there was no evidence of harm at 10 or more times the recommended minimum (hr  0.69 [95% ci  0.59-0.78]). a similar dose-response relationship was observed for mortality due to cardiovascular disease and to cancer. conclusions and relevance meeting the 2008 physical activity guidelines for americans minimum by either moderate- or vigorous-intensity activities was associated with nearly the maximum longevity benefit. we observed a benefit threshold at approximately 3 to 5 times the recommended leisure time physical activity minimum and no excess risk at 10 or more times the minimum. in regard to mortality  health care professionals should encourage inactive adults to perform leisure time physical activity and do not need to discourage adults who already participate in high-activity levels.
1227,protein acetylation affects acetate metabolism  motility and acid stress response in escherichia coli,although protein acetylation is widely observed  it has been associated with few specific regulatory functions making it poorly understood. to interrogate its functionality  we analyzed the acetylome in escherichia coli knockout mutants of cobb  the only known sirtuin-like deacetylase  and patz  the best-known protein acetyltransferase. for four growth conditions  more than 2 000 unique acetylated peptides  belonging to 809 proteins  were identified and differentially quantified. nearly 65% of these proteins are related to metabolism. the global activity of cobb contributes to the deacetylation of a large number of substrates and has a major impact on physiology. apart from the regulation of acetyl-coa synthetase  we found that cobb-controlled acetylation of isocitrate lyase contributes to the fine-tuning of the glyoxylate shunt. acetylation of the transcription factor rcsb prevents dna binding  activating flagella biosynthesis and motility  and increases acid stress susceptibility. surprisingly  deletion of patz increased acetylation in acetate cultures  which suggests that it regulates the levels of acetylating agents. the results presented offer new insights into functional roles of protein acetylation in metabolic fitness and global cell regulation.
1229,cell and molecular mechanisms of insulin-induced angiogenesis,angiogenesis  the development of new blood vessel from pre-existing vessels  is a key process in the formation of the granulation tissue during wound healing. the appropriate development of new blood vessels  along with their subsequent maturation and differentiation  establishes the foundation for functional wound neovasculature. we performed studies in vivo and used a variety of cellular and molecular approaches in vitro to show that insulin stimulates angiogenesis and to elucidate the signalling mechanisms by which this protein stimulates microvessel development. mice skin injected with insulin shows longer vessels with more branches  along with increased numbers of associated alpha-smooth muscle actin-expressing cells  suggesting the appropriate differentiation and maturation of the new vessels. we also found that insulin stimulates human microvascular endothelial cell migration and tube formation  and that these effects occur independently of vegf/vegfr signalling  but are dependent upon the insulin receptor itself. downstream signalling pathways involve pi3k  akt  sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1 (srebp-1) and rac1; inhibition of these pathways results in elimination of endothelial cell migration and tube formation and significantly decreases the development of microvessels. our findings strongly suggest that insulin is a good candidate for the treatment of ischaemic wounds and other conditions in which blood vessel development is impaired.
1231,homologous recombination resolution defect in werner syndrome.,werner syndrome (wrn) is an uncommon autosomal recessive disease whose phenotype includes features of premature aging  genetic instability  and an elevated risk of cancer. we used three different experimental strategies to show that wrn cellular phenotypes of limited cell division potential  dna damage hypersensitivity  and defective homologous recombination (hr) are interrelated. wrn cell survival and the generation of viable mitotic recombinant progeny could be rescued by expressing wild-type wrn protein or by expressing the bacterial resolvase protein rusa. the dependence of wrn cellular phenotypes on rad51-dependent hr pathways was demonstrated by using a dominant-negative rad51 protein to suppress mitotic recombination in wrn and control cells: the suppression of rad51-dependent recombination led to significantly improved survival of wrn cells following dna damage. these results define a physiological role for the wrn recq helicase protein in rad51-dependent hr and identify a mechanistic link between defective recombination resolution and limited cell division potential  dna damage hypersensitivity  and genetic instability in human somatic cells.
1233,mid49 and mid51  new components of the mitochondrial fission machinery.,mitochondria form intricate networks through fission and fusion events. here  we identify mitochondrial dynamics proteins of 49 and 51 kda (mid49 and mid51  respectively) anchored in the mitochondrial outer membrane. mid49/51 form foci and rings around mitochondria similar to the fission mediator dynamin-related protein 1 (drp1). mid49/51 directly recruit drp1 to the mitochondrial surface  whereas their knockdown reduces drp1 association  leading to unopposed fusion. overexpression of mid49/51 seems to sequester drp1 from functioning at mitochondria and cause fused tubules to associate with actin. thus  mid49/51 are new mediators of mitochondrial division affecting drp1 action at mitochondria.
1235,protein restriction during pregnancy affects maternal liver lipid metabolism and fetal brain lipid composition in the rat.,suboptimal developmental environments program offspring to lifelong metabolic problems. the aim of this study was to determine the impact of protein restriction in pregnancy on maternal liver lipid metabolism at 19 days of gestation (dg) and its effect on fetal brain development. control (c) and restricted (r) mothers were fed with isocaloric diets containing 20 and 10% of casein. at 19 dg  maternal blood and livers and fetal livers and brains were collected. serum insulin and leptin levels were determinate in mothers. maternal and fetal liver lipid and fetal brain lipid quantification were performed. maternal liver and fetal brain fatty acids were quantified by gas chromatography. in mothers  liver desaturase and elongase mrnas were measured by rt-pcr. maternal body and liver weights were similar in both groups. however  fat body composition  including liver lipids  was lower in r mothers. a higher fasting insulin at 19 dg in the r group was observed (c = 0.2 +/- 0.04 vs. r = 0.9 +/- 0.16 ng/ml  p < 0.01) and was inversely related to early growth retardation. serum leptin in r mothers was significantly higher than that observed in c rats (c = 5 +/- 0.1 vs. r = 7 +/- 0.7 ng/ml  p < 0.05). in addition  protein restriction significantly reduced gene expression in maternal liver of desaturases and elongases and the concentration of arachidonic (aa) and docosahexanoic (dha) acids. in fetus from r mothers  a low body weight (c = 3 +/- 0.3 vs. r = 2 +/- 0.1 g  p < 0.05)  as well as liver and brain lipids  including the content of dha in the brain  was reduced. this study showed that protein restriction during pregnancy may negatively impact normal fetal brain development by changes in maternal lipid metabolism.
1237,effects of bifidobacterium animalis administered during lactation on allergic and autoimmune responses in rodents.,probiotics are promoted as being beneficial to health and positive effects on the immune system have been reported. beneficial immune effects have been attributed to several mechanisms  including stimulating t helper 1 (th1) immunity. to explore the effects of the probiotic bifidobacterium animalis on th1- and th2-mediated immune responses  two different animal models representing either th1- or th2-mediated immune responses were used: a rat model for experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (eae) (th1) and a mouse model for respiratory allergy induced by ovalbumin (ova) (th2). b. animalis administration started when the mice or rats were 2 weeks old. respiratory allergy or eae were induced when the animals were 6-7 weeks old. in the allergy model  b. animalis modestly reduced the number of infiltrating eosinophils and lymphocytes in the lungs  but no effects on allergen-specific serum immunoglobulin e levels were found. cytokine profiles assessed after culturing spleen cells with the mitogen concanvalin a (cona) showed that b. animalis skewed the th1/th2 balance towards th1 in females. however  allergen-induced cytokine production in females was not affected by b. animalis. in males  b. animalis significantly decreased cona-induced interleukin-13 and a trend towards lower levels of ova-induced th2 cytokines. in the eae model  b. animalis significantly reduced the duration of clinical symptoms by almost 2 days in males and improved the body weight gain during the experimental period compared with the control group. our data show that b. animalis reduced several immune parameters in the allergy as well as in the autoimmunity model.
1239,cost-effectiveness of human papillomavirus vaccination and screening in spain.,background in spain  prophylactic vaccination against human papillomavirus (hpv) types 16 and 18 is being offered free-of-charge to one birth cohort of girls aged 11-14. screening is opportunistic (annual/biannual) contributing to social and geographical disparities. methods a multi-hpv-type microsimulation model was calibrated to epidemiologic data from spain utilising likelihood-based methods to assess the health and economic impact of adding hpv vaccination to cervical cancer screening. strategies included (1) screening alone of women over age 25  varying frequency (every 1-5 years) and test (cytology  hpv dna testing); (2) hpv vaccination of 11-year-old girls combined with screening. outcomes included lifetime cancer risk  life expectancy  lifetime costs  number of clinical procedures and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios. results after the introduction of hpv vaccination  screening will need to continue  and strategies that incorporated hpv testing are more effective and cost-effective than those with cytology alone. for vaccinated girls  5-year organised cytology with hpv testing as triage from ages 30 to 65 costs 24 350€ per year of life saved (yls)  assuming life-long vaccine immunity against hpv-16/18 by 3 doses with 90% coverage. unvaccinated girls would benefit from organised cytology screening with hpv testing as triage; 5-year screening from ages 30 to 65 costs 16 060€/yls and 4-year screening from ages 30 to 85 costs 38 250€/yls. interventions would be cost-effective depending on the cost-effectiveness threshold and the vaccine price. conclusions in spain  inequitable coverage and overuse of cytology make screening programmes inefficient. if high vaccination coverage among pre-adolescent girls is achieved  organised cytology screening with hpv triage starting at ages 30 to at least 65 every 4-5 years represents the best balance between costs and benefits.
1241,rbm3 regulates temperature sensitive mir-142–5p and mir-143 (thermomirs)  which target immune genes and control fever,fever is commonly used to diagnose disease and is consistently associated with increased mortality in critically ill patients. however  the molecular controls of elevated body temperature are poorly understood. we discovered that the expression of rna-binding motif protein 3 (rbm3)  known to respond to cold stress and to modulate microrna (mirna) expression  was reduced in 30 patients with fever  and in thp-1-derived macrophages maintained at a fever-like temperature (40 °c). notably  rbm3 expression is reduced during fever whether or not infection is demonstrable. reduced rbm3 expression resulted in increased expression of rbm3-targeted temperature-sensitive mirnas  we termed thermomirs. thermomirs such as mir-142-5p and mir-143 in turn target endogenous pyrogens including il-6  il6st  tlr2  pge2 and tnf to complete a negative feedback mechanism  which may be crucial to prevent pathological hyperthermia. using normal pbmcs that were exogenously exposed to fever-like temperature (40 °c)  we further demonstrate the trend by which decreased levels of rbm3 were associated with increased levels of mir-142-5p and mir-143 and vice versa over a 24 h time course. collectively  our results indicate the existence of a negative feedback loop that regulates fever via reduced rbm3 levels and increased expression of mir-142-5p and mir-143.
1243,cord factor and peptidoglycan recapitulate the th17-promoting adjuvant activity of mycobacteria through mincle/card9 signaling and the inflammasome.,although adjuvants are critical vaccine components  their modes of action are poorly understood. in this study  we investigated the mechanisms by which the heat-killed mycobacteria in cfa promote th17 cd4(+) t cell responses. we found that il-17 secretion by cd4(+) t cells following cfa immunization requires myd88 and il-1β/il-1r signaling. through measurement of ag-specific responses after adoptive transfer of otii cells  we confirmed that myd88-dependent signaling controls th17 differentiation rather than simply production of il-17. additional experiments showed that cfa-induced th17 differentiation involves il-1β processing by the inflammasome  as mice lacking caspase-1  asc  or nlrp3 exhibit partially defective responses after immunization. biochemical fractionation studies further revealed that peptidoglycan is the major component of heat-killed mycobacteria responsible for inflammasome activation. by assaying il1b transcripts in the injection site skin of cfa-immunized mice  we found that signaling through the adaptor molecule caspase activation and recruitment domain 9 (card9) plays a major role in triggering pro-il-1β expression. moreover  we demonstrated that recognition of the mycobacterial glycolipid trehalose dimycolate (cord factor) by the c-type lectin receptor mincle partially explains this card9 requirement. importantly  purified peptidoglycan and cord factor administered in mineral oil synergized to recapitulate the th17-promoting activity of cfa  and  as expected  this response was diminished in caspase-1- and card9-deficient mice. taken together  these findings suggest a general strategy for the rational design of th17-skewing adjuvants by combining agonists of the card9 pathway with inflammasome activators.
1245,multiple degradation pathways regulate versatile cip/kip cdk inhibitors.,the mammalian cip/kip family of cyclin-dependent kinase (cdk) inhibitors (ckis) comprises three proteins--p21(cip1/waf1)  p27(kip1)  and p57(kip2)--that bind and inhibit cyclin-cdk complexes  which are key regulators of the cell cycle. cip/kip ckis have additional independent functions in regulating transcription  apoptosis and actin cytoskeletal dynamics. these divergent functions are performed in distinct cellular compartments and contribute to the seemingly contradictory observation that the ckis can both suppress and promote cancer. multiple ubiquitin ligases (e3s) direct the proteasome-mediated degradation of p21  p27 and p57. this review analyzes recent data highlighting our current understanding of how distinct e3 pathways regulate subpopulations of the ckis to control their diverse functions.
1247,prostate cancer-associated gene expression alterations determined from needle biopsies.,purpose to accurately identify gene expression alterations that differentiate neoplastic from normal prostate epithelium using an approach that avoids contamination by unwanted cellular components and is not compromised by acute gene expression changes associated with tumor devascularization and resulting ischemia. experimental design approximately 3 000 neoplastic and benign prostate epithelial cells were isolated using laser capture microdissection from snap-frozen prostate biopsy specimens provided by 31 patients who subsequently participated in a clinical trial of preoperative chemotherapy. cdna synthesized from amplified total rna was hybridized to custom-made microarrays composed of 6 200 clones derived from the prostate expression database. expression differences for selected genes were verified using quantitative reverse transcription-pcr. results comparative analyses identified 954 transcript alterations associated with cancer (q < 0.01%)  including 149 differentially expressed genes with no known functional roles. gene expression changes associated with ischemia and surgical removal of the prostate gland were absent. genes up-regulated in prostate cancer were statistically enriched in categories related to cellular metabolism  energy use  signal transduction  and molecular transport. genes down-regulated in prostate cancers were enriched in categories related to immune response  cellular responses to pathogens  and apoptosis. a heterogeneous pattern of androgen receptor expression changes was noted. in exploratory analyses  androgen receptor down-regulation was associated with a lower probability of cancer relapse after neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by radical prostatectomy. conclusions assessments of tumor phenotypes based on gene expression for treatment stratification and drug targeting of oncogenic alterations may best be ascertained using biopsy-based analyses where the effects of ischemia do not complicate interpretation.
1249,pdgf-bb secreted by preosteoclasts induces angiogenesis during coupling with osteogenesis,osteogenesis during bone modeling and remodeling is coupled with angiogenesis. a recent study showed that a specific vessel subtype  strongly positive for cd31 and endomucin (cd31hiemcnhi)  couples angiogenesis and osteogenesis. here  we found that platelet-derived growth factor-bb (pdgf-bb) secreted by preosteoclasts induces cd31hiemcnhi vessel formation during bone modeling and remodeling. mice with depletion of pdgf-bb in the tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase–positive cell lineage show significantly lower trabecular and cortical bone mass  serum and bone marrow pdgf-bb concentrations  and fewer cd31hiemcnhi vessels compared to wild-type mice. in the ovariectomy (ovx)-induced osteoporotic mouse model  serum and bone marrow levels of pdgf-bb and numbers of cd31hiemcnhi vessels are significantly lower compared to sham-operated controls. treatment with exogenous pdgf-bb or inhibition of cathepsin k to increase the number of preosteoclasts  and thus the endogenous levels of pdgf-bb  increases cd31hiemcnhi vessel number and stimulates bone formation in ovx mice. thus  pharmacotherapies that increase pdgf-bb secretion from preosteoclasts offer a new therapeutic target for treating osteoporosis by promoting angiogenesis and thus bone formation.
1251,ercc1 and mus81–eme1 promote sister chromatid separation by processing late replication intermediates at common fragile sites during mitosis,chromosomal instability (cin) is a hallmark of tumour initiation and progression. some genomic regions are particularly unstable under replication stress  notably common fragile sites (cfss) whose rearrangements in tumour cells contribute to cancer development. recent work has shown that the fanconi anaemia (fanc) pathway plays a role in preventing defective chromosome segregation and cin under conditions of replication stress. strikingly  fancd2 is recruited to regions hosting cfss on metaphase chromosomes. to decipher the mechanisms protecting cfss in g2/m  we searched for proteins that co-localize with fancd2 on mitotic chromosomes  and identified xpf–ercc1 and mus81–eme1  two structure-specific endonucleases. we show that depletion of either ercc1 or mus81–eme1 affects accurate processing of replication intermediates or under-replicated dna that persist at cfss until mitosis. depletion of these endonucleases also leads to an increase in the frequency of chromosome bridges during anaphase that  in turn  favours accumulation of dna damage in the following g1 phase.
1253,the developmental potential of ipscs is greatly influenced by reprogramming factor selection.,induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs) are commonly generated by transduction of oct4  sox2  klf4  and myc (oskm) into cells. although ipscs are pluripotent  they frequently exhibit high variation in terms of quality  as measured in mice by chimera contribution and tetraploid complementation. reliably high-quality ipscs will be needed for future therapeutic applications. here  we show that one major determinant of ipsc quality is the combination of reprogramming factors used. based on tetraploid complementation  we found that ectopic expression of sall4  nanog  esrrb  and lin28 (snel) in mouse embryonic fibroblasts (mefs) generated high-quality ipscs more efficiently than other combinations of factors including oskm. although differentially methylated regions  transcript number of master regulators  establishment of specific superenhancers  and global aneuploidy were comparable between high- and low-quality lines  aberrant gene expression  trisomy of chromosome 8  and abnormal h2a.x deposition were distinguishing features that could potentially also be applicable to human.
1255,a coding-independent function of gene and pseudogene mrnas regulates tumour biology,the canonical role of messenger rna (mrna) is to deliver protein-coding information to sites of protein synthesis. however  given that micrornas bind to rnas  we hypothesized that rnas could possess a regulatory role that relies on their ability to compete for microrna binding  independently of their protein-coding function. as a model for the protein-coding-independent role of rnas  we describe the functional relationship between the mrnas produced by the pten tumour suppressor gene and its pseudogene ptenp1 and the critical consequences of this interaction. we find that ptenp1 is biologically active as it can regulate cellular levels of pten and exert a growth-suppressive role. we also show that the ptenp1 locus is selectively lost in human cancer. we extended our analysis to other cancer-related genes that possess pseudogenes  such as oncogenic kras. we also demonstrate that the transcripts of protein-coding genes such as pten are biologically active. these findings attribute a novel biological role to expressed pseudogenes  as they can regulate coding gene expression  and reveal a non-coding function for mrnas.
1257,transtheoretical model-based multiple behavior intervention for weight management: effectiveness on a population basis.,background the increasing prevalence of overweight and obesity underscores the need for evidence-based  easily disseminable interventions for weight management that can be delivered on a population basis. the transtheoretical model (ttm) offers a promising theoretical framework for multiple behavior weight management interventions. methods overweight or obese adults (bmi 25-39.9; n=1277) were randomized to no-treatment control or home-based  stage-matched multiple behavior interventions for up to three behaviors related to weight management at 0  3  6  and 9 months. all participants were re-assessed at 6  12  and 24 months. results significant treatment effects were found for healthy eating (47.5% versus 34.3%)  exercise (44.90% versus 38.10%)  managing emotional distress (49.7% versus 30.30%)  and untreated fruit and vegetable intake (48.5% versus 39.0%) progressing to action/maintenance at 24 months. the groups differed on weight lost at 24 months. co-variation of behavior change occurred and was much more pronounced in the treatment group  where individuals progressing to action/maintenance for a single behavior were 2.5-5 times more likely to make progress on another behavior. the impact of the multiple behavior intervention was more than three times that of single behavior interventions. conclusions this study demonstrates the ability of ttm-based tailored feedback to improve healthy eating  exercise  managing emotional distress  and weight on a population basis. the treatment produced a high level of population impact that future multiple behavior interventions can seek to surpass.
1259,macrophages in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis,in atherosclerosis  the accumulation of apolipoprotein b-lipoproteins in the matrix beneath the endothelial cell layer of blood vessels leads to the recruitment of monocytes  the cells of the immune system that give rise to macrophages and dendritic cells. macrophages derived from these recruited monocytes participate in a maladaptive  nonresolving inflammatory response that expands the subendothelial layer due to the accumulation of cells  lipid  and matrix. some lesions subsequently form a necrotic core  triggering acute thrombotic vascular disease  including myocardial infarction  stroke  and sudden cardiac death. this review discusses the central roles of macrophages in each of these stages of disease pathogenesis.
1261,overweight prevalence among youth in the united states: why so many different numbers?,several recent publications have presented different estimates for the prevalence of overweight among youth in the united states. prevalence estimates range from 11–24%  despite describing the same results from the third national health and nutrition examination survey (nhanes iii). this paper discusses the variety and evolution of different overweight prevalence estimates. issues of definition  measurements  criteria selection and comparison groups are considered and implications for estimates of the prevalence of overweight among youth are explored. reference percentiles for body mass index (bmi) from several publications are compared. the differences in published estimates from nhanes iii are noted and explained.
1263,asymmetric cryo-em reconstruction of phage ms2 reveals genome structure in situ,in single-stranded ribonucleic acid (rna) viruses  virus capsid assembly and genome packaging are intertwined processes. using cryo-electron microscopy and single particle analysis we determined the asymmetric virion structure of bacteriophage ms2  which includes 178 copies of the coat protein  a single copy of the a-protein and the rna genome. this reveals that in situ  the viral rna genome can adopt a defined conformation. the rna forms a branched network of stem-loops that almost all allocate near the capsid inner surface  while predominantly binding to coat protein dimers that are located in one-half of the capsid. this suggests that genomic rna is highly involved in genome packaging and virion assembly.
1265,microrna-containing t-regulatory-cell-derived exosomes suppress pathogenic t helper 1 cells,foxp3(+) t regulatory (treg) cells prevent inflammatory disease but the mechanistic basis of suppression is not understood completely. gene silencing by rna interference can act in a cell-autonomous and non-cell-autonomous manner  providing mechanisms of intercellular regulation. here  we demonstrate that non-cell-autonomous gene silencing  mediated by mirna-containing exosomes  is a mechanism employed by treg cells to suppress t-cell-mediated disease. treg cells transferred micrornas (mirna) to various immune cells  including t helper 1 (th1) cells  suppressing th1 cell proliferation and cytokine secretion. use of dicer-deficient or rab27a and rab27b double-deficient treg cells to disrupt mirna biogenesis or the exosomal pathway  respectively  established a requirement for mirnas and exosomes for treg-cell-mediated suppression. transcriptional analysis and mirna inhibitor studies showed that exosome-mediated transfer of let-7d from treg cell to th1 cells contributed to suppression and prevention of systemic disease. these studies reveal a mechanism of treg-cell-mediated suppression mediated by mirna-containing exosomes.
1267,up-regulation of endothelial nitric-oxide synthase by endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor involves mitogen-activated protein kinase and protein kinase c signaling pathways.,cytochrome p450 (p450)-dependent metabolites of arachidonic acid  the epoxyeicosatrienoic acids (eets)  are proposed to be endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factors (edhf) that affect vascular tone; however  the effects of edhf on endothelial-derived nitric oxide biosynthesis remain unknown. we examined the regulation of endothelial nitric-oxide synthase (enos) by edhf and investigated the relevant signaling pathways involved. the p450 epoxygenases cyp102 f87v mutant  cyp2c11-cypor  and cyp2j2 were transfected into cultured bovine aortic endothelial cells  and the effects of endogenously formed or exogenously applied eets on enos expression and activity were assessed. transfection with the p450 epoxygenases led to increased enos protein expression  an effect that was attenuated by cotreatment with the p450 inhibitor 17-odya. northern analysis demonstrated that p450 transfection led to increased enos mrna levels consistent with an effect at the pretranslational level. p450 epoxygenase transfection resulted in increased enos activity as measured by the conversion of l-arginine to l-citrulline. addition of synthetic eets (50-200 nm) to the culture media also increased enos expression and activity. treatment with mitogen-activated protein kinase (mapk)  mapk kinase  and protein kinase c inhibitors apigenin  2'-amino-3'-methoxyflavone (pd98059)  and 1-(5-isoquinolinesulfonyl)-2-methylpiperazine (h-7)  respectively  significantly inhibited the effects of p450 transfection on enos expression. overexpression of p450 epoxygenases or addition of synthetic eets increased thr495 phosphorylation of enos  an effect that was inhibited by both apigenin and pd98059. overexpression of p450 epoxygenases in rats resulted in increased aortic enos expression  providing direct evidence that edhf can influence vascular enos levels in vivo. based on this data  we conclude that edhf up-regulates enos via activation of mapk and protein kinase c signaling pathways.
1269,nef is physically recruited into the immunological synapse and potentiates t cell activation early after tcr engagement.,the hiv-1 protein nef enhances viral pathogenicity and accelerates disease progression in vivo. nef potentiates t cell activation by an unknown mechanism  probably by optimizing the intracellular environment for hiv replication. using a new t cell reporter system  we have found that nef more than doubles the number of cells expressing the transcription factors nf-kappab and nfat after tcr stimulation. this nef-induced priming of tcr signaling pathways occurred independently of calcium signaling and involved a very proximal step before protein kinase c activation. engagement of the tcr by mhc-bound ag triggers the formation of the immunological synapse by recruiting detergent-resistant membrane microdomains  termed lipid rafts. approximately 5-10% of the total cellular pool of nef is localized within lipid rafts. using confocal and real-time microscopy  we found that nef in lipid rafts was recruited into the immunological synapse within minutes after ab engagement of the tcr/cd3 and cd28 receptors. this recruitment was dependent on the n-terminal domain of nef encompassing its myristoylation. nef did not increase the number of cell surface lipid rafts or immunological synapses. recently  studies have shown a specific interaction of nef with an active subpopulation of p21-activated kinase-2 found only in the lipid rafts. thus  the corecruitment of nef and key cellular partners (e.g.  activated p21-activated kinase-2) into the immunological synapse may underlie the increased frequency of cells expressing transcriptionally active forms of nf-kappab and nfat and the resultant changes in t cell activation.
1271,bezafibrate in men with lower extremity arterial disease: randomised controlled trial.,objective to assess the effect of bezafibrate on the risk of coronary heart disease and stroke in men with lower extremity arterial disease. design double blind placebo controlled randomised trial. setting 85 general practices and nine hospital vascular clinics. participants 1568 men  mean age 68.2 years (range 35 to 92) at recruitment. interventions bezafibrate 400 mg daily (783 men) or placebo (785 men). main outcome measures combination of coronary heart disease and of stroke. all coronary events  fatal and non-fatal coronary events separately  and strokes alone (secondary end points). results bezafibrate did not reduce the incidence of coronary heart disease and stroke. there were 150 and 160 events in the active and placebo groups respectively (relative risk 0.96  95% confidence interval 0.76 to 1.21). there were 90 and 111 major coronary events in the active and placebo groups respectively (0.81  0.60 to 1.08)  of which 64 and 65 were fatal (0.95  0.66 to 1.37) and 26 and 46 non-fatal (0.60  0.36 to 0.99). beneficial effects on non-fatal events were greatest in men aged <65 years at entry  in whom benefit was also seen for all coronary events (0.38  0.20 to 0.72). there were no significant effects in older men. there were 60 strokes in those on active treatment and 49 in those on placebo (1.34  0.80 to 2.01). there were 204 and 195 deaths from all causes in the two groups respectively (1.03  0.83 to 1.26). bezafibrate reduced the severity of intermittent claudication for up to three years. conclusions bezafibrate has no effect on the incidence of coronary heart disease and of stroke combined but may reduce the incidence of non-fatal coronary events  particularly in those aged <65 years at entry  in whom all coronary events may also be reduced.
1273,association analysis between anterior-pharynx defective-1 genes polymorphisms and alzheimer's disease.,recent biological studies indicate the importance of anterior-pharynx defective-1 (aph-1) proteins in alzheimer's disease (ad) pathogenesis. we scanned aph-1 genes for the presence of sequence variations by denaturing high performance liquid chromatography and analyzed their distribution in an italian sample of 113 ad patients and 132 controls. we found six different polymorphisms: three of them  all in aph-1b  predict an aminoacid substitution (t27i  v199l and f217l); the others are either silent or in non-coding regions. none of them is significantly associated with the disease; data stratification by the apolipoprotein e epsilon4 carrier status show a trend for coexistence of the transversion c+651t>g (f217l) with the epsilon4 allele. our data suggest that polymorphisms in aph-1a/b coding regions are not linked with higher risk for sporadic ad in our italian population sample.
1275,auditory cortex tracks both auditory and visual stimulus dynamics using low-frequency neuronal phase modulation,integrating information across sensory domains to construct a unified representation of multi-sensory signals is a fundamental characteristic of perception in ecological contexts. one provocative hypothesis deriving from neurophysiology suggests that there exists early and direct cross-modal phase modulation. we provide evidence  based on magnetoencephalography (meg) recordings from participants viewing audiovisual movies  that low-frequency neuronal information lies at the basis of the synergistic coordination of information across auditory and visual streams. in particular  the phase of the 2-7 hz delta and theta band responses carries robust (in single trials) and usable information (for parsing the temporal structure) about stimulus dynamics in both sensory modalities concurrently. these experiments are the first to show in humans that a particular cortical mechanism  delta-theta phase modulation across early sensory areas  plays an important "active" role in continuously tracking naturalistic audio-visual streams  carrying dynamic multi-sensory information  and reflecting cross-sensory interaction in real time.
1277,increased sensitivity of antigen-experienced t cells through the enrichment of oligomeric t cell receptor complexes.,although memory t cells respond more vigorously to stimulation and they are more sensitive to low doses of antigen than naive t cells  the molecular basis of this increased sensitivity remains unclear. we have previously shown that the t cell receptor (tcr) exists as different-sized oligomers on the surface of resting t cells and that large oligomers are preferentially activated in response to low antigen doses. through biochemistry and electron microscopy  we now showed that previously stimulated and memory t cells have more and larger tcr oligomers at the cell surface than their naive counterparts. reconstitution of cells and mice with a point mutant of the cd3ζ subunit  which impairs tcr oligomer formation  demonstrated that the increased size of tcr oligomers was directly responsible for the increased sensitivity of antigen-experienced t cells. thus  we propose that an "avidity maturation" mechanism underlies t cell antigenic memory.
1279,dynamic interactions of cortactin and membrane type 1 matrix metalloproteinase at invadopodia: defining the stages of invadopodia formation and function.,metastatic tumor cells that actively migrate and invade surrounding tissues rely on invadopodia to degrade extracellular matrix (ecm) barriers. invadopodia are membrane protrusions that localize enzymes required for ecm degradation. little is known about the formation  function  and regulation of invadopodia. here  we show that invadopodia have two distinct aspects: (a) structural for organizing the cellular actin cytoskeleton to form membrane protrusions and (b) functional for using proteolytic enzyme(s) for ecm degradation. small interfering rna (sirna) inhibition established that organization of invadopodia structure requires cortactin  whereas protease inhibitor studies identified membrane type 1 matrix metalloproteinase (mt1-mmp) as the key invadopodial enzyme responsible for gelatin matrix degradation in the breast carcinoma cell line mda-mb-231. the inhibition of invadopodial structure assembly by cortactin depletion resulted in a block of matrix degradation due to failure of invadopodia formation. either protease inhibition or mt1-mmp sirna depletion moderately decreased the formation of invadopodial structures that were identified as actin-cortactin accumulations at the ventral cell membrane adherent to matrix. the invadopodia that were able to form upon mt1-mmp inhibition or depletion retained actin-cortactin accumulations but were unable to degrade matrix. examination of cells at different time points as well as live-cell imaging revealed four distinct invadopodial stages: membrane cortactin aggregation at membranes adherent to matrix  mt1-mmp accumulation at the region of cortactin accumulation  matrix degradation at the invadopodia region  and subsequent cortactin dissociation from the area of continued mt1-mmp accumulation associated with foci of degraded matrix. based on these results  we propose a stepwise model of invadopodia formation and function.
1281,discrimination of speech stimuli based on neuronal response phase patterns depends on acoustics but not comprehension.,speech stimuli give rise to neural activity in the listener that can be observed as waveforms using magnetoencephalography. although waveforms vary greatly from trial to trial due to activity unrelated to the stimulus  it has been demonstrated that spoken sentences can be discriminated based on theta-band (3-7 hz) phase patterns in single-trial response waveforms. furthermore  manipulations of the speech signal envelope and fine structure that reduced intelligibility were found to produce correlated reductions in discrimination performance  suggesting a relationship between theta-band phase patterns and speech comprehension. this study investigates the nature of this relationship  hypothesizing that theta-band phase patterns primarily reflect cortical processing of low-frequency (<40 hz) modulations present in the acoustic signal and required for intelligibility  rather than processing exclusively related to comprehension (e.g.  lexical  syntactic  semantic). using stimuli that are quite similar to normal spoken sentences in terms of low-frequency modulation characteristics but are unintelligible (i.e.  their time-inverted counterparts)  we find that discrimination performance based on theta-band phase patterns is equal for both types of stimuli. consistent with earlier findings  we also observe that whereas theta-band phase patterns differ across stimuli  power patterns do not. we use a simulation model of the single-trial response to spoken sentence stimuli to demonstrate that phase-locked responses to low-frequency modulations of the acoustic signal can account not only for the phase but also for the power results. the simulation offers insight into the interpretation of the empirical results with respect to phase-resetting and power-enhancement models of the evoked response.
1283,acetic acid activates the amp-activated protein kinase signaling pathway to regulate lipid metabolism in bovine hepatocytes,the effect of acetic acid on hepatic lipid metabolism in ruminants differs significantly from that in monogastric animals. therefore  the aim of this study was to investigate the regulation mechanism of acetic acid on the hepatic lipid metabolism in dairy cows. the amp-activated protein kinase (ampk) signaling pathway plays a key role in regulating hepatic lipid metabolism. in vitro  bovine hepatocytes were cultured and treated with different concentrations of sodium acetate (neutralized acetic acid) and bml-275 (an ampkα inhibitor). acetic acid consumed a large amount of atp  resulting in an increase in ampkα phosphorylation. the increase in ampkα phosphorylation increased the expression and transcriptional activity of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor α  which upregulated the expression of lipid oxidation genes  thereby increasing lipid oxidation in bovine hepatocytes. furthermore  elevated ampkα phosphorylation reduced the expression and transcriptional activity of the sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1c and the carbohydrate responsive element-binding protein  which reduced the expression of lipogenic genes  thereby decreasing lipid biosynthesis in bovine hepatocytes. in addition  activated ampkα inhibited the activity of acetyl-coa carboxylase. consequently  the triglyceride content in the acetate-treated hepatocytes was significantly decreased. these results indicate that acetic acid activates the ampkα signaling pathway to increase lipid oxidation and decrease lipid synthesis in bovine hepatocytes  thereby reducing liver fat accumulation in dairy cows.
1285,genetic abnormalities in chronic lymphocytic leukemia: where we are and where we go,chromosomal abnormalities in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (cll) are detected in up to 80% of patients. among them  deletions of 11q  13q  17p  and trisomy 12 have a known prognostic value and play an important role in cll pathogenesis and evolution  determining patients outcome and therapeutic strategies. standard methods used to identify these genomic aberrations include both conventional g-banding cytogenetics (cgc) and fluorescence in situ hybridization (fish). although fish analyses have been implemented as the gold standard  cgc allows the identification of chromosomal translocations and complex karyotypes  the latest associated with poor outcome. genomic arrays have a higher resolution that allows the detection of cryptic abnormalities  although these have not been fully implemented in routine laboratories. in the last years  next generation sequencing (ngs) methods have identified a wide range of gene mutations (e.g.  tp53  notch1  sf3b1  and birc3) which have improved our knowledge about cll development  allowing us to refine both the prognostic subgroups and better therapeutic strategies. clonal evolution has also recently arisen as a key point in cll  integrating cytogenetic alterations and mutations in a dynamic model that improve our understanding about its clinical course and relapse.
1287,stress-induced apoptosis associated with null mutation of adar1 rna editing deaminase gene.,one type of rna editing involves the conversion of adenosine residues into inosine in double-stranded rna through the action of adenosine deaminases acting on rna (adar). a-to-i rna editing of the coding sequence could result in synthesis of proteins not directly encoded in the genome. adar edits also non-coding sequences of target rnas  such as introns and 3'-untranslated regions  which may affect splicing  translation  and mrna stability. three mammalian adar gene family members (adar1-3) have been identified. here we investigated phenotypes of mice homozygous for adar1 null mutation. although live adar1-/- embryos with normal gross appearance could be recovered up to e11.5  widespread apoptosis was detected in many tissues. fibroblasts derived from adar1-/- embryos were also prone to apoptosis induced by serum deprivation. our results demonstrate an essential requirement for adar1 in embryogenesis and suggest that it functions to promote survival of numerous tissues by editing one or more double-stranded rnas required for protection against stress-induced apoptosis.
1289,light activation of channelrhodopsin-2 in excitable cells of caenorhabditis elegans triggers rapid behavioral responses,for studying the function of specific neurons in their native circuitry  it is desired to precisely control their activity. this often requires dissection to allow accurate electrical stimulation or neurotransmitter application   and it is thus inherently difficult in live animals  especially in small model organisms. here  we employed channelrhodopsin-2 (chr2)  a directly light-gated cation channel from the green alga chlamydomonas reinhardtii  in excitable cells of the nematode caenorhabditis elegans  to trigger specific behaviors  simply by illumination. channelrhodopsins are 7-transmembrane-helix proteins that resemble the light-driven proton pump bacteriorhodopsin   and they also utilize the chromophore all-trans retinal  but to open an intrinsic cation pore. in muscle cells  light-activated chr2 evoked strong  simultaneous contractions  which were reduced in the background of mutated l-type  voltage-gated ca2+-channels (vgccs) and ryanodine receptors (ryrs). electrophysiological analysis demonstrated rapid inward currents that persisted as long as the illumination. when chr2 was expressed in mechanosensory neurons  light evoked withdrawal behaviors that are normally elicited by mechanical stimulation. furthermore  chr2 enabled activity of these neurons in mutants lacking the mec-4/mec-10 mechanosensory ion channel . thus  specific neurons or muscles expressing chr2 can be quickly and reversibly activated by light in live and behaving  as well as dissected  animals.
1291,the threshold for polyglutamine-expansion protein aggregation and cellular toxicity is dynamic and influenced by aging in caenorhabditis elegans.,studies of the mutant gene in huntington's disease  and for eight related neurodegenerative disorders  have identified polyglutamine (polyq) expansions as a basis for cellular toxicity. this finding has led to a disease hypothesis that protein aggregation and cellular dysfunction can occur at a threshold of approximately 40 glutamine residues. here  we test this hypothesis by expression of fluorescently tagged polyq proteins (q29  q33  q35  q40  and q44) in the body wall muscle cells of caenorhabditis elegans and show that young adults exhibit a sharp boundary at 35-40 glutamines associated with the appearance of protein aggregates and loss of motility. surprisingly  genetically identical animals expressing near-threshold polyq repeats exhibited a high degree of variation in the appearance of protein aggregates and cellular toxicity that was dependent on repeat length and exacerbated during aging. the role of genetically determined aging pathways in the progression of age-dependent polyq-mediated aggregation and cellular toxicity was tested by expressing q82 in the background of age-1 mutant animals that exhibit an extended lifespan. we observed a dramatic delay of polyq toxicity and appearance of protein aggregates. these data provide experimental support for the threshold hypothesis of polyq-mediated toxicity in an experimental organism and emphasize the importance of the threshold as a point at which genetic modifiers and aging influence biochemical environment and protein homeostasis in the cell.
1293,igblast: an immunoglobulin variable domain sequence analysis tool,the variable domain of an immunoglobulin (ig) sequence is encoded by multiple genes  including the variable (v) gene  the diversity (d) gene and the joining (j) gene. analysis of ig sequences typically requires identification of each gene  as well as a comparison of sequence variations in the context of defined regions. general purpose tools  such as the blast program  have only limited use for such tasks  as the rearranged nature of an ig sequence and the variable length of each gene requires multiple rounds of blast searches for a single ig sequence. additionally  manual assembly of different genes is difficult and error-prone. to address these issues and to facilitate other common tasks in analysing ig sequences  we have developed the sequence analysis tool igblast (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/igblast/). with this tool  users can view the matches to the germline v  d and j genes  details at rearrangement junctions  the delineation of ig v domain framework regions and complementarity determining regions. igblast has the capability to analyse nucleotide and protein sequences and can process sequences in batches. furthermore  igblast allows searches against the germline gene databases and other sequence databases simultaneously to minimize the chance of missing possibly the best matching germline v gene.
1295,wnt signaling establishes anteroposterior neuronal polarity and requires retromer in c. elegans.,secreted wnt proteins influence neural connectivity by regulating axon guidance  dendritic morphogenesis and synapse formation. we report a new role for wnt and frizzled proteins in establishing the anteroposterior polarity of the mechanosensory neurons alm and plm in c. elegans. disruption of wnt signaling leads to a complete inversion of alm and plm polarity: the anterior process adopts the length  branching pattern and synaptic properties of the wild-type posterior process  and vice versa. different but overlapping sets of wnt proteins regulate neuronal polarity in different body regions. wnts act directly on plm via the frizzled lin-17. in addition  we show that they are needed for axon branching and anteriorly directed axon growth. we also find that the retromer  a conserved protein complex that mediates transcytosis and endosome-to-golgi protein trafficking  plays a key role in wnt signaling. deletion mutations of retromer subunits cause alm and plm polarity  and other wnt-related defects. we show that retromer protein vps-35 is required in wnt-expressing cells and propose that retromer activity is needed to generate a fully active wnt signal.
1297,integration of antiretroviral therapy with tuberculosis treatment.,background we previously reported that integrating antiretroviral therapy (art) with tuberculosis treatment reduces mortality. however  the timing for the initiation of art during tuberculosis treatment remains unresolved. methods we conducted a three-group  open-label  randomized  controlled trial in south africa involving 642 ambulatory patients  all with tuberculosis (confirmed by a positive sputum smear for acid-fast bacilli)  human immunodeficiency virus infection  and a cd4+ t-cell count of less than 500 per cubic millimeter. findings in the earlier-art group (art initiated within 4 weeks after the start of tuberculosis treatment  214 patients) and later-art group (art initiated during the first 4 weeks of the continuation phase of tuberculosis treatment  215 patients) are presented here. results at baseline  the median cd4+ t-cell count was 150 per cubic millimeter  and the median viral load was 161 000 copies per milliliter  with no significant differences between the two groups. the incidence rate of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (aids) or death was 6.9 cases per 100 person-years in the earlier-art group (18 cases) as compared with 7.8 per 100 person-years in the later-art group (19 cases) (incidence-rate ratio  0.89; 95% confidence interval [ci]  0.44 to 1.79; p=0.73). however  among patients with cd4+ t-cell counts of less than 50 per cubic millimeter  the incidence rates of aids or death were 8.5 and 26.3 cases per 100 person-years  respectively (incidence-rate ratio  0.32; 95% ci  0.07 to 1.13; p=0.06). the incidence rates of the immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (iris) were 20.1 and 7.7 cases per 100 person-years  respectively (incidence-rate ratio  2.62; 95% ci  1.48 to 4.82; p<0.001). adverse events requiring a switching of antiretroviral drugs occurred in 10 patients in the earlier-art group and 1 patient in the later-art group (p=0.006). conclusions early initiation of art in patients with cd4+ t-cell counts of less than 50 per cubic millimeter increased aids-free survival. deferral of the initiation of art to the first 4 weeks of the continuation phase of tuberculosis therapy in those with higher cd4+ t-cell counts reduced the risks of iris and other adverse events related to art without increasing the risk of aids or death. (funded by the u.s. president's emergency plan for aids relief and others; sapit clinicaltrials.gov number  nct00398996.).
1299,key role for il-21 in experimental autoimmune uveitis.,il-21 is a pleiotropic type 1 cytokine that shares the common cytokine receptor γ-chain  γ(c)  with il-2  il-4  il-7  il-9  and il-15. il-21 is most homologous to il-2. these cytokines are encoded by adjacent genes  but they are functionally distinct. whereas il-2 promotes development of regulatory t cells and confers protection from autoimmune disease  il-21 promotes differentiation of th17 cells and is implicated in several autoimmune diseases  including type 1 diabetes and systemic lupus erythematosus. however  the roles of il-21 and il-2 in cns autoimmune diseases such as multiple sclerosis and uveitis have been controversial. here  we generated il21-mcherry/il2-emgfp dual-reporter transgenic mice and showed that development of experimental autoimmune uveitis (eau) correlated with the presence of t cells coexpressing il-21 and il-2 into the retina. furthermore  il21r(-/-) mice were more resistant to eau development than wild-type mice  and adoptive transfer of il21r(-/-) t cells induced much less severe eau  underscoring the need for il-21 in the development of this disease and suggesting that blocking il-21/γ(c)-signaling pathways may provide a means for controlling cns auto-inflammatory diseases.
1301,hepatitis b virus replication is regulated by the acetylation status of hepatitis b virus cccdna-bound h3 and h4 histones.,background & aims hbv covalently closed circular dna (cccdna)  the replicative intermediate responsible for persistent hbv infection of hepatocytes  is the template for transcription of all viral mrnas. nuclear cccdna accumulates as a stable episome organized into minichromosomes by histone and nonhistone proteins. in this study we investigated  by a newly developed sensitive and specific assay  the relationship between viral replication and hbv chromatin assembly  transcription  and interaction with viral and cellular regulatory proteins. methods to achieve this aim we coupled a quantitative chromatin immunoprecipitation (chip) technique to an established method that allows the amplification of virion-encapsidated hbv genomes after transfection of linear hbv dna into human hepatoma huh7 cells. the cccdna-chip technique was also applied to study hbv minichromosome transcriptional regulation in liver tissue from hbv-infected patients. results the use of anti-acetyl-h4/-h3 specific antibodies to immunoprecipitate transcriptionally active chromatin revealed that hbv replication is regulated by the acetylation status of the cccdna-bound h3/h4 histones. class i histone deacetylases inhibitors induced an evident increase of both cccdna-bound acetylated h4 and hbv replication. finally  histones hypoacetylation and histone deacetylase 1 recruitment onto the cccdna in liver tissue correlated with low hbv viremia in hepatitis b patients. conclusions we developed a chip-based assay to analyze  in vitro and ex vivo  the transcriptional regulation of hbv cccdna minichromosome. our results provide new insights on the regulation of hbv replication and identify the enzymatic activities that modulate the acetylation of cccdna-bound histones as new therapeutic targets for anti-hbv drugs.
1303,tit-for-tat: type vi secretion system counterattack during bacterial cell-cell interactions,the bacterial type vi secretion system (t6ss) is a dynamic organelle that bacteria use to target prey cells for inhibition via translocation of effector proteins. time-lapse fluorescence microscopy has documented striking dynamics of opposed t6ss organelles in adjacent sister cells of pseudomonas aeruginosa. such cell-cell interactions have been termed "t6ss dueling" and likely reflect a biological process that is driven by t6ss antibacterial attack. here  we show that t6ss dueling behavior strongly influences the ability of p. aeruginosa to prey upon heterologous bacterial species. we show that  in the case of p. aeruginosa  t6ss-dependent killing of either vibrio cholerae or acinetobacter baylyi is greatly stimulated by t6ss activity occurring in those prey species. our data suggest that  in p. aeruginosa  t6ss organelle assembly and lethal counterattack are regulated by a signal that corresponds to the point of attack of the t6ss apparatus elaborated by a second aggressive t6ss(+) bacterial cell. paperflick:
1305,visualization of recombination intermediates produced by rad52-mediated single-strand annealing.,double-strand breaks (dsbs) occur frequently during dna replication. they are also caused by ionizing radiation  chemical damage or as part of the series of programmed events that occur during meiosis. in yeast  dsb repair requires rad52  a protein that plays a critical role in homologous recombination. here we describe the actions of human rad52 protein in a model system for single-strand annealing (ssa) using tailed (i.e. exonuclease resected) duplex dna molecules. purified human rad52 protein binds resected dsbs and promotes associations between complementary dna termini. heteroduplex intermediates of these recombination reactions have been visualized by electron microscopy  revealing the specific binding of multiple rings of rad52 to the resected termini and the formation of large protein complexes at heteroduplex joints formed by rad52-mediated annealing.
1307,neuronal replacement from endogenous precursors in the adult brain after stroke,in the adult brain  new neurons are continuously generated in the subventricular zone and dentate gyrus  but it is unknown whether these neurons can replace those lost following damage or disease. here we show that stroke  caused by transient middle cerebral artery occlusion in adult rats  leads to a marked increase of cell proliferation in the subventricular zone. stroke-generated new neurons  as well as neuroblasts probably already formed before the insult  migrate into the severely damaged area of the striatum  where they express markers of developing and mature  striatal medium-sized spiny neurons. thus  stroke induces differentiation of new neurons into the phenotype of most of the neurons destroyed by the ischemic lesion. here we show that the adult brain has the capacity for self-repair after insults causing extensive neuronal death. if the new neurons are functional and their formation can be stimulated  a novel therapeutic strategy might be developed for stroke in humans.
1309,evolution of an hiv glycan–dependent broadly neutralizing antibody epitope through immune escape,neutralizing antibodies are likely to play a crucial part in a preventative hiv-1 vaccine. although efforts to elicit broadly cross-neutralizing (bcn) antibodies by vaccination have been unsuccessful  a minority of individuals naturally develop these antibodies after many years of infection. how such antibodies arise  and the role of viral evolution in shaping these responses  is unknown. here we show  in two hiv-1–infected individuals who developed bcn antibodies targeting the glycan at asn332 on the gp120 envelope  that this glycan was absent on the initial infecting virus. however  this bcn epitope evolved within 6 months  through immune escape from earlier strain-specific antibodies that resulted in a shift of a glycan to position 332. both viruses that lacked the glycan at amino acid 332 were resistant to the asn332-dependent bcn monoclonal antibody pgt128 (ref. 8)  whereas escaped variants that acquired this glycan were sensitive. analysis of large sequence and neutralization data sets showed the 332 glycan to be significantly under-represented in transmitted subtype c viruses compared to chronic viruses  with the absence of this glycan corresponding with resistance to pgt128. these findings highlight the dynamic interplay between early antibodies and viral escape in driving the evolution of conserved bcn antibody epitopes.
1311,the effect of submaximal exercise preceded by single whole-body cryotherapy on the markers of oxidative stress and inflammation in blood of volleyball players,the aim of the study was to determine the effect of single whole-body cryotherapy (wbc) session applied prior to submaximal exercise on the activity of antioxidant enzymes  the concentration of lipid peroxidation products  total oxidative status  and the level of cytokines in blood of volleyball players. the study group consisted of 18 male professional volleyball players  who were subjected to extremely cold air (-130°c) prior to exercise performed on cycloergometer. blood samples were taken five times: before wbc  after wbc procedure  after exercise preceded by cryotherapy (wbc exercise)  and before and after exercise without wbc (control exercise). the activity of catalase statistically significantly increased after control exercise. moreover  the activity of catalase and superoxide dismutase was lower after wbc exercise than after control exercise (p < 0.001). after wbc exercise  the level of il-6 and il-1β was also lower (p < 0.001) than after control exercise. the obtained results may suggest that cryotherapy prior to exercise may have some antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties. the relations between the level of studied oxidative stress and inflammatory markers may testify to the contribution of reactive oxygen species in cytokines release into the blood system in response to exercise and wbc.
1313,tolerance of whole-genome doubling propagates chromosomal instability and accelerates cancer genome evolution.,unlabelled the contribution of whole-genome doubling to chromosomal instability (cin) and tumor evolution is unclear. we use long-term culture of isogenic tetraploid cells from a stable diploid colon cancer progenitor to investigate how a genome-doubling event affects genome stability over time. rare cells that survive genome doubling demonstrate increased tolerance to chromosome aberrations. tetraploid cells do not exhibit increased frequencies of structural or numerical cin per chromosome. however  the tolerant phenotype in tetraploid cells  coupled with a doubling of chromosome aberrations per cell  allows chromosome abnormalities to evolve specifically in tetraploids  recapitulating chromosomal changes in genomically complex colorectal tumors. finally  a genome-doubling event is independently predictive of poor relapse-free survival in early-stage disease in two independent cohorts in multivariate analyses [discovery data: hazard ratio (hr)  4.70  95% confidence interval (ci)  1.04-21.37; validation data: hr  1.59  95% ci  1.05-2.42]. these data highlight an important role for the tolerance of genome doubling in driving cancer genome evolution. significance our work sheds light on the importance of whole-genome–doubling events in colorectal cancer evolution. we show that tetraploid cells undergo rapid genomic changes and recapitulate the genetic alterations seen in chromosomally unstable tumors. furthermore  we demonstrate that a genome-doubling event is prognostic of poor relapse-free survival in this disease type.
1315,aluminum fluoride stimulates surface protrusions in cells overexpressing the arf6 gtpase,to study the effector function of the adp- ribosylation factor (arf) 6 gtp-binding protein  we transfected hela cells with wild-type  epitope-tagged arf6. previously shown to indirectly activate the arf1 gtpase  aluminum fluoride (aif) treatment of arf6-transfected cells resulted in a redistribution of both arf6 and actin to discrete sites on the plasma membrane  which became increasingly protrusive over time. the effects of aif were reversible  specific to cells transfected with wild-type arf6  and resembled the cellular protrusions observed in cells expressing the gtpase defective mutant of arf6. importantly  the protrusions observed in cells transfected with arf6 were distinct from the enhanced stress fibers and membrane ruffles observed in cells transfected with rhoa and rac1  respectively. in cells forming protrusions  there was an apparent stimulation of macropinocytosis and membrane recycling within the protrusive structures. in contrast  no block in transferrin uptake or alteration of the distribution of clathrin ap-2 complexes was detected in these cells. the aif-induced  arf6- dependent formation of protrusive structures was blocked by cytochalasin d and inhibitors of the lipoxygenase pathway. these observations support a novel role for the arf6 gtpase in modeling the plasma membrane and underlying cytoskeleton.
1317,hiv–1 infects multipotent progenitor cells causing cell death and establishing latent cellular reservoirs,hiv causes a chronic infection characterized by depletion of cd4(+) t lymphocytes and the development of opportunistic infections. despite drugs that inhibit viral spread  hiv infection has been difficult to cure because of uncharacterized reservoirs of infected cells that are resistant to highly active antiretroviral therapy (haart) and the immune response. here we used cd34(+) cells from infected people as well as in vitro studies of wild-type hiv to show infection and killing of cd34(+) multipotent hematopoietic progenitor cells (hpcs). in some hpcs  we detected latent infection that stably persisted in cell culture until viral gene expression was activated by differentiation factors. a unique reporter hiv that directly detects latently infected cells in vitro confirmed the presence of distinct populations of active and latently infected hpcs. these findings have major implications for understanding hiv bone marrow pathology and the mechanisms by which hiv causes persistent infection.
1319,experimental and clinical studies on lactate and pyruvate as indicators of the severity of acute circulatory failure (shock).,the increase in lactate (l) and pyruvate (p) content of arterial blood during experimental and clinical shock states and the extent to which such increases serve as measures of oxygen deficit and irreversible injury were investigated on an empirical basis. a standardized method for production of hemorrhagic shock in the wistar rat was employed. during a 4-hour bleeding period  oxygen consumption of the rat was reduced to approximately 40% of control value  ph was reduced from 7.39 to 7.08  and a concurrent increase in l from 0.80 to 6.06 mm and in p from 0.07 to 0.18 mm were observed. cumulative oxygen debt correlated with log l (r = 0.50; p < 0.0005) and both were significantly related to survival. correlation of cumulative oxygen debt and survival  both with p and with computed values of the lactate pyruvate ratio (l/p) and excess lactate (xl)  were of no higher magnitude. partial correlation analysis demonstrated that neither the measurement of p nor the computation of l/p or xl improved predictability...
1321,inducible nitric oxide synthase in pulmonary alveolar macrophages from patients with tuberculosis,the high-output pathway of nitric oxide production helps protect mice from infection by several pathogens  including mycobacterium tuberculosis. however  based on studies of cells cultured from blood  it is controversial whether human mononuclear phagocytes can express the corresponding inducible nitric oxide synthase (inos;nos2). the present study examined alveolar macrophages fixed directly after bronchopulmonary lavage. an average of 65% of the macrophages from 11 of 11 patients with untreated  culture-positive pulmonary tuberculosis reacted with an antibody documented herein to be monospecific for human nos2. in contrast  a mean of 10% of bronchoalveolar lavage cells were positive from each of five clinically normal subjects. tuberculosis patients' macrophages displayed diaphorase activity in the same proportion that they stained for nos2  under assay conditions wherein the diaphorase reaction was strictly dependent on nos2 expression. bronchoalveolar lavage specimens also contained nos2 mrna. thus  macrophages in the lungs of people with clinically active mycobacterium tuberculosis infection often express catalytically competent nos2.
1323,position-specific gap penalties,the sensitivity of the commonly used progressive multiple sequence alignment method has been greatly improved for the alignment of divergent protein sequences. firstly  individual weights are assigned to each sequence in a partial alignment in order to down-weight near-duplicate sequences and up-weight the most divergent ones. secondly  amino acid substitution matrices are varied at different alignment stages according to the divergence of the sequences to be aligned. thirdly  residue-specific gap penalties and locally reduced gap penalties in hydrophilic regions encourage new gaps in potential loop regions rather than regular secondary structure. fourthly  positions in early alignments where gaps have been opened receive locally reduced gap penalties to encourage the opening up of new gaps at these positions. these modifications are incorporated into a new program  clustal w which is freely available.
1325,seroepidemiological survey of feline retrovirus infections in cats in taiwan in 1993 and 1994.,in order to investigate the prevalence of infections with three feline retroviruses feline immunodeficiency virus (fiv)  feline leukemia virus (felv) and feline syncytial virus (fsv) in taiwan  we collected a total of 75 blood samples from cats from veterinary hospitals  a breeding cattery and a homeless shelter in 1993 and 1994. we examined the presences of anti-fiv and fsv antibodies and felv-p27 antigen in these samples by the indirect immunofluorescence and/or enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. all of the serum samples positive for fiv were obtained from homeless cats and the overall fiv positive rate was 4%. the overall positive rates of fsv and felv were 28% and 1.3%  respectively. from these results  together with previous seroepidemiological surveys by others  it was revealed that the prevalence of fiv and felv infections appeared to be lower in taiwan than in the united states or japan. in contrast  the prevalence of fsv infection in taiwan was as high as that in japan.
1327,extraction and analysis of multiple periodic motions in video sequences,the analysis of periodic or repetitive motions is useful in many applications  such as the recognition and classification of human and animal activities. existing methods for the analysis of periodic motions first extract motion trajectories using spatial information and then determine if they are periodic. these approaches are mostly based on feature matching or spatial correlation  which are often infeasible  unreliable  or computationally demanding. in this paper  we present a new approach  based on the time- frequency analysis of the video sequence as a whole. multiple periodic trajectories are extracted and their periods are estimated simultaneously. the objects that are moving in a periodic manner are extracted using the spatial domain information. experiments with synthetic and real sequences display the capabilities of this approach.
1329,copd: epidemiology  prevalence  morbidity and mortality  and disease heterogeneity.,copd continues to cause a heavy health and economic burden both in the united states and around the world. some of the risk factors for copd are well-known and include smoking  occupational exposures  air pollution  airway hyperresponsiveness  asthma  and certain genetic variations  although many questions  such as why < 20% of smokers develop significant airway obstruction  remain. precise definitions of copd vary and are frequently dependent on an accurate diagnosis of the problem by a physician. these differences in the definition of copd can have large effects on the estimates of copd in the population. furthermore  evidence that copd represents several different disease processes with potentially different interventions continues to emerge. in most of the world  copd prevalence and mortality are still increasing and likely will continue to rise in response to increases in smoking  particularly by women and adolescents. resources aimed at smoking cessation and prevention  copd education and early detection  and better treatment will be of the most benefit in our continuing efforts against this important cause of morbidity and mortality.
1331,mutant kras is a druggable target for pancreatic cancer.,pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (pda) represents an unmet therapeutic challenge. pda is addicted to the activity of the mutated kras oncogene which is considered so far an undruggable therapeutic target. we propose an approach to target kras effectively in patients using rna interference. to meet this challenge  we have developed a local prolonged sirna delivery system (local drug eluter  loder) shedding sirna against the mutated kras (sig12d loder). the sig12d loder was assessed for its structural  release  and delivery properties in vitro and in vivo. the effect of the sig12d loder on tumor growth was assessed in s.c. and orthotopic mouse models. kras silencing effect was further assessed on the kras downstream signaling pathway. the loder-encapsulated sirna was stable and active in vivo for 155 d. treatment of pda cells with sig12d loder resulted in a significant decrease in kras levels  leading to inhibition of proliferation and epithelial-mesenchymal transition. in vivo  sig12d loder impeded the growth of human pancreatic tumor cells and prolonged mouse survival. we report a reproducible and safe delivery platform based on a miniature biodegradable polymeric matrix  for the controlled and prolonged delivery of sirna. this technology provides the following advantages: (i) sirna is protected from degradation; (ii) the sirna is slowly released locally within the tumor for prolonged periods; and (iii) the sig12d loder elicits a therapeutic effect  thereby demonstrating that mutated kras is indeed a druggable target.
1333,basics of pd-1 in self-tolerance  infection  and cancer immunity,successful cancer treatment requires understanding host immune response against tumor cells. pd-1 belongs to the cd28 superfamily of receptors that work as “checkpoints” of immune activation. pd-1 maintains immune self-tolerance to prevent autoimmunity and controls t-cell reaction during infection to prevent excessive tissue damage. tumor cells that arise from normal tissue acquire mutations that can be targeted by lymphocytes. accumulating lines of evidence suggest that tumor cells evade host immune attack by expressing physiological pd-1 ligands and stimulating pd-1 on the lymphocytes. based on this idea  researchers have successfully demonstrated that systemic administration of monoclonal antibodies that inhibit the binding of pd-1 to the ligands reactivated t cells and augmented the anti-cancer immune response. in this review  i summarize the basics of t-cell biology and its regulation by pd-1 and discuss the current understanding and questions about this multifaceted molecule.
1335,podoplanin-rich stromal networks induce dendritic cell motility via activation of the c-type lectin receptor clec-2,to initiate adaptive immunity  dendritic cells (dcs) move from parenchymal tissues to lymphoid organs by migrating along stromal scaffolds that display the glycoprotein podoplanin (pdpn). pdpn is expressed by lymphatic endothelial and fibroblastic reticular cells and promotes blood-lymph separation during development by activating the c-type lectin receptor  clec-2  on platelets. here  we describe a role for clec-2 in the morphodynamic behavior and motility of dcs. clec-2 deficiency in dcs impaired their entry into lymphatics and trafficking to and within lymph nodes  thereby reducing t cell priming. clec-2 engagement of pdpn was necessary for dcs to spread and migrate along stromal surfaces and sufficient to induce membrane protrusions. clec-2 activation triggered cell spreading via downregulation of rhoa activity and myosin light-chain phosphorylation and triggered f-actin-rich protrusions via vav signaling and rac1 activation. thus  activation of clec-2 by pdpn rearranges the actin cytoskeleton in dcs to promote efficient motility along stromal surfaces.
1337,role of endothelial shear stress in the natural history of coronary atherosclerosis and vascular remodeling: molecular  cellular  and vascular behavior.,although the entire coronary tree is exposed to the atherogenic effect of the systemic risk factors  atherosclerotic lesions form at specific arterial regions  where low and oscillatory endothelial shear stress (ess) occur. low ess modulates endothelial gene expression through complex mechanoreception and mechanotransduction processes  inducing an atherogenic endothelial phenotype and formation of an early atherosclerotic plaque. each early plaque exhibits an individual natural history of progression  regression  or stabilization  which is dependent not only on the formation and progression of atherosclerosis but also on the vascular remodeling response. although the pathophysiologic mechanisms involved in the remodeling of the atherosclerotic wall are incompletely understood  the dynamic interplay between local hemodynamic milieu  low ess in particular  and the biology of the wall is likely to be important. in this review  we explore the molecular  cellular  and vascular processes supporting the role of low ess in the natural history of coronary atherosclerosis and vascular remodeling and indicate likely mechanisms concerning the different natural history trajectories of individual coronary lesions. atherosclerotic plaques associated with excessive expansive remodeling evolve to high-risk plaques  because low ess conditions persist  thereby promoting continued local lipid accumulation  inflammation  oxidative stress  matrix breakdown  and eventually further plaque progression and excessive expansive remodeling. an enhanced understanding of the pathobiologic processes responsible for atherosclerosis and vascular remodeling might allow for early identification of a high-risk coronary plaque and thereby provide a rationale for innovative diagnostic and/or therapeutic strategies for the management of coronary patients and prevention of acute coronary syndromes.
1339,thawing frozen robust multi-array analysis (frma),background a novel method of microarray preprocessing--frozen robust multi-array analysis (frma)--has recently been developed. this algorithm allows the user to preprocess arrays individually while retaining the advantages of multi-array preprocessing methods. the frozen parameter estimates required by this algorithm are generated using a large database of publicly available arrays. curation of such a database and creation of the frozen parameter estimates is time-consuming; therefore  frma has only been implemented on the most widely used affymetrix platforms. results we present an r package  frmatools  that allows the user to quickly create his or her own frozen parameter vectors. we describe how this package fits into a preprocessing workflow and explore the size of the training dataset needed to generate reliable frozen parameter estimates. this is followed by a discussion of specific situations in which one might wish to create one's own frma implementation. for a few specific scenarios  we demonstrate that frma performs well even when a large database of arrays in unavailable. conclusions by allowing the user to easily create his or her own frma implementation  the frmatools package greatly increases the applicability of the frma algorithm. the frmatools package is freely available as part of the bioconductor project.
1341,nuclear repositioning of the vsg promoter during developmental silencing in trypanosoma brucei,interphase nuclear repositioning of chromosomes has been implicated in the epigenetic regulation of rna polymerase (pol) ii transcription. however  little is known about the nuclear position–dependent regulation of rna pol i–transcribed loci. trypanosoma brucei is an excellent model system to address this question because its two main surface protein genes  procyclin and variant surface glycoprotein (vsg)  are transcribed by pol i and undergo distinct transcriptional activation or downregulation events during developmental differentiation. although the monoallelically expressed vsg locus is exclusively localized to an extranucleolar body in the bloodstream form  in this study  we report that nonmutually exclusive procyclin genes are located at the nucleolar periphery. interestingly  ribosomal dna loci and pol i transcription activity are restricted to similar perinucleolar positions. upon developmental transcriptional downregulation  however  the active vsg promoter selectively undergoes a rapid and dramatic repositioning to the nuclear envelope. subsequently  the vsg promoter region was subjected to chromatin condensation. we propose a model whereby the vsg expression site pol i promoter is selectively targeted by temporal nuclear repositioning during developmental silencing.
1343,queueing up for enzymatic processing: correlated signaling through coupled degradation,high-throughput technologies have led to the generation of complex wiring diagrams as a post-sequencing paradigm for depicting the interactions between vast and diverse cellular species. while these diagrams are useful for analyzing biological systems on a large scale  a detailed understanding of the molecular mechanisms that underlie the observed network connections is critical for the further development of systems and synthetic biology. here  we use queueing theory to investigate how 'waiting lines' can lead to correlations between protein 'customers' that are coupled solely through a downstream set of enzymatic 'servers'. using the e. coli clpxp degradation machine as a model processing system  we observe significant cross-talk between two networks that are indirectly coupled through a common set of processors. we further illustrate the implications of enzymatic queueing using a synthetic biology application  in which two independent synthetic networks demonstrate synchronized behavior when common clpxp machinery is overburdened. our results demonstrate that such post-translational processes can lead to dynamic connections in cellular networks and may provide a mechanistic understanding of existing but currently inexplicable links.
1345,preexisting helminth infection induces inhibition of innate pulmonary anti-tuberculosis defense by engaging the il-4 receptor pathway,tuberculosis and helminthic infections coexist in many parts of the world  yet the impact of helminth-elicited th2 responses on the ability of the host to control mycobacterium tuberculosis (mtb) infection has not been fully explored. we show that mice infected with the intestinal helminth nippostrongylus brasiliensis (nb) exhibit a transitory impairment of resistance to airborne mtb infection. furthermore  a second dose of nb infection substantially increases the bacterial burden in the lungs of co-infected mice. interestingly  the th2 response in the co-infected animals did not impair the onset and development of the protective mtb-specific th1 cellular immune responses. however  the helminth-induced th2 environment resulted in the accumulation of alternatively activated macrophages (aams) in the lung. co-infected mice lacking interleukin (il) 4rα exhibited improved ability to control mtb infection  which was accompanied by significantly reduced accumulation of aams. moreover  il-4rα(-/-) mice adoptively transferred with wild-type macrophages had a significantly higher mtb load in their lungs compared with those that received il-4rα(-/-) macrophages  suggesting a direct contribution for the il-4r pathway to the heightened susceptibility of co-infected animals. the th2 response can thus enhance the intracellular persistence of mtb  in part by mediating the alternative activation of macrophages via the il-4rα signaling pathway.
1347,novel proteinaceous infectious particles cause scrapie.,after infection and a prolonged incubation period  the scrapie agent causes a degenerative disease of the central nervous system in sheep and goats. six lines of evidence including sensitivity to proteases demonstrate that this agent contains a protein that is required for infectivity. although the scrapie agent is irreversibly inactivated by alkali  five procedures with more specificity for modifying nucleic acids failed to cause inactivation. the agent shows heterogeneity with respect to size  apparently a result of its hydrophobicity; the smallest form may have a molecular weight of 50 000 or less. because the novel properties of the scrapie agent distinguish it from viruses  plasmids  and viroids  a new term "prion" is proposed to denote a small proteinaceous infectious particle which is resistant to inactivation by most procedures that modify nucleic acids. knowledge of the scrapie agent structure may have significance for understanding the causes of several degenerative diseases.
1349,monitoring spatiotemporal biogenesis of macromolecular assemblies by pulse-chase epitope labeling.,many cellular proteins perform their roles within macromolecular assemblies. hence  an understanding of how these multiprotein complexes form is a fundamental question in cell biology. we developed a translation-controlled pulse-chase system that allows time-resolved isolation of newly forming multiprotein complexes in chemical quantities suitable for biochemical and cell biological analysis. the "pulse" is triggered by an unnatural amino acid  which induces immediate translation of an amber stop codon repressed mrna encoding the protein of interest with a built-in tag for detection and purification. the "chase" is elicited by stopping translation of this bait via a riboswitch in the respective mrna. over the course of validating our method  we discovered a distinct time-resolved assembly step during npc biogenesis and could directly monitor the spatiotemporal maturation of preribosomes via immunofluorescence detection and purification of a pulse-labeled ribosomal protein. thus  we provide an innovative strategy to study dynamic protein assembly within cellular networks.
1351,acetylation of apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease-1 regulates helicobacter pylori-mediated gastric epithelial cell apoptosis.,background & aims helicobacter pylori-induced gastric epithelial cell (gec) apoptosis is a complex process that includes activation of the tumor suppressor p53. p53-mediated apoptosis involves p53 activation  bax transcription  and cytochrome c release from mitochondria. apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease-1 (ape-1) regulates transcriptional activity of p53  and h pylori induce ape-1 expression in human gecs. h pylori infection increases intracellular calcium ion concentration [ca2+]i of gecs  which induces ape-1 acetylation. we investigated the effects of h pylori infection and ape-1 acetylation on gec apoptosis. methods ags cells (wild-type or with suppressed ape-1)  kato iii cells  and cells isolated from gastric biopsy specimens were infected with h pylori. effects were examined by immunoblotting  real-time reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction  immunoprecipitation  immunofluorescence microscopy  chromatin immunoprecipitation  mobility shift  dna binding  and luciferase assays. results h pylori infection increased [ca2+]i and acetylation of ape-1 in gecs  but the acetylation status of ape-1 did not affect the transcriptional activity of p53. in gecs  expression of a form of ape-1 that could not be acetylated increased total and mitochondrial levels of bax and induced release of cytochrome c and fragmentation of dna; expression of wild-type ape-1 reduced these apoptotic events. we identified a negative calcium response element in the human bax promoter and found that poly (adenosine diphosphate-ribose) polymerase 1 recruited the acetylated ape-1/histone deacetylase-1 repressor complex to bax ncare. conclusions h pylori-mediated acetylation of ape-1 suppresses bax expression; this prevents p53-mediated apoptosis when h pylori infect gecs.
1353,biochemical analysis of tssk  a core component of the bacterial type vi secretion system  reveals distinct oligomeric states of tssk and identifies a tssk–tssfg subcomplex,gram-negative bacteria use the type vi secretion system (t6ss) to inject toxic proteins into rival bacteria or eukaryotic cells. however  the mechanism of the t6ss is incompletely understood. in the present study  we investigated a conserved component of the t6ss  tssk  using the antibacterial t6ss of serratia marcescens as a model system. tssk was confirmed to be essential for effector secretion by the t6ss. the native protein  although not an integral membrane protein  appeared to localize to the inner membrane  consistent with its presence within a membrane-anchored assembly. recombinant tssk purified from s. marcescens was found to exist in several stable oligomeric forms  namely trimer  hexamer and higher-order species. native-level purification of tssk identified tssf and tssg as interacting proteins. tssf and tssg  conserved t6ss components of unknown function  were required for t6ss activity  but not for correct localization of tssk. a complex containing tssk  tssf and tssg was subsequently purified in vitro  confirming that these three proteins form a new subcomplex within the t6ss. our findings provide new insight into the t6ss assembly  allowing us to propose a model whereby tssk recruits tssfg into the membrane-associated t6ss complex and different oligomeric states of tssk may contribute to the dynamic mechanism of the system.
1355,using routine surveillance data to estimate the epidemic potential of emerging zoonoses: application to the emergence of us swine origin influenza a h3n2v virus,background prior to emergence in human populations  zoonoses such as sars cause occasional infections in human populations exposed to reservoir species. the risk of widespread epidemics in humans can be assessed by monitoring the reproduction number r (average number of persons infected by a human case). however  until now  estimating r required detailed outbreak investigations of human clusters  for which resources and expertise are not always available. additionally  existing methods do not correct for important selection and under-ascertainment biases. here  we present simple estimation methods that overcome many of these limitations. methods and findings our approach is based on a parsimonious mathematical model of disease transmission and only requires data collected through routine surveillance and standard case investigations. we apply it to assess the transmissibility of swine-origin influenza a h3n2v-m virus in the us  nipah virus in malaysia and bangladesh  and also present a non-zoonotic example (cholera in the dominican republic). estimation is based on two simple summary statistics  the proportion infected by the natural reservoir among detected cases (g) and among the subset of the first detected cases in each cluster (f). if detection of a case does not affect detection of other cases from the same cluster  we find that r can be estimated by 1-g; otherwise r can be estimated by 1-f when the case detection rate is low. in more general cases  bounds on r can still be derived. conclusions we have developed a simple approach with limited data requirements that enables robust assessment of the risks posed by emerging zoonoses. we illustrate this by deriving transmissibility estimates for the h3n2v-m virus  an important step in evaluating the possible pandemic threat posed by this virus. please see later in the article for the editors' summary.
1357,the ribosome biogenesis factor nol11 is required for optimal rdna transcription and craniofacial development in xenopus ,the production of ribosomes is ubiquitous and fundamental to life. as such  it is surprising that defects in ribosome biogenesis underlie a growing number of symptomatically distinct inherited disorders  collectively called ribosomopathies. we previously determined that the nucleolar protein  nol11  is essential for optimal pre-rrna transcription and processing in human tissue culture cells. however  the role of nol11 in the development of a multicellular organism remains unknown. here  we reveal a critical function for nol11 in vertebrate ribosome biogenesis and craniofacial development. nol11 is strongly expressed in the developing cranial neural crest (cnc) of both amphibians and mammals  and knockdown of xenopus nol11 results in impaired pre-rrna transcription and processing  increased apoptosis  and abnormal development of the craniofacial cartilages. inhibition of p53 rescues this skeletal phenotype  but not the underlying ribosome biogenesis defect  demonstrating an evolutionarily conserved control mechanism through which ribosome-impaired craniofacial cells are removed. excessive activation of this mechanism impairs craniofacial development. together  our findings reveal a novel requirement for nol11 in craniofacial development  present the first frog model of a ribosomopathy  and provide further insight into the clinically important relationship between specific ribosome biogenesis proteins and craniofacial cell survival.
1359,identification of splenic reservoir monocytes and their deployment to inflammatory sites.,a current paradigm states that monocytes circulate freely and patrol blood vessels but differentiate irreversibly into dendritic cells (dcs) or macrophages upon tissue entry. here we show that bona fide undifferentiated monocytes reside in the spleen and outnumber their equivalents in circulation. the reservoir monocytes assemble in clusters in the cords of the subcapsular red pulp and are distinct from macrophages and dcs. in response to ischemic myocardial injury  splenic monocytes increase their motility  exit the spleen en masse  accumulate in injured tissue  and participate in wound healing. these observations uncover a role for the spleen as a site for storage and rapid deployment of monocytes and identify splenic monocytes as a resource that the body exploits to regulate inflammation.
1361,the abbreviated pluripotent cell cycle.,human embryonic stem cells (hescs) and induced pluripotent stem cells proliferate rapidly and divide symmetrically producing equivalent progeny cells. in contrast  lineage committed cells acquire an extended symmetrical cell cycle. self-renewal of tissue-specific stem cells is sustained by asymmetric cell division where one progeny cell remains a progenitor while the partner progeny cell exits the cell cycle and differentiates. there are three principal contexts for considering the operation and regulation of the pluripotent cell cycle: temporal  regulatory  and structural. the primary temporal context that the pluripotent self-renewal cell cycle of hescs is a short g1 period without reducing periods of time allocated to s phase  g2  and mitosis. the rules that govern proliferation in hescs remain to be comprehensively established. however  several lines of evidence suggest a key role for the naïve transcriptome of hescs  which is competent to stringently regulate the embryonic stem cell (esc) cell cycle. this supports the requirements of pluripotent cells to self-propagate while suppressing expression of genes that confer lineage commitment and/or tissue specificity. however  for the first time  we consider unique dimensions to the architectural organization and assembly of regulatory machinery for gene expression in nuclear microenviornments that define parameters of pluripotency. from both fundamental biological and clinical perspectives  understanding control of the abbreviated esc cycle can provide options to coordinate control of proliferation versus differentiation. wound healing  tissue engineering  and cell-based therapy to mitigate developmental aberrations illustrate applications that benefit from knowledge of the biology of the pluripotent cell cycle.
1363,understanding the odd science of aging,evolutionary considerations suggest aging is caused not by active gene programming but by evolved limitations in somatic maintenance  resulting in a build-up of damage. ecological factors such as hazard rates and food availability influence the trade-offs between investing in growth  reproduction  and somatic survival  explaining why species evolved different life spans and why aging rate can sometimes be altered  for example  by dietary restriction. to understand the cell and molecular basis of aging is to unravel the multiplicity of mechanisms causing damage to accumulate and the complex array of systems working to keep damage at bay.
1365,dealing with substantial heterogeneity in cochrane reviews. cross-sectional study,background dealing with heterogeneity in meta-analyses is often tricky  and there is only limited advice for authors on what to do. we investigated how authors addressed different degrees of heterogeneity  in particular whether they used a fixed effect model  which assumes that all the included studies are estimating the same true effect  or a random effects model where this is not assumed. methods we sampled randomly 60 cochrane reviews from 2008  which presented a result in its first meta-analysis with substantial heterogeneity (i2 greater than 50%  i.e. more than 50% of the variation is due to heterogeneity rather than chance). we extracted information on choice of statistical model  how the authors had handled the heterogeneity  and assessed the methodological quality of the reviews in relation to this. results the distribution of heterogeneity was rather uniform in the whole i2 interval  50-100%. a fixed effect model was used in 33 reviews (55%)  but there was no correlation between i2 and choice of model (p = 0.79). we considered that 20 reviews (33%)  16 of which had used a fixed effect model  had major problems. the most common problems were: use of a fixed effect model and lack of rationale for choice of that model  lack of comment on even severe heterogeneity and of reservations and explanations of its likely causes. the problematic reviews had significantly fewer included trials than other reviews (4.3 vs. 8.0  p = 0.024). the problems became less pronounced with time  as those reviews that were most recently updated more often used a random effects model. conclusion one-third of cochrane reviews with substantial heterogeneity had major problems in relation to their handling of heterogeneity. more attention is needed to this issue  as the problems we identified can be essential for the conclusions of the reviews.
1367,preferential binding of a kinesin-1 motor to gtp-tubulin–rich microtubules underlies polarized vesicle transport,polarized transport in neurons is fundamental for the formation of neuronal circuitry. a motor domain-containing truncated kif5 (a kinesin-1) recognizes axonal microtubules  which are enriched in eb1 binding sites  and selectively accumulates at the tips of axons. however  it remains unknown what cue kif5 recognizes to result in this selective accumulation. we found that axonal microtubules were preferentially stained by the anti-gtp-tubulin antibody hmb11. super-resolution microscopy combined with em immunocytochemistry revealed that hmb11 was localized at kif5 attachment sites. in addition  eb1  which binds preferentially to guanylyl-methylene-diphosphate (gmpcpp) microtubules in vitro  recognized hmb11 binding sites on axonal microtubules. further  expression of hmb11 antibody in neurons disrupted the selective accumulation of truncated kif5 in the axon tips. in vitro studies revealed approximately threefold stronger binding of kif5 motor head to gmpcpp microtubules than to gdp microtubules. collectively  these data suggest that the abundance of gtp-tubulin in axonal microtubules may underlie selective kif5 localization and polarized axonal vesicular transport.
1369,long term pharmacotherapy for obesity and overweight: updated meta-analysis.,objective to summarise the long term efficacy of anti-obesity drugs in reducing weight and improving health status. design updated meta-analysis of randomised trials. data sources medline  embase  the cochrane controlled trials register  the current science meta-register of controlled trials  and reference lists of identified articles. all data sources were searched from december 2002 (end date of last search) to december 2006. studies reviewed double blind randomised placebo controlled trials of approved anti-obesity drugs used in adults (age over 18) for one year or longer. results 30 trials of one to four years' duration met the inclusion criteria: 16 orlistat (n=10 631 participants)  10 sibutramine (n=2623)  and four rimonabant (n=6365). of these  14 trials were new and 16 had previously been identified. attrition rates averaged 30-40%. compared with placebo  orlistat reduced weight by 2.9 kg (95% confidence interval 2.5 kg to 3.2 kg)  sibutramine by 4.2 kg (3.6 kg to 4.7 kg)  and rimonabant by 4.7 kg (4.1 kg to 5.3 kg). patients receiving active drug treatment were significantly more likely to achieve 5% and 10% weight loss thresholds. orlistat reduced the incidence of diabetes and improved concentrations of total cholesterol and low density lipoprotein cholesterol  blood pressure  and glycaemic control in patients with diabetes but increased rates of gastrointestinal side effects and slightly lowered concentrations of high density lipoprotein. sibutramine improved [corrected] concentrations of high density lipoprotein cholesterol and triglycerides [corrected] rimonabant improved concentrations of high density lipoprotein cholesterol and triglycerides  blood pressure  and glycaemic control in patients with diabetes but increased the risk of mood disorders. conclusions orlistat  sibutramine  and rimonabant modestly reduce weight  have differing effects on cardiovascular risk profiles  and have specific adverse effects.
1371,osteoclasts control reactivation of dormant myeloma cells by remodelling the endosteal niche,multiple myeloma is largely incurable  despite development of therapies that target myeloma cell-intrinsic pathways. disease relapse is thought to originate from dormant myeloma cells  localized in specialized niches  which resist therapy and repopulate the tumour. however  little is known about the niche  and how it exerts cell-extrinsic control over myeloma cell dormancy and reactivation. in this study  we track individual myeloma cells by intravital imaging as they colonize the endosteal niche  enter a dormant state and subsequently become activated to form colonies. we demonstrate that dormancy is a reversible state that is switched 'on' by engagement with bone-lining cells or osteoblasts  and switched 'off' by osteoclasts remodelling the endosteal niche. dormant myeloma cells are resistant to chemotherapy that targets dividing cells. the demonstration that the endosteal niche is pivotal in controlling myeloma cell dormancy highlights the potential for targeting cell-extrinsic mechanisms to overcome cell-intrinsic drug resistance and prevent disease relapse.
1373,ideal in meshes for prolapse  urinary incontinence  and hernia repair.,purpose mesh surgeries are counted among the most frequently applied surgical procedures. despite global spread of mesh applying surgeries  there is no current systematic analysis of incidence and possible prevention of adverse events after mesh implantation. materials and methods based on the recommendations of ideal an in vitro test system for biocompatibility of surgical meshes has been generated (innovation). coating strategies for biocompatibility optimization have been developed (development). the native and modified alloplastic materials have been tested in an animal model over 2 years (exploration and assessment and long-term study). results in 3 meshes  implanted in sheep and explanted at 4 different time points (a  3 months; b  6 months; c  12 months; and d  24 months) over 24 months  thickness of inflammatory tissue (tvt a  35 µm; b  32 µm; c  33 µm; d  28 µm; ultrapro  a  25 µm; b  24 µm; c  21 µm; d  22 µm; pvdf a  20 µm; b  21 µm; c  14 µm; d  15µm)  connective tissue (tvt a  37 µm; b  36 µm; c  43 µm; d  41 µm; ultrapro a  33 µm; b  32 µm; c  40 µm; d  38 µm; pvdf a  25 µm; b  22 µm; c  22 µm; d  24 µm)  and macrophage infiltration (tvt a  36%; b  33%; c  23%; d  20%; ultrapro a  34%; b  28%; c  25%; d  22%; pvdf a  24%; b  18%; c  18%; d  16%) revealed comparable ranking characteristics at every time point after explantation. the in vivo performance of these meshes in a sheep model was predictable with a previously developed in vitro test system. coating of meshes with autologous plasma prior to implantation seems to have a positive effect on the meshes biocompatibility. conclusion we have applied ideal criteria on a new innovation for surgical meshes. the results permit the generation of a ranking of currently available meshes with potential to optimize future meshes.
1375,trpm7 is required for breast tumor cell metastasis.,trpm7 encodes a ca2+-permeable nonselective cation channel with kinase activity. trpm7 has been implicated in control of cell adhesion and migration  but whether trpm7 activity contributes to cancer progression has not been established. here we report that high levels of trpm7 expression independently predict poor outcome in breast cancer patients and that it is functionally required for metastasis formation in a mouse xenograft model of human breast cancer. mechanistic investigation revealed that trpm7 regulated myosin ii-based cellular tension  thereby modifying focal adhesion number  cell-cell adhesion and polarized cell movement. our findings therefore suggest that trpm7 is part of a mechanosensory complex adopted by cancer cells to drive metastasis formation.
1377,progression of preclinical diastolic dysfunction to the development of symptoms.,background preclinical diastolic dysfunction (pdd) has been defined as subjects with normal systolic function  diastolic dysfunction but no symptoms of heart failure (hf). the clinical phenotype and natural history of the syndrome remains poorly defined. this study's objective was to determine the clinical phenotype and progression to hf in a group of patients with normal systolic function and moderate or severe diastolic dysfunction as determinate by doppler criteria without any clinical diagnosis of hf according to the framingham criteria or any symptoms of hf  specifically dyspnoea  oedema or fatigue at the time of echocardiography. methods the authors used resources of the mayo clinic echocardiography database to consecutively select among patients who had an echocardiogram in 2005  a cohort with moderate or severe diastolic dysfunction by doppler criteria and ef >or=50%. patients could not have a diagnosis of hf  or any hf symptoms-specifically dyspnoea  oedema or fatigue-at the time of echocardiography; nor grade 3 or greater valvular dysfunction (except tricuspid valve). a total of 82 patients had their medical chart reviewed. primary endpoint was the time to the development of (1) hf according to the framingham criteria or (2) any symptoms of dyspnoea  oedema or fatigue. results the mean age of the cohort of pdd subjects was 69+/-10 years with a female (67%) preponderance. presence of hypertension was 76%  coronary artery disease was 29%  paroxysmal atrial fibrillation was 26%  estimated creatinine clearance <60 ml/min was 51%. the 2-year cumulative probability of development of hf according to the framingham criteria was 1.9%; however  the 2-year cumulative probability of development of any symptoms was 31.1%. the 2-year cumulative probability for cardiac hospitalisation was 21.2%. peripheral vascular disease and hypertension were independently associated with increased likelihood for the development of symptoms. conclusion the study demonstrates that hypertension  hyperlipidaemia  cad and renal dysfunction are prevalent in patients with pdd. more importantly  although the progression to the development of clinical hf over 2 years was low  there was a moderate degree of progression to development of symptoms and cardiac hospitalisations over 2 years. based on the finding that only pvd and hypertension were independently associated with the progression to the development of symptoms in subject with pdd  the authors speculate that ventricular-arterial interaction may be important to the progression of diastolic dysfunction to the development of symptoms.
1379,chemokine receptor trio: cxcr3  cxcr4 and cxcr7 crosstalk via cxcl11 and cxcl12.,although chemokines are well established to function in immunity and endothelial cell activation and proliferation  a rapidly growing literature suggests that cxc chemokine receptors cxcr3  cxcr4 and cxcr7 are critical in the development and progression of solid tumors. the effect of these chemokine receptors in tumorigenesis is mediated via interactions with shared ligands i-tac (cxcl11) and sdf-1 (cxcl12). over the last decade  cxcr4 has been extensively reported to be overexpressed in most human solid tumors and has earned considerable attention toward elucidating its role in cancer metastasis. to enrich the existing armamentarium of anti-cancerous agents  many inhibitors of cxcl12-cxcr4 axis have emerged as additional or alternative agents for neo-adjuvant treatments and even many of them are in preclinical and clinical stages of their development. however  the discovery of cxcr7 as another receptor for cxcl12 with rather high binding affinity and recent reports about its involvement in cancer progression  has questioned the potential of "selective blockade" of cxcr4 as cancer chemotherapeutics. interestingly  cxcr7 can also bind another chemokine cxcl11  which is an established ligand for cxcr3. recent reports have documented that cxcr3 and their ligands are overexpressed in different solid tumors and regulate tumor growth and metastasis. therefore  it is important to consider the interactions and crosstalk between these three chemokine receptors and their ligand mediated signaling cascades for the development of effective anti-cancer therapies. emerging evidence also indicates that these receptors are differentially expressed in tumor endothelial cells as well as in cancer stem cells  suggesting their direct role in regulating tumor angiogenesis and metastasis. in this review  we will focus on the signals mediated by this receptor trio via their shared ligands and their role in tumor growth and progression.
1381,brief  four-session group cbt reduces binge eating behaviors among bariatric surgery candidates.,background the objective of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of a brief  4-session cognitive behavioral  group psychotherapy for binge eating among bariatric surgery candidates at an academic medical center. binge eating behaviors have been linked to poorer outcomes among bariatric surgery patients  and binge eating disorder have be considered a contraindication in surgery programs  some of which have mandated preoperative binge eating treatment. however  no previous studies have examined whether a preoperative binge eating intervention could successfully reduce binge eating behaviors among severely obese bariatric surgery candidates. methods a total of 243 bariatric surgery candidates completed a brief cognitive behavioral group treatment for binge eating behaviors and were administered the binge eating scale and reported the number of weekly binge eating episodes at the initial psychological evaluation and again after the group sessions. the study used a pre-post intervention design. results the results suggested significant reductions in both binge eating behaviors and cognitions and binge eating episodes after the group intervention. the intervention's effectiveness did not differ according to gender or ethnicity (black versus white). conclusion a brief cognitive behavioral intervention can reduce binge eating behaviors among bariatric surgery candidates. given the potential influence of binge eating on outcomes  bariatric surgery programs could benefit by treating binge eating before surgery.
1383,epigenetic reprogramming and induced pluripotency.,the cloning of animals from adult cells has demonstrated that the developmental state of adult cells can be reprogrammed into that of embryonic cells by uncharacterized factors within the oocyte. more recently  transcription factors have been identified that can induce pluripotency in somatic cells without the use of oocytes  generating induced pluripotent stem (ips) cells. ips cells provide a unique platform to dissect the molecular mechanisms that underlie epigenetic reprogramming. moreover  ips cells can teach us about principles of normal development and disease  and might ultimately facilitate the treatment of patients by custom-tailored cell therapy.
1385,membrane topology of the 60-kda oxa1p homologue from escherichia coli.,we have characterized the membrane topology of a 60-kda inner membrane protein from escherichia coli that is homologous to the recently identified oxa1p protein in saccharomyces cerevisiae mitochondria implicated in the assembly of mitochondrial inner membrane proteins. hydrophobicity and alkaline phosphatase fusion analyses suggest a membrane topology with six transmembrane segments  including an n-terminal signal-anchor sequence not present in mitochondrial oxa1p. in contrast to partial n-terminal fusion protein constructs  the full-length protein folds into a protease-resistant conformation  suggesting that important folding determinants are present in the c-terminal part of the molecule.
1387,hepatitis c virus (hcv) vertical transmission in 12-month-old infants born to hcv-infected women and assessment of maternal risk factors,background. hepatitis c virus (hcv) is an underappreciated cause of pediatric liver disease  most frequently acquired by vertical transmission (vt). current guidelines that include the option of screening infants for hcv rna at 1-2 months are based on data prior to current real-time polymerase chain reaction (pcr)-based testing. previous studies have demonstrated vt rates of 4%-15% and an association with high maternal viral load. we evaluated hcv rna in infants with hcv vt and assessed maternal risk factors in a prospective cohort in cairo  egypt. methods. pregnant women were screened for hcv from december 2012 to march 2014. for those with hcv viremia  their infants were tested at 12 months for hcv rna using real-time pcr. maternal risk factors assessed for hcv vt association included hcv rna levels  mode of delivery  and maternal il28b genotype. results. of 2514 women screened  a total of 54 women were viremic (2.1%) and delivered 56 infants. of those  51 infants of 49 women were tested at 12 months of age. only 7 infants were viremic  with an hcv vt rate of 14.3% (7 of 49). median hcv rna in the infants was 2100 iu/ml. none of the maternal risk factors analyzed were associated with transmission. conclusions. in egypt where hcv is highly endemic  we observed an overall 12-month hcv vt rate of 14.3%. further studies should focus on better identification of pregnant women more likely to vertically transmit hcv and earlier testing of infants to identify those likely to develop chronicity.
1389,the burden of trachoma in ayod county of southern sudan,background blindness due to trachoma is avoidable through surgery  antibiotics  facial hygiene and environmental improvements (safe). recent surveys have shown trachoma to be a serious cause of blindness in southern sudan. we conducted this survey in ayod county of jonglei state to estimate the need for intervention activities to eliminate blinding trachoma. methodology and findings a cross-sectional two-stage cluster random survey was conducted in november 2006. all residents of selected households were clinically assessed for trachoma using the world health organization (who) simplified grading scheme. a total of 2 335 people from 392 households were examined  of whom 1 107 were over 14 years of age. prevalence of signs of active trachoma in children 1-9 years of age was: trachomatous inflammation follicular (tf) = 80.1% (95% confidence interval [ci]  73.9-86.3); trachomatous inflammation intense (ti) = 60.7% (95% ci  54.6-66.8); and tf and/or ti (active trachoma) = 88.3% (95% ci  83.7-92.9). prevalence of trachomatous trichiasis (tt) was 14.6% (95% ci  10.9-18.3) in adults over 14 years of age; 2.9% (95% ci  0.4-5.3) in children 1-14 years of age; and 8.4% (95% ci  5.5-11.3) overall. the prevalence of corneal opacity in persons over 14 years of age with tt was 6.4% (95% ci  4.5-8.3). no statistically significant difference was observed in the prevalence of trachoma signs between genders. trachoma affected almost all households surveyed: 384/392 (98.0%) had at least one person with active trachoma and 130 (33.2%) had at least one person with trichiasis. conclusions trachoma is an unnecessary public health problem in ayod. the high prevalence of active trachoma and trichiasis confirms the severe burden of blinding trachoma found in other post-conflict areas of southern sudan. based on who recommended thresholds  all aspects of the safe strategy are indicated to eliminate blinding trachoma in ayod.
1391,perinatal mortality in rural china: retrospective cohort study.,objectives to explore the use of local civil registration data to assess the perinatal mortality in a typical rural county in a less developed province in china  1999-2000. design retrospective cohort study. pregnancies in a cohort of women followed from registration of pregnancy to outcome of infant seven days after birth. setting routine family planning records in 20 rural townships in eastern china. subjects 3697 pregnancies registered by the local family planning system during 1999. main outcome measures abortions  stillbirths  early neonatal mortality  perinatal mortality. results only three cases were lost to follow up. the average age of the women at pregnancy was 25.9 years. three hundred and twelve pregnancies were aborted and 240 ended in miscarriage (total 552  15%). the perinatal mortality rate was 69 per 1000 births  the rate of stillbirth was 24 per 1000 births  and the early neonatal mortality was 46 per 1000 live births. the early neonatal mortality was 29 in boys and 69 in girls per 1000 live births. the perinatal mortality rate increased notably with parity and was higher in townships having lower income per capita. conclusions the family planning system at the most local level is a useful data source for studying perinatal mortality in rural china. the perinatal mortality rate in the study county was higher than previously reported for both rural and urban areas in china. the results by parity and sex of the infant raise concern over the impact of the one child policy.
1393,nusap is essential for chromatin-induced spindle formation during early embryogenesis.,mitotic spindle assembly is mediated by two processes: a centrosomal and a chromosomal pathway. rangtp regulates the latter process by releasing microtubule-associated proteins from inhibitory complexes. nusap  a microtubule- and dna-binding protein  is a target of rangtp and promotes the formation of microtubules near chromosomes. however  the contribution of nusap to cell proliferation in vivo is unknown. here  we demonstrate that the expression of nusap highly correlates with cell proliferation during embryogenesis and adult life  making it a reliable marker of proliferating cells. additionally  we show that nusap deficiency in mice leads to early embryonic lethality. spindle assembly in nusap-deficient cells is highly inefficient and chromosomes remain dispersed in the mitotic cytoplasm. as a result of sustained spindle checkpoint activity  the cells are unable to progress through mitosis  eventually leading to caspase activation and apoptotic cell death. together  our findings demonstrate that nusap is essential for proliferation of embryonic cells and  simultaneously  they underscore the importance of chromatin-induced spindle assembly.
1395,enhancement of hippocampal pyramidal cell excitability by the novel selective slow-afterhyperpolarization channel blocker 3-(triphenylmethylaminomethyl)pyridine (ucl2077).,the slow afterhyperpolarization (sahp) in hippocampal neurons has been implicated in learning and memory. however  its precise role in cell excitability and central nervous system function has not been explicitly tested for 2 reasons: 1) there are  at present  no selective inhibitors that effectively reduce the underlying current in vivo or in intact in vitro tissue preparations  and 2) although it is known that a small conductance k(+) channel that activates after a rise in [ca(2+)](i) underlies the sahp  the exact molecular identity remains unknown. we show that 3-(triphenylmethylaminomethyl)pyridine (ucl2077)  a novel compound  suppressed the sahp present in hippocampal neurons in culture (ic(50) = 0.5 microm) and in the slice preparation (ic(50) approximately 10 microm). ucl2077 was selective  having minimal effects on ca(2+) channels  action potentials  input resistance and the medium afterhyperpolarization. ucl2077 also had little effect on heterologously expressed small conductance ca(2+)-activated k(+) (sk) channels. moreover  ucl2077 and apamin  a selective sk channel blocker  affected spike firing in hippocampal neurons in different ways. these results provide further evidence that sk channels are unlikely to underlie the sahp. this study also demonstrates that ucl2077  the most potent  selective sahp blocker described so far  is a useful pharmacological tool for exploring the role of sahp channels in the regulation of cell excitability in intact tissue preparations and  potentially  in vivo.
1397,loss of allergen 1 confers a hypervirulent phenotype that resembles mucoid switch variants of cryptococcus neoformans.,microbial survival in a host is usually dependent on the ability of a pathogen to undergo changes that promote escape from host defense mechanisms. the human-pathogenic fungus cryptococcus neoformans undergoes phenotypic switching in vivo that promotes persistence in tissue. by microarray and real-time pcr analyses  the allergen 1 gene (all1) was found to be downregulated in the hypervirulent mucoid switch variant  both during logarithmic growth and during intracellular growth in macrophages. the all1 gene encodes a small cytoplasmic protein that is involved in capsule formation. growth of an all1delta gene deletion mutant was normal. similar to cells of the mucoid switch variant  all1delta cells produced a larger polysaccharide capsule than cells of the smooth parent and the complemented strain produced  and the enlarged capsule inhibited macrophage phagocytosis. the mutant exhibited a modest defect in capsule induction compared to all of the other variants. in animal models the phenotype of the all1delta mutant mimicked the hypervirulent phenotype of the mucoid switch variant  which is characterized by decreased host survival and elevated intracranial pressure. decreased survival is likely the result of both an ineffective cell-mediated immune response and impaired phagocytosis by macrophages. consequently  we concluded that  unlike loss of most virulence-associated genes  where loss of gene function results in attenuated virulence  loss of the all1 gene enhances virulence by altering the host-pathogen interaction and thereby impairing clearance. our data identified the first cryptococcal gene associated with elevated intracranial pressure and support the hypothesis that an environmental opportunistic pathogen has modified its virulence in vivo by epigenetic downregulation of gene function.
1399,diaphragm atrophy and contractile dysfunction in a murine model of pulmonary hypertension,pulmonary hypertension (ph) causes loss of body weight and inspiratory (diaphragm) muscle dysfunction. a model of ph induced by drug (monocrotaline  mct) has been extensively used in mice to examine the etiology of ph. however  it is unclear if ph induced by mct in mice reproduces the loss of body weight and diaphragm muscle dysfunction seen in patients. this is a pre-requisite for widespread use of mice to examine mechanisms of cachexia and diaphragm abnormalities in ph. thus  we measured body and soleus muscle weight  food intake  and diaphragm contractile properties in mice after 6-8 weeks of saline (control) or mct (600 mg/kg) injections. body weight progressively decreased in ph mice  while food intake was similar in both groups. ph decreased (p<0.05) diaphragm maximal isometric specific force  maximal shortening velocity  and peak power. protein carbonyls in whole-diaphragm lysates and the abundance of select myofibrillar proteins were unchanged by ph. our findings show diaphragm isometric and isotonic contractile abnormalities in a murine model of ph induced by mct. overall  the murine model of ph elicited by mct mimics loss of body weight and diaphragm muscle weakness reported in ph patients.
1401,calcium store sensor stromal-interaction molecule 1-dependent signaling plays an important role in cervical cancer growth  migration  and angiogenesis.,store-operated ca(2+) entry (soce) is the principal ca(2+) entry mechanism in nonexcitable cells. stromal-interaction molecule 1 (stim1) is an endoplasmic reticulum ca(2+) sensor that triggers soce activation. however  the role of stim1 in regulating cancer progression remains controversial and its clinical relevance is unclear. here we show that stim1-dependent signaling is important for cervical cancer cell proliferation  migration  and angiogenesis. stim1 overexpression in tumor tissue is noted in 71% cases of early-stage cervical cancer. in tumor tissues  the level of stim1 expression is significantly associated with the risk of metastasis and survival. egf-stimulated cancer cell migration requires stim1 expression and egf increases the interaction between stim1 and orai1 in juxta-membrane areas  and thus induces ca(2+) influx. stim1 involves the activation of ca(2+)-regulated protease calpain  as well as ca(2+)-regulated cytoplasmic kinase pyk2  which regulate the focal-adhesion dynamics of migratory cervical cancer cells. because of an increase of p21 protein levels and a decrease of cdc25c protein levels  stim1-silencing in cervical cancer cells significantly inhibits cell proliferation by arresting the cell cycle at the s and g2/m phases. stim1 also regulates the production of vegf in cervical cancer cells. interference with stim1 expression or blockade of soce activity inhibits tumor angiogenesis and growth in animal models  confirming the crucial role of stim1-mediated ca(2+) influx in aggravating tumor development in vivo. these results make stim1-dependent signaling an attractive target for therapeutic intervention.
1403,report of the national heart  lung  and blood institute workshop on lipoprotein(a) and cardiovascular disease: recent advances and future directions.,it has been estimated that approximately 37% of the us population judged to be at high risk for developing coronary artery disease (cad)  based on the national cholesterol education program guidelines  have increased plasma lipoprotein(a) [lp(a)]  whereas lp(a) is increased in only 14% of those judged to be at low risk. therefore  the importance of establishing a better understanding of the relative contribution of lp(a) to the risk burden for cad and other forms of vascular disease  as well as the underlying mechanisms  is clearly evident. however  the structural complexity and size heterogeneity of lp(a) have hindered the development of immunoassays to accurately measure lp(a) concentrations in plasma. the large intermethod variation in lp(a) values has made it difficult to compare data from different clinical studies and to achieve a uniform interpretation of clinical data. a workshop was recently convened by the national heart  lung  and blood institute (nhlbi) to evaluate our current understanding of lp(a) as a risk factor for atherosclerotic disorders; to determine how future studies could be designed to more clearly define the extent to which  and mechanisms by which  lp(a) participates in these processes; and to present the results of the nhlbi-supported program for the evaluation and standardization of lp(a) immunoassays. this report includes the most recent data presented by the workshop participants and the resulting practical and research recommendations.
1405,estimating the sample mean and standard deviation from the sample size  median  range and/or interquartile range,in systematic reviews and meta-analysis  researchers often pool the results of the sample mean and standard deviation from a set of similar clinical trials. a number of the trials  however  reported the study using the median  the minimum and maximum values  and/or the first and third quartiles. hence  in order to combine results  one may have to estimate the sample mean and standard deviation for such trials. in this paper  we propose to improve the existing literature in several directions. first  we show that the sample standard deviation estimation in hozo et al. (2005) has some serious limitations and is always less satisfactory in practice. inspired by this  we propose a new estimation method by incorporating the sample size. second  we systematically study the sample mean and standard deviation estimation problem under more general settings where the first and third quartiles are also available for the trials. through simulation studies  we demonstrate that the proposed methods greatly improve the existing methods and enrich the literature. we conclude our work with a summary table that serves as a comprehensive guidance for performing meta-analysis in different situations.
1407,dna methylation age of human tissues and cell types,background it is not yet known whether dna methylation levels can be used to accurately predict age across a broad spectrum of human tissues and cell types  nor whether the resulting age prediction is a biologically meaningful measure. results i developed a multi-tissue predictor of age that allows one to estimate the dna methylation age of most tissues and cell types. the predictor  which is freely available  was developed using 8 000 samples from 82 illumina dna methylation array datasets  encompassing 51 healthy tissues and cell types. i found that dna methylation age has the following properties: first  it is close to zero for embryonic and induced pluripotent stem cells; second  it correlates with cell passage number; third  it gives rise to a highly heritable measure of age acceleration; and  fourth  it is applicable to chimpanzee tissues. analysis of 6 000 cancer samples from 32 datasets showed that all of the considered 20 cancer types exhibit significant age acceleration  with an average of 36 years. low age-acceleration of cancer tissue is associated with a high number of somatic mutations and tp53 mutations  while mutations in steroid receptors greatly accelerate dna methylation age in breast cancer. finally  i characterize the 353 cpg sites that together form an aging clock in terms of chromatin states and tissue variance. conclusions i propose that dna methylation age measures the cumulative effect of an epigenetic maintenance system. this novel epigenetic clock can be used to address a host of questions in developmental biology  cancer and aging research.
1409,key role of ubc5 and lysine-63 polyubiquitination in viral activation of irf3.,the mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein (mavs; also known as ips-1  visa  and cardif) is essential for innate immune response against rna viruses. mavs transduces signals from the cytosolic rig-i-like receptors  which bind to viral rnas. but how mavs activates downstream transcription factors such as irf3 to induce type-i interferons is not well understood. we have established a cell-free system in which mitochondria derived from virus-infected cells activate irf3 in the cytosol. fractionation of the cytosol led to the identification of ubc5 as a ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme (e2) required for irf3 activation. using an inducible rnai strategy  we demonstrate that catalytically active ubc5 is required for irf3 activation by viral infection. the activation of irf3 also requires two ubiquitin-binding domains of nemo. furthermore  we show that replacement of endogenous ubiquitin with its k63r mutant abolishes viral activation of irf3  demonstrating that k63 polyubiquitination plays a key role in irf3 activation.
1411,age-related behaviors have distinct transcriptional profiles in caenorhabditis elegans.,there has been a great deal of interest in identifying potential biomarkers of aging. biomarkers of aging would be useful to predict potential vulnerabilities in an individual that may arise well before they are chronologically expected  due to idiosyncratic aging rates that occur between individuals. prior attempts to identify biomarkers of aging have often relied on the comparisons of long-lived animals to a wild-type control. however  the effect of interventions in model systems that prolong lifespan (such as single gene mutations or caloric restriction) can sometimes be difficult to interpret due to the manipulation itself having multiple unforeseen consequences on physiology  unrelated to aging itself. the search for predictive biomarkers of aging therefore is problematic  and the identification of metrics that can be used to predict either physiological or chronological age would be of great value. one methodology that has been used to identify biomarkers for numerous pathologies is gene expression profiling. here  we report whole-genome expression profiles of individual wild-type caenorhabditis elegans covering the entire wild-type nematode lifespan. individual nematodes were scored for either age-related behavioral phenotypes  or survival  and then subsequently associated with their respective gene expression profiles. this facilitated the identification of transcriptional profiles that were highly associated with either physiological or chronological age. overall  our approach serves as a paradigm for identifying potential biomarkers of aging in higher organisms that can be repeatedly sampled throughout their lifespan.
1413,genetrack--a genomic data processing and visualization framework.,motivation high-throughput 'chip-chip' and 'chip-seq' methodologies generate sufficiently large data sets that analysis poses significant informatics challenges  particularly for research groups with modest computational support. to address this challenge  we devised a software platform for storing  analyzing and visualizing high resolution genome-wide binding data. genetrack automates several steps of a typical data processing pipeline  including smoothing and peak detection  and facilitates dissemination of the results via the web. our software is freely available via the google project hosting environment at http://genetrack.googlecode.com
1415,telomere-bound trf1 and trf2 stall the replication fork at telomeric repeats.,vertebrate telomeres consist of tandem repeats of t2ag3 and associated proteins including the telomeric dna-binding proteins  trf1 and trf2. it has been proposed that telomeres assume two interswitchable states  the open state that is accessible to various trans-acting factors and the closed state that excludes those factors. trf1 and trf2 are believed to promote the formation of the closed state. however  little is known about how those two states influence dna replication. we analyzed the effects of trf1 and trf2 on telomeric replication both in vitro and in vivo. by exploiting the in vitro replication system of linear sv40 dna  we found that telomeric repeats are a poor replication template. moreover  the addition of recombinant trf1 and trf2 significantly stalled the replication fork progression at telomeric repeats. when trf1 was overexpressed in hela cells  cells with 4n dna content were accumulated. furthermore  cytological analyses revealed that the replication focus overlapped with telomere signals at a significantly higher frequency in trf1-overexpressing cells than in control cells. the results suggest that trf1 and trf2 exert inhibitory effects on replication fork progression.
1417,lung cancer treatment waiting times and tumour growth.,we report a single-centre prospective audit of 29 lung cancer patients who were awaiting radical (potentially curative) radiotherapy. this was the total number assessed as suitable for radical treatment by one consultant during 1999. at the time of assessment they had been newly diagnosed and staged with a computed tomographic (ct) scan of chest. they had a subsequent ct scan prior to starting treatment for the purpose of planning the radiation fields. we have now measured tumour size on the diagnostic scans and compared this with the size on the planning scans. we have documented the delay between diagnostic and planning ct scanning and the total time between first hospital visit and starting treatment. two patients had progression of symptoms while on the waiting list  making them unfit for radical treatment  and another four had tumour progression on planning ct such that the tumour volume was too large for radical treatment. therefore  21% of potentially curable patients became incurable on the waiting list. the delay between diagnostic and planning ct scans ranged from 18 to 131 days (median 54)  with increases in the cross-sectional tumour size over that period ranging zero to 373%. the delay between the first hospital visit and starting treatment was 35-187 days (median 94); between the date of the radiotherapy request and the starting date for treatment it was 23-61 days (median 44). limited access to specialists is the reason most often advanced for the poor performance of the uk in treating lung cancer. this study demonstrates that  even for the select minority of patients who have specialist referral and are deemed suitable for potentially curative treatment  the outcome is prejudiced by waiting times that allow tumour progression.
1419,calicum microdomains form within neutrophils at the neutrophil–tumor cell synapse: role in antibody-dependent target cell apoptosis,ca2+ messages are broadly important in cellular signal transduction. in immune cells  ca2+ signaling is an essential step in many forms of activation. neutrophil-mediated antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (adcc) is one form of leukocyte activation that plays an important role in tumor cell killing in vitro and in patient care. using fluorescence methodologies  we found that neutrophils exhibit ca2+ signals during adcc directed against breast fibrosarcoma cells. importantly  these signals were localized to ca2+ microdomains at the neutrophil-to-tumor cell interface where they display dynamic features such as movement  fusion  and fission. these signals were blocked by the intracellular ca2+ buffer bapta. at the neutrophil–tumor cell synapse  the neutrophil’s cytoplasm was enriched in stim1  a crucial mediator of ca2+ signaling  whereas the ca2+-binding proteins calbindin and parvalbumin were not affected. our findings suggest that ca2+ microdomains are due to an active signaling process. as ca2+ signals within neutrophils were necessary for specific tumor cell apoptosis  a central role of microdomains in leukocyte-mediated tumor cell destruction is indicated.
1421,glucose deprivation-induced cytotoxicity and alterations in mitogen-activated protein kinase activation are mediated by oxidative stress in multidrug-resistant human breast carcinoma cells.,we previously observed that glucose deprivation induces cell death in multidrug-resistant human breast carcinoma cells (mcf-7/adr). as a follow up we wished to test the hypothesis that metabolic oxidative stress was the causative process or at least the link between causative processes behind the cytotoxicity. in the studies described here  we demonstrate that mitogen-activated protein kinase (mapk) was activated within 3 min of being in glucose-free medium and remained activated for 3 h. glucose deprivation for 2-4 h also caused oxidative stress as evidenced by a 3-fold greater steady state concentration of oxidized glutathione and a 3-fold increase in pro-oxidant production. glucose and glutamate treatment rapidly suppressed mapk activation and rescued cells from cytotoxicity. glutamate and the peroxide scavenger  pyruvate  rescued the cells from cell killing as well as suppressed pro-oxidant production. in addition the thiol antioxidant  n-acetyl-l-cysteine  rescued cells from glucose deprivation-induced cytotoxicity and suppressed mapk activation. these results suggest that glucose deprivation-induced cytotoxicity and alterations in mapk signal transduction are mediated by oxidative stress in mcf-7/adr. these results also support the speculation that a common mechanism of glucose deprivation-induced cytotoxicity in mammalian cells may involve metabolic oxidative stress.
1423,feedback circuit among ink4 tumor suppressors constrains human glioblastoma development,we have developed a nonheuristic genome topography scan (gts) algorithm to characterize the patterns of genomic alterations in human glioblastoma (gbm)  identifying frequent p18(ink4c) and p16(ink4a) codeletion. functional reconstitution of p18(ink4c) in gbm cells null for both p16(ink4a) and p18(ink4c) resulted in impaired cell-cycle progression and tumorigenic potential. conversely  rnai-mediated depletion of p18(ink4c) in p16(ink4a)-deficient primary astrocytes or established gbm cells enhanced tumorigenicity in vitro and in vivo. furthermore  acute suppression of p16(ink4a) in primary astrocytes induced a concomitant increase in p18(ink4c). together  these findings uncover a feedback regulatory circuit in the astrocytic lineage and demonstrate a bona fide tumor suppressor role for p18(ink4c) in human gbm wherein it functions cooperatively with other ink4 family members to constrain inappropriate proliferation.
1425,dynein pulls microtubules without rotating its stalk.,dynein is a microtubule motor that powers motility of cilia and flagella. there is evidence that the relative sliding of the doublet microtubules is due to a conformational change in the motor domain that moves a microtubule bound to the end of an extension known as the stalk. a predominant model for the movement involves a rotation of the head domain  with its stalk  toward the microtubule plus end. however  stalks bound to microtubules have been difficult to observe. here  we present the clearest views so far of stalks in action  by observing sea urchin  outer arm dynein molecules bound to microtubules  with a new method  "cryo-positive stain" electron microscopy. the dynein molecules in the complex were shown to be active in in vitro motility assays. analysis of the electron micrographs shows that the stalk angles relative to microtubules do not change significantly between the adp.vanadate and no-nucleotide states  but the heads  together with their stalks  shift with respect to their a-tubule attachments. our results disagree with models in which the stalk acts as a lever arm to amplify structural changes. the observed movement of the head and stalk relative to the tail indicates a new plausible mechanism  in which dynein uses its stalk as a grappling hook  catching a tubulin subunit 8 nm ahead and pulling on it by retracting a part of the tail (linker).
1427,vex1 controls the allelic exclusion required for antigenic variation in trypanosomes.,allelic exclusion underpins antigenic variation and immune evasion in african trypanosomes. these bloodstream parasites use rna polymerase-i (pol-i) to transcribe just one telomeric variant surface glycoprotein (vsg) gene at a time  producing superabundant and switchable vsg coats. we identified trypanosome vsg exclusion-1 (vex1) using a genetic screen for defects in telomere-exclusive expression. vex1 was sequestered by the active vsg and silencing of other vsgs failed when vex1 was either ectopically expressed or depleted  indicating positive and negative regulation  respectively. positive regulation affected vsgs and nontelomeric pol-i-transcribed genes  whereas negative regulation primarily affected vsgs. negative regulation by vex1 also affected telomeric pol-i-transcribed reporter constructs  but only when they contained blocks of sequence sharing homology with a pol-i-transcribed locus. we conclude that restricted positive regulation due to vex1 sequestration  combined with vex1-dependent  possibly homology-dependent silencing  drives a "winner-takes-all" mechanism of allelic exclusion.
1429,relationship of collegiate football experience and concussion with hippocampal volume and cognitive outcomes.,importance concussion and subconcussive impacts have been associated with short-term disrupted cognitive performance in collegiate athletes  but there are limited data on their long-term neuroanatomic and cognitive consequences. objective to assess the relationships of concussion history and years of football experience with hippocampal volume and cognitive performance in collegiate football athletes. design  setting  and participants cross-sectional study conducted between june 2011 and august 2013 at a us psychiatric research institute specializing in neuroimaging among collegiate football players with a history of clinician-diagnosed concussion (n = 25)  collegiate football players without a history of concussion (n = 25)  and non-football-playing  age-  sex-  and education-matched healthy controls (n = 25). exposures history of clinician-diagnosed concussion and years of football experience. main outcomes and measures high-resolution anatomical magnetic resonance imaging was used to quantify brain volumes. baseline scores on a computerized concussion-related cognitive battery were used for cognitive assessment in athletes. results players with and without a history of concussion had smaller hippocampal volumes relative to healthy control participants (with concussion: t48 = 7.58; p < .001; mean difference  1788 μl; 95% ci  1317-2258 μl; without concussion: t48 = 4.35; p < .001  mean difference  1027 μl; 95% ci  556-1498 μl). players with a history of concussion had smaller hippocampal volumes than players without concussion (t48 = 3.15; p < .001; mean difference  761 μl; 95% ci  280-1242 μl). in both athlete groups  there was a statistically significant inverse relationship between left hippocampal volume and number of years of football played (t46 = -3.62; p < .001; coefficient = -43.54; 95% ci  -67.66 to -19.41). behavioral testing demonstrated no differences between athletes with and without a concussion history on 5 cognitive measures but did show an inverse correlation between years of playing football and reaction time (ρ42 = -0.43; 95% ci  -0.46 to -0.40; p = .005). conclusions and relevance among a group of collegiate football athletes  there was a significant inverse relationship of concussion and years of football played with hippocampal volume. years of football experience also correlated with slower reaction time. further research is needed to determine the temporal relationships of these findings.
1431,global assessment of genomic regions required for growth in mycobacterium tuberculosis,identifying genomic elements required for viability is central to our understanding of the basic physiology of bacterial pathogens. recently  the combination of high-density mutagenesis and deep sequencing has allowed for the identification of required and conditionally required genes in many bacteria. genes  however  make up only a part of the complex genomes of important bacterial pathogens. here  we use an unbiased analysis to comprehensively identify genomic regions  including genes  domains  and intergenic elements  required for the optimal growth of mycobacterium tuberculosis  a major global health pathogen. we found that several proteins jointly contain both domains required for optimal growth and domains that are dispensable. in addition  many non-coding regions  including regulatory elements and non-coding rnas  are critical for mycobacterial growth. our analysis shows that the genetic requirements for growth are more complex than can be appreciated using gene-centric analysis.
1433,anti-alphav integrin monoclonal antibody intetumumab enhances the efficacy of radiation therapy and reduces metastasis of human cancer xenografts in nude rats.,we previously reported that intetumumab (cnto 95)  a fully human anti-αv integrin monoclonal antibody  is a radiosensitizer in mice with xenograft tumors. because intetumumab does not cross-react with mouse integrins  but has cross-reactivity with rat integrins  we next studied the potential combined use of radiation therapy and intetumumab in human cancer xenograft models in nude rats to assess effects on both tumor cells and the tumor microenvironment. nude rats bearing human head and neck cancer and non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) xenografts were treated with intetumumab and fractionated local tumor radiotherapy. effects on tumor growth and metastasis  blood perfusion  oxygenation  and gastrointestinal toxicity were studied. intetumumab alone had a moderate effect on tumor growth. when combined with fractionated radiation therapy  intetumumab significantly inhibited tumor growth and produced a tumor response rate that was significantly better than with radiation therapy alone. treatment with intetumumab also significantly reduced lung metastasis in the a549 nsclc xenograft model. the oxygenation and blood perfusion in xenograft tumors measured by microbubble-enhanced ultrasound imaging were substantially increased after treatment with intetumumab. the combined use of intetumumab and radiation therapy reduced the microvessel density and increased apoptosis in tumor cells and the tumor microenvironment. toxicity studies showed that treatment with intetumumab did not cause the histopathologic changes in the lungs and did not sensitize the sensitive gastrointestinal epithelium to the effect of radiation therapy. intetumumab can potentiate the efficacy of fractionated radiation therapy in human cancer xenograft tumors in nude rats without increased toxicity.
1435,synaptic determinants of rett syndrome,there is mounting evidence showing that the structural and molecular organization of synaptic connections is affected both in human patients and in animal models of neurological and psychiatric diseases. as a consequence of these experimental observations  it has been introduced the concept of synapsopathies  a notion describing brain disorders of synaptic function and plasticity. a close correlation between neurological diseases and synaptic abnormalities is especially relevant for those syndromes including also mental retardation in their symptomatology  such as rett syndrome (rs). rs (mim312750) is an x-linked dominant neurological disorder that is caused in the majority of cases by mutations in methyl-cpg-binding protein 2 (mecp2). this review will focus on the current knowledge of the synaptic alterations produced by mutations of the gene mecp2 in mouse models of rs and will highlight prospects experimental therapies currently in use. different experimental approaches have revealed that rs could be the consequence of an impairment in the homeostasis of synaptic transmission in specific brain regions. indeed  several forms of experience-induced neuronal plasticity are impaired in the absence of mecp2. based on the results presented in this review  it is reasonable to propose that understanding how the brain is affected by diseases such as rs is at reach. this effort will bring us closer to identify the neurobiological bases of human cognition.
1437,foxk proteins repress the initiation of starvation-induced atrophy and autophagy programs,autophagy is the primary catabolic process triggered in response to starvation. although autophagic regulation within the cytosolic compartment is well established  it is becoming clear that nuclear events also regulate the induction or repression of autophagy. nevertheless  a thorough understanding of the mechanisms by which sequence-specific transcription factors modulate expression of genes required for autophagy is lacking. here  we identify foxk proteins (foxk1 and foxk2) as transcriptional repressors of autophagy in muscle cells and fibroblasts. interestingly  foxk1/2 serve to counter-balance another forkhead transcription factor  foxo3  which induces an overlapping set of autophagic and atrophic targets in muscle. foxk1/2 specifically recruits sin3a-hdac complexes to restrict acetylation of histone h4 and expression of critical autophagy genes. remarkably  mtor promotes the transcriptional activity of foxk1 by facilitating nuclear entry to specifically limit basal levels of autophagy in nutrient-rich conditions. our study highlights an ancient  conserved mechanism whereby nutritional status is interpreted by mtor to restrict autophagy by repressing essential autophagy genes through foxk-sin3-mediated transcriptional control.
1439,kinetic analysis reveals the fate of a microrna following target regulation in mammalian cells,considerable details about microrna (mirna) biogenesis and regulation have been uncovered  but little is known about the fate of the mirna subsequent to target regulation. to gain insight into this process  we carried out kinetic analysis of a mirna's turnover following termination of its biogenesis and during regulation of a target that is not subject to ago2-mediated catalytic cleavage. by quantitating the number of molecules of the mirna and its target in steady state and in the course of its decay  we found that each mirna molecule was able to regulate at least two target transcripts  providing in vivo evidence that the mirna is not irreversibly sequestered with its target and that the nonslicing pathway of mirna regulation is multiple-turnover. using deep sequencing  we further show that mirna recycling is limited by target regulation  which promotes posttranscriptional modifications to the 3' end of the mirna and accelerates the mirna's rate of decay. these studies provide new insight into the efficiency of mirna regulation that help to explain how a mirna can regulate a vast number of transcripts and that identify one of the mechanisms that impart specificity to mirna decay in mammalian cells.
1441,predictive value of bone resorption and formation markers in cancer patients with bone metastases receiving the bisphosphonate zoledronic acid.,purpose three large  randomized trials of patients with bone metastases recently demonstrated that zoledronic acid reduces the risk of skeletal-related events. these trials provide an opportunity for investigating the correlation between bone metabolism and clinical outcome during bisphosphonate therapy. patients and methods urinary measurements of n-telopeptide (ntx) and serum bone alkaline phosphatase (bap) were obtained in 1 824 bisphosphonate-treated patients-1 462 with zoledronic acid (breast  490; prostate  411; myeloma  210; non-small-cell lung  183; other  168) and 362 with pamidronate (breast  254; myeloma  108). this exploratory cohort analysis grouped patients by baseline and most recent levels of ntx as low (< 50 nmol/mmol creatinine)  moderate (50 to 99 nmol/mmol creatinine)  or high (> or = 100 nmol/mmol creatinine)  and bap as low (< 146 u/l) or high (> or = 146 u/l). the relative risks for negative clinical outcomes were estimated for each group using multiple-event and cox regression models with time-varying covariates. results patients with high and moderate ntx levels had 2-fold increases in their risk of skeletal complications and disease progression compared with patients with low ntx levels (p < .001 for all). high ntx levels in each solid tumor category were associated with a 4- to 6-fold increased risk of death on study  and moderate ntx levels a 2- to 4-fold increased risk compared with low ntx levels (p < .001 for all). bone alkaline phosphatase also showed some correlation with risk of negative clinical outcomes. conclusion the bone resorption marker ntx provides valuable prognostic information in patients with bone metastases receiving bisphosphonates.
1443,systematic reviews from astronomy to zoology: myths and misconceptions.,systematic literature reviews are widely used as an aid to evidence based decision making. for example  reviews of randomised controlled trials are regularly used to answer questions about the effectiveness of healthcare interventions. the high profile of systematic reviews as a cornerstone of evidence based medicine  however  has led to several misconceptions about their purpose and methods. among these is the belief that systematic reviews are applicable only to randomised controlled trials and that they are incapable of dealing with other forms of evidence  such as from non-randomised studies or qualitative research. the systematic literature review is a method of locating  appraising  and synthesising evidence. the value of regularly updated systematic reviews in the assessment of effectiveness of healthcare interventions was dramatically illustrated by antman and colleagues  who showed that review articles failed to mention advances in treatment identified by an updated systematic review.1  it is nearly a quarter of a century since gene glass coined the term “meta-analysis” to refer to the quantitative synthesis of the results of primary studies.2 the importance of making explicit efforts to limit bias in the review of literature  however  has been emphasised by social scientists at least since the 1960s.3 in recent years systematic reviews have found an important role in health services research  and the growing interest in evidence based approaches to decision making makes it likely that their use will increase. not everybody accepts that systematic reviews are necessary or desirable  and as one moves further away from the clinical applications of systematic reviews cynicism about their utility grows. several arguments are commonly used to reject a wider role for systematic reviews  and these arguments are often based on major misconceptions about the history  purpose  methods  and uses of systematic reviews. i have examined eight common myths about …
1445,specific and cooperative binding of e. coli single-stranded dna binding protein to mrna.,fluorometric titration of e. coli single-stranded dna binding protein with various rnas showed that the protein specifically and cooperatively binds to its own mrna. the binding inhibited in vitro expression of ssb and bla but not nusa. this inhibition takes place at a physiological concentration of ssb. the function of the protein in gene regulation is discussed.
1447,risk of malignant neoplasms in patients with pulmonary sarcoidosis.,background for over 20 years the association between sarcoidosis and malignancy  particularly lymphoma and lung cancer  has been disputed with misclassification being the major concern. the aim of the present study was to analyse the incidence of malignancies in a cohort of patients with sarcoidosis by linkage to a nationwide population based cancer register. methods the cohort comprised 254 patients followed for a median of 25 years until death  emigration  or 31 december 1992  whichever came first. the expected number of cancer cases was calculated using the annual age and sex specific cancer rates from the danish cancer registry. results thirty six cancers were registered  three of which were misclassified as sarcoidosis  leaving 33 cancers compared with 23 expected (standardised incidence ratio (sir) = 1.4; 95% ci 0.99 to 2.0). five lung cancers were observed compared with 2.5 expected  yielding an sir of 2.0 (95% ci 0.7 to 4.7). there was no incidence of lymphoma and only one case of leukaemia. there was a significant excess number of pharyngeal cancers based on two cases (sir = 15.4; 95% ci 1.7 to 56). conclusions this study does not support the theory of an association between sarcoidosis and malignancy  and the main reason other studies have shown such an association is most likely to have been due to selection bias and misclassification.
1449,a microtubule interactome: complexes with roles in cell cycle and mitosis,the microtubule (mt) cytoskeleton is required for many aspects of cell function  including the transport of intracellular materials  the maintenance of cell polarity  and the regulation of mitosis. these functions are coordinated by mt-associated proteins (maps)  which work in concert with each other  binding mts and altering their properties. we have used a mt cosedimentation assay  combined with 1d and 2d page and mass spectrometry  to identify over 250 maps from early drosophila embryos. we have taken two complementary approaches to analyse the cellular function of novel maps isolated using this approach. first  we have carried out an rna interference (rnai) screen  identifying 21 previously uncharacterised genes involved in mt organisation. second  we have undertaken a bioinformatics analysis based on binary protein interaction data to produce putative interaction networks of maps. by combining both approaches  we have identified and validated map complexes with potentially important roles in cell cycle regulation and mitosis. this study therefore demonstrates that biologically relevant data can be harvested using such a multidisciplinary approach  and identifies new maps  many of which appear to be important in cell division.
1451,brief communication repeated cocaine administration increases voltage-sensitive calcium currents in response to membrane depolarization in medial prefrontal cortex pyramidal neurons,the medial prefrontal cortex (mpfc) plays a critical role in cocaine addiction. however  evidence to elucidate how the mpfc is functionally involved in cocaine addiction remains incomplete. recent studies have revealed that repeated cocaine administration induces various neuroadaptations in pyramidal mpfc neurons  including a reduction in voltage-gated k+ currents (vgkcs) and a possible increase in voltage-sensitive ca2+ currents (i(ca)). here  we performed both current-clamp recordings in brain slices and voltage-clamp recordings in freshly dissociated cells to determine whether i(ca) is altered in mpfc pyramidal neurons after chronic cocaine treatment with a short-term or long-term withdrawal. in addition  a critical role of vgkcs in regulating the generation of ca2+ plateau potential was also studied in mpfc neurons. repeated cocaine administration significantly prolonged the duration of evoked ca2+ plateau potentials and increased the whole-cell i(ca) in mpfc neurons after a 3 d withdrawal. selective blockade of l-type ca2+ channels by nifedipine not only significantly increased the threshold but also reduced the duration and amplitude of ca2+ plateau potentials in both saline- and cocaine-withdrawn mpfc neurons. however  there was no significant difference in the increased threshold  reduced duration  and decreased amplitude of ca2+ potentials between saline- and cocaine-withdrawn neurons after blockade of l-type ca2+ channels. moreover  an increase in amplitude was also observed  whereas the prolonged duration persisted  in ca2+ potentials after 2-3 weeks of withdrawal. these findings indicate that chronic exposure to cocaine facilitates the responsiveness of i(ca)  particularly via the activated l-type ca2+ channels  to excitatory stimuli in rat mpfc pyramidal neurons.
1453,quantifying transmission investment in malaria parasites,many microparasites infect new hosts with specialized life stages  requiring a subset of the parasite population to forgo proliferation and develop into transmission forms. transmission stage production influences infectivity  host exploitation  and the impact of medical interventions like drug treatment. predicting how parasites will respond to public health efforts on both epidemiological and evolutionary timescales requires understanding transmission strategies. these strategies can rarely be observed directly and must typically be inferred from infection dynamics. using malaria as a case study  we test previously described methods for inferring transmission stage investment against simulated data generated with a model of within-host infection dynamics  where the true transmission investment is known. we show that existing methods are inadequate and potentially very misleading. the key difficulty lies in separating transmission stages produced by different generations of parasites. we develop a new approach that performs much better on simulated data. applying this approach to real data from mice infected with a single plasmodium chabaudi strain  we estimate that transmission investment varies from zero to 20%  with evidence for variable investment over time in some hosts  but not others. these patterns suggest that  even in experimental infections where host genetics and other environmental factors are controlled  parasites may exhibit remarkably different patterns of transmission investment.
1455,effects of repeated social stress on leukocyte distribution in bone marrow  peripheral blood and spleen,leukocyte trafficking between the various body compartments has an important surveillance function that ensures the detection of antigen and enables the immune system to initiate a rapid and effective response. repeated social defeat of group-housed male mice induced by daily  acute encounters with an aggressive conspecific substantially altered leukocyte trafficking and led to a gradual redistribution of immune cells in bone marrow  peripheral blood and spleen. recurrent exposure to the stressor over a period of 2  4 or 6 consecutive days was associated with cell mobilization and increased myelopoiesis in the bone marrow that was paralleled by an accumulation of neutrophils and monocytes in circulation and spleen. substantial depletion of b cells in bone marrow and blood was associated with an increase in splenic b cells indicating a redirection of this cell type to the spleen. in contrast  t cells were markedly reduced in these immune compartments. the recruitment of cd11b+ leukocytes (i.e.  monocytes/macrophages and neutrophils) from the bone marrow to the spleen might play a critical role in the development of functional glucocorticoid resistance in the murine spleen that was reported in context with repeated social defeat.
1457,global reorganization of replication domains during embryonic stem cell differentiation,dna replication in mammals is regulated via the coordinate firing of clusters of replicons that duplicate megabase-sized chromosome segments at specific times during s-phase. cytogenetic studies show that these "replicon clusters" coalesce as subchromosomal units that persist through multiple cell generations  but the molecular boundaries of such units have remained elusive. moreover  the extent to which changes in replication timing occur during differentiation and their relationship to transcription changes has not been rigorously investigated. we have constructed high-resolution replication-timing profiles in mouse embryonic stem cells (mescs) before and after differentiation to neural precursor cells. we demonstrate that chromosomes can be segmented into multimegabase domains of coordinate replication  which we call "replication domains " separated by transition regions whose replication kinetics are consistent with large originless segments. the molecular boundaries of replication domains are remarkably well conserved between distantly related esc lines and induced pluripotent stem cells. unexpectedly  esc differentiation was accompanied by the consolidation of smaller differentially replicating domains into larger coordinately replicated units whose replication time was more aligned to isochore gc content and the density of line-1 transposable elements  but not gene density. replication-timing changes were coordinated with transcription changes for weak promoters more than strong promoters  and were accompanied by rearrangements in subnuclear position. we conclude that replication profiles are cell-type specific  and changes in these profiles reveal chromosome segments that undergo large changes in organization during differentiation. moreover  smaller replication domains and a higher density of timing transition regions that interrupt isochore replication timing define a novel characteristic of the pluripotent state.
1459,butyrate greatly enhances derivation of human induced pluripotent stem cells by promoting epigenetic remodeling and the expression of pluripotency-associated genes.,we report here that butyrate  a naturally occurring fatty acid commonly used as a nutritional supplement and differentiation agent  greatly enhances the efficiency of induced pluripotent stem (ips) cell derivation from human adult or fetal fibroblasts. after transient butyrate treatment  the ips cell derivation efficiency is enhanced by 15- to 51-fold using either retroviral or piggybac transposon vectors expressing 4 to 5 reprogramming genes. butyrate stimulation is more remarkable (>100- to 200-fold) on reprogramming in the absence of either klf4 or myc transgene. butyrate treatment did not negatively affect properties of ips cell lines established by either 3 or 4 retroviral vectors or a single piggybac dna transposon vector. these characterized ips cell lines  including those derived from an adult patient with sickle cell disease by either the piggybac or retroviral vectors  show normal karyotypes and pluripotency. to gain insights into the underlying mechanisms of butyrate stimulation  we conducted genome-wide gene expression and promoter dna methylation microarrays and other epigenetic analyses on established ips cells and cells from intermediate stages of the reprogramming process. by days 6 to 12 during reprogramming  butyrate treatment enhanced histone h3 acetylation  promoter dna demethylation  and the expression of endogenous pluripotency-associated genes  including dppa2  whose overexpression partially substitutes for butyrate stimulation. thus  butyrate as a cell permeable small molecule provides a simple tool to further investigate molecular mechanisms of cellular reprogramming. moreover  butyrate stimulation provides an efficient method for reprogramming various human adult somatic cells  including cells from patients that are more refractory to reprogramming.
1461,induction of pluripotent stem cells by defined factors is greatly improved by small-molecule compounds,reprogramming of mouse and human somatic cells can be achieved by ectopic expression of transcription factors  but with low efficiencies. we report that dna methyltransferase and histone deacetylase (hdac) inhibitors improve reprogramming efficiency. in particular  valproic acid (vpa)  an hdac inhibitor  improves reprogramming efficiency by more than 100-fold  using oct4-gfp as a reporter. vpa also enables efficient induction of pluripotent stem cells without introduction of the oncogene c-myc.
1463,bioinformatics applications note,summary made4  microarray ade4  is a software package that facilitates multivariate analysis of microarray gene-expression data. made4 accepts a wide variety of gene-expression data formats. made4 takes advantage of the extensive multivariate statistical and graphical functions in the r package ade4  extending these for application to microarray data. in addition  made4 provides new graphical and visualization tools that aid in interpretation of multivariate analysis of microarray data.
1465,ras genes in saccharomyces cerevisiae: signal transduction in search of a pathway.,ras proteins in budding yeasts initially appeared to regulate initiation of the cell cycle in response to nutrient availability. more recent work  while clarifying the mechanism of ras-mediated signal transduction  has undermined our notion of the signal ras transmits. we now suspect that ras helps to coordinate cellular metabolism and mass accumulation  but what ras responds to is not clear.
1467,locations of cerebral infarctions in tuberculous meningitis,the locations of cerebral infarctions were studied in 14 patients with tuberculous meningitis (tbm) and 173 patients with noninflammatory ischemic stroke (is). in patients with tbm  75% of infarctions occurred in the “tb zone” supplied by medial striate and thalamoperforating arteries; only 11% occurred in the “is zone” supplied by lateral striate  anterior choroidal and thalamogeniculate arteries. in patients with is 29% of infarctions occurred in the is zone  29% in the subcortical white matter  and 24% in (or involving) the cerebral cortex. only 11% occurred in the tb zone. bilaterally symmetrical infarctions of the tb zone were common with tmb (71%) but rare with is (5%).
1469,the development of autoimmune myocarditis in mice by an,background interleukin (il)-12 exerts a potent proinflammatory effect by stimulating t-helper (th) 1 responses. this effect is believed to be mediated primarily through the activation of stat4 and subsequent production of interferon (ifn)-gamma. methods and results- we examined the role of il-12 receptor (il-12r) signaling in the development of murine experimental autoimmune myocarditis (eam) induced by cardiac myosin immunization. both il-12rbeta1-deficient mice and stat4-deficient mice were resistant to the induction of myocarditis. treatment with exogenous il-12 exacerbated disease. we questioned whether ifn-gamma is required for the disease-promoting activity of il-12. on the contrary  we found that ifn-gamma suppresses eam. lack of ifn-gamma due to either depletion with an antibody or a genetic deficiency exacerbated myocarditis. spleens from ifn-gamma-deficient mice immunized with cardiac myosin showed increased cellularity; greater numbers of cd3+  cd4+  cd8+  and il-2-producing cells; and heightened ability to produce cytokines on stimulation in vitro. treatment of mice with recombinant ifn-gamma suppressed the development of myocarditis. conclusions il-12/il-12r/stat4 signaling promotes the development of eam. in contrast  ifn-gamma plays a protective role. the disease-limiting effects of ifn-gamma might be explained by its ability to control the expansion of activated t lymphocytes.
1471,mitochondrial dysfunction leads to nuclear genome instability via an iron-sulfur cluster defect,mutations and deletions in the mitochondrial genome (mtdna)  as well as instability of the nuclear genome  are involved in multiple human diseases. here  we report that in saccharomyces cerevisiae  loss of mtdna leads to nuclear genome instability  through a process of cell-cycle arrest and selection we define as a cellular crisis. this crisis is not mediated by the absence of respiration  but instead correlates with a reduction in the mitochondrial membrane potential. analysis of cells undergoing this crisis identified a defect in iron-sulfur cluster (isc) biogenesis  which requires normal mitochondrial function. we found that downregulation of nonmitochondrial isc protein biogenesis was sufficient to cause increased genomic instability in cells with intact mitochondrial function. these results suggest mitochondrial dysfunction stimulates nuclear genome instability by inhibiting the production of isc-containing protein(s)  which are required for maintenance of nuclear genome integrity. for a video summary of this article  see the paperflick file available with the online supplemental data.
1473,regulation of chromatin by histone modifications,chromatin is not an inert structure  but rather an instructive dna scaffold that can respond to external cues to regulate the many uses of dna. a principle component of chromatin that plays a key role in this regulation is the modification of histones. there is an ever-growing list of these modifications and the complexity of their action is only just beginning to be understood. however  it is clear that histone modifications play fundamental roles in most biological processes that are involved in the manipulation and expression of dna. here  we describe the known histone modifications  define where they are found genomically and discuss some of their functional consequences  concentrating mostly on transcription where the majority of characterisation has taken place.
1475,scaffold-based three-dimensional human fibroblast culture provides a structural matrix that supports angiogenesis in infarcted heart tissue.,background we have developed techniques to implant angiogenic patches onto the epicardium over regions of infarcted cardiac tissue to stimulate revascularization of the damaged tissue. these experiments used a scaffold-based 3d human dermal fibroblast culture (3dfc) as an epicardial patch. the 3dfc contains viable cells that secrete angiogenic growth factors and has previously been shown to stimulate angiogenic activity. the hypothesis tested was that a viable 3dfc cardiac patch would stimulate an angiogenic response within an area of infarcted cardiac tissue. methods and results a coronary occlusion of a branch of the left anterior descending coronary artery was performed by thermal ligation in severe combined immunodeficient mice. 3dfcs with or without viable cells were sized to the damaged area  implanted in replicate mice onto the epicardium at the site of tissue injury  and compared with animals that received infarct surgery but no implant. fourteen and 30 days after surgery  hearts were exposed and photographed  and tissue samples were prepared for histology and cytochemistry. fourteen and 30 days after surgery  the damaged myocardium receiving viable 3dfc exhibited a significantly greater angiogenic response (including arterioles  venules  and capillaries) than nonviable and untreated control groups. conclusions in this animal model  viable 3dfc stimulates angiogenesis within a region of cardiac infarction and can augment a repair response in damaged tissue. therefore  a potential use for 3dfc is the repair of myocardial tissue damaged by infarction.
1477,global prevalence of glaucoma and projections of glaucoma burden through 2040: a systematic review and meta-analysis.,purpose glaucoma is the leading cause of global irreversible blindness. present estimates of global glaucoma prevalence are not up-to-date and focused mainly on european ancestry populations. we systematically examined the global prevalence of primary open-angle glaucoma (poag) and primary angle-closure glaucoma (pacg)  and projected the number of affected people in 2020 and 2040. design systematic review and meta-analysis. participants data from 50 population-based studies (3770 poag cases among 140 496 examined individuals and 786 pacg cases among 112 398 examined individuals). methods we searched pubmed  medline  and web of science for population-based studies of glaucoma prevalence published up to march 25  2013. hierarchical bayesian approach was used to estimate the pooled glaucoma prevalence of the population aged 40-80 years along with 95% credible intervals (cris). projections of glaucoma were estimated based on the united nations world population prospects. bayesian meta-regression models were performed to assess the association between the prevalence of poag and the relevant factors. main outcome measures prevalence and projection numbers of glaucoma cases. results the global prevalence of glaucoma for population aged 40-80 years is 3.54% (95% cri  2.09-5.82). the prevalence of poag is highest in africa (4.20%; 95% cri  2.08-7.35)  and the prevalence of pacg is highest in asia (1.09%; 95% cri  0.43-2.32). in 2013  the number of people (aged 40-80 years) with glaucoma worldwide was estimated to be 64.3 million  increasing to 76.0 million in 2020 and 111.8 million in 2040. in the bayesian meta-regression model  men were more likely to have poag than women (odds ratio [or]  1.36; 95% cri  1.23-1.52)  and after adjusting for age  gender  habitation type  response rate  and year of study  people of african ancestry were more likely to have poag than people of european ancestry (or  2.80; 95% cri  1.83-4.06)  and people living in urban areas were more likely to have poag than those in rural areas (or  1.58; 95% cri  1.19-2.04). conclusions the number of people with glaucoma worldwide will increase to 111.8 million in 2040  disproportionally affecting people residing in asia and africa. these estimates are important in guiding the designs of glaucoma screening  treatment  and related public health strategies.
1479,interaction of streptavidin-based peptide-mhc oligomers (tetramers) with cell-surface tcrs.,the binding of oligomeric peptide-mhc (pmhc) complexes to cell surface tcr can be considered to approximate tcr-pmhc interactions at cell-cell interfaces. in this study  we analyzed the equilibrium binding of streptavidin-based pmhc oligomers (tetramers) and their dissociation kinetics from cd8(pos) t cells from 2c-tcr transgenic mice and from t cell hybridomas that expressed the 2c tcr or a high-affinity mutant (m33) of this tcr. our results show that the tetramers did not come close to saturating cell-surface tcr (binding only 10-30% of cell-surface receptors)  as is generally assumed in deriving affinity values (k(d))  in part because of dissociative losses from tetramer-stained cells. guided by a kinetic model  the oligomer dissociation rate and equilibrium constants were seen to depend not only on monovalent association and dissociation rates (k(off) and k(on))  but also on a multivalent association rate (μ) and tcr cell-surface density. our results suggest that dissociation rates could account for the recently described surprisingly high frequency of tetramer-negative  functionally competent t cells in some t cell responses.
1481,adult mammalian neural stem cells and neurogenesis: five decades later.,adult somatic stem cells in various organs maintain homeostatic tissue regeneration and enhance plasticity. since its initial discovery five decades ago  investigations of adult neurogenesis and neural stem cells have led to an established and expanding field that has significantly influenced many facets of neuroscience  developmental biology  and regenerative medicine. here we review recent progress and focus on questions related to adult mammalian neural stem cells that also apply to other somatic stem cells. we further discuss emerging topics that are guiding the field toward better understanding adult neural stem cells and ultimately applying these principles to improve human health.
1483,the frequency and immunodominance of islet-specific cd8+ t-cell responses change after type 1 diabetes diagnosis and treatment.,objective islet-reactive cd8(+) t-cells play a key role in the pathogenesis of type 1 diabetes in the nod mouse. the predominant t-cell specificities change over time  but whether similar shifts also occur after clinical diagnosis and insulin treatment in type 1 diabetic patients is unknown. research design and methods we took advantage of a recently validated islet-specific cd8(+) t-cell gamma-interferon enzyme-linked immunospot (isl8spot) assay to follow responses against preproinsulin (ppi)  gad  insulinoma-associated protein 2 (ia-2)  and islet-specific glucose-6-phosphatase catalytic subunit-related protein (igrp) epitopes in 15 hla-a2(+) adult type 1 diabetic patients close to diagnosis and at a second time point 7-16 months later. results cd8(+) t-cell reactivities were less frequent at follow-up  as 28.6% of responses tested positive at type 1 diabetes diagnosis vs. 13.2% after a median of 11 months (p = 0.003). while gad and ia-2 autoantibody (aab) titers were unchanged in 75% of cases  the fraction of patients responding to ppi and/or gad epitopes by isl8spot decreased from 60-67 to 20% (p < 0.02). the previously subdominant ia-2(206-214) and igrp(265-273) peptides were newly targeted  thus becoming the immunodominant epitopes. conclusions shifts both in frequency and in immunodominance of cd8(+) t-cell responses occur more rapidly than do changes in aab titers. these different kinetics may suggest complementary clinical applications for t-cell and aab measurements.
1485,binding of the winged-helix transcription factor hnf3 to a linker histone site on the nucleosome.,the transcription factor hnf3 and linker histones h1 and h5 possess winged-helix dna-binding domains  yet hnf3 and other fork head-related proteins activate genes during development whereas linker histones compact dna in chromatin and repress gene expression. we compared how the two classes of factors interact with chromatin templates and found that hnf3 binds dna at the side of nucleosome cores  similarly to what has been reported for linker histone. a nucleosome structural binding site for hnf3 is occupied at the albumin transcriptional enhancer in active and potentially active chromatin  but not in inactive chromatin in vivo. while wild-type hnf3 protein does not compact dna extending from the nucleosome  as does linker histone  site-directed mutants of hnf3 can compact nucleosomal dna if they contain basic amino acids at positions previously shown to be essential for nucleosomal dna compaction by linker histones. the results illustrate how transcription factors can possess special nucleosome-binding activities that are not predicted from studies of factor interactions with free dna.
1487,detection of an autoreactive t-cell population within the polyclonal repertoire that undergoes distinct autoimmune regulator (aire)-mediated selection.,the autoimmune regulator (aire) plays a critical role in central tolerance by promoting the display of tissue-specific antigens in the thymus. to study the influence of aire on thymic selection in a physiological setting  we used tetramer reagents to detect autoreactive t cells specific for the aire-dependent tissue-specific antigen interphotoreceptor retinoid-binding protein (irbp)  in the polyclonal repertoire. two class ii tetramer reagents were designed to identify t cells specific for two different peptide epitopes of irbp. analyses of the polyclonal t-cell repertoire showed a high frequency of activated t cells specific for both irbp tetramers in aire(-/-) mice  but not in aire(+/+) mice. surprisingly  although one tetramer-binding t-cell population was efficiently deleted in the thymus in an aire-dependent manner  the second tetramer-binding population was not deleted and could be detected in both the aire(-/-) and aire(+/+) t-cell repertoires. we found that aire-dependent thymic deletion of irbp-specific t cells relies on intercellular transfer of irbp between thymic stroma and bone marrow-derived antigen-presenting cells. furthermore  our data suggest that aire-mediated deletion relies not only on thymic expression of irbp  but also on proper antigen processing and presentation of irbp by thymic antigen-presenting cells.
1489,myelodysplasia and leukemia of fanconi anemia are associated with a specific pattern of genomic abnormalities that includes cryptic runx1/aml1 lesions.,fanconi anemia (fa) is a genetic condition associated with bone marrow (bm) failure  myelodysplasia (mds)  and acute myeloid leukemia (aml). we studied 57 fa patients with hypoplastic or aplastic anemia (n = 20)  mds (n = 18)  aml (n = 11)  or no bm abnormality (n = 8). bm samples were analyzed by karyotype  high-density dna arrays with respect to paired fibroblasts  and by selected oncogene sequencing. a specific pattern of chromosomal abnormalities was found in mds/aml  which included 1q+ (44.8%)  3q+ (41.4%)  -7/7q (17.2%)  and 11q- (13.8%). moreover  cryptic runx1/aml1 lesions (translocations  deletions  or mutations) were observed for the first time in fa (20.7%). rare mutations of nras  flt3-itd  mll-ptd  erg amplification  and zfp36l2-prdm16 translocation  but no tp53  tet2  cbl  npm1  and cebpα mutations were found. frequent homozygosity regions were related not to somatic copy-neutral loss of heterozygosity but to consanguinity  suggesting that homologous recombination is not a common progression mechanism in fa. importantly  the runx1 and other chromosomal/genomic lesions were found at the mds/aml stages  except for 1q+  which was found at all stages. these data have implications for staging and therapeutic managing in fa patients  and also to analyze the mechanisms of clonal evolution and oncogenesis in a background of genomic instability and bm failure.
1491,an analysis of the caenorhabditis elegans lipid raft proteome using gelc-ms/ms.,lipid rafts are microdomains of the phospholipid bilayer  proposed to form semi-stable "islands" that act as a platform for several important cellular processes; major classes of raft-resident proteins include signalling proteins and glycosylphosphatidylinositol (gpi)-anchored proteins. proteomic studies into lipid rafts have been mainly carried out in mammalian cell lines and single cell organisms. the nematode caenorhabditis elegans  the model organism with a well-defined developmental profile  is ideally suited for the study of this subcellular locale in a complex developmental context. a study of the lipid raft proteome of c. elegans is presented here. a total of 44 proteins were identified from the lipid raft fraction using gelc-ms/ms  of which 40 have been determined to be likely raft proteins after analysis of predicted functions. prediction of gpi-anchoring of the proteins found 21 to be potentially modified in this way  two of which were experimentally confirmed to be gpi-anchored. this work is the first reported study of the lipid raft proteome in c. elegans. the results show that raft proteins  including numerous gpi-anchored proteins  may have a variety of potentially important roles within the nematode  and will hopefully lead to c. elegans becoming a useful model for the study of lipid rafts.
1493,the right place at the right time: chaperoning core histone variants.,histone proteins dynamically regulate chromatin structure and epigenetic signaling to maintain cell homeostasis. these processes require controlled spatial and temporal deposition and eviction of histones by their dedicated chaperones. with the evolution of histone variants  a network of functionally specific histone chaperones has emerged. molecular details of the determinants of chaperone specificity for different histone variants are only slowly being resolved. a complete understanding of these processes is essential to shed light on the genuine biological roles of histone variants  their chaperones  and their impact on chromatin dynamics.
1495,elimination of paternal mitochondria in mouse embryos occurs through autophagic degradation dependent on parkin and mul1,a defining feature of mitochondria is their maternal mode of inheritance. however  little is understood about the cellular mechanism through which paternal mitochondria  delivered from sperm  are eliminated from early mammalian embryos. autophagy has been implicated in nematodes  but whether this mechanism is conserved in mammals has been disputed. here  we show that cultured mouse fibroblasts and pre-implantation embryos use a common pathway for elimination of mitochondria. both situations utilize mitophagy  in which mitochondria are sequestered by autophagosomes and delivered to lysosomes for degradation. the e3 ubiquitin ligases parkin and mul1 play redundant roles in elimination of paternal mitochondria. the process is associated with depolarization of paternal mitochondria and additionally requires the mitochondrial outer membrane protein fis1  the autophagy adaptor p62  and pink1 kinase. our results indicate that strict maternal transmission of mitochondria relies on mitophagy and uncover a collaboration between mul1 and parkin in this process.
1497,isolation of a fusion transcript  amll ieto  with similarity to,we have developed a restriction map of the chromosome 21 breakpoint region involved in t(8;21)(q22;q22.3) acute myelogenous leukemia (aml) and have isolated a genomic junction clone containing chromosome 8 and 21 material. using probes from these regions  rearrangements have been identified in each of nine cases of t(8;21) aml examined. in addition  we have isolated cdna clones from a t(8;21) aml cdna library that contain fused sequences from chromosome 8 and 21. the chromosome 8 component  referred to as eto (for eight twenty-one)  is encoded over a large genomic region  as suggested by the analysis of corresponding yeast artificial chromosomes (yacs). the dna sequence of the chromosome 21 portion of the fusion transcript is derived from the normal aml1 gene. a striking similarity (67% identity over 387 bp  with a corresponding 69% amino acid identity) was detected between aml1 and the drosophila segmentation gene  runt. the critical consequence of the translocation is the juxtaposition of 5' sequences of aml1 to 3' sequences of eto  oriented telomere to centromere on the der(8) chromosome.
1499,relationship of physical activity and television watching with body weight and level of fatness among children: results from the third national health and nutrition examination survey.,context physical inactivity contributes to weight gain in adults  but whether this relationship is true for children of different ethnic groups is not well established. objective to assess participation in vigorous activity and television watching habits and their relationship to body weight and fatness in us children. design nationally representative cross-sectional survey with an in-person interview and medical examination. setting and participants between 1988 and 1994  4063 children aged 8 through 16 years were examined as part of the national health and nutrition examination survey iii. mexican americans and non-hispanic blacks were oversampled to produce reliable estimates for these groups. main outcome measures episodes of weekly vigorous activity and daily hours of television watched  and their relationship to body mass index and body fatness. results eighty percent of us children reported performing 3 or more bouts of vigorous activity each week. this rate was lower in non-hispanic black and mexican american girls (69% and 73%  respectively). twenty percent of us children participated in 2 or fewer bouts of vigorous activity perweek  and the rate was higher in girls (26%) than in boys (17%). overall  26% of us children watched 4 or more hours of television per day and 67% watched at least 2 hours per day. non-hispanic black children had the highest rates of watching 4 or more hours of television per day (42%). boys and girls who watch 4 or more hours of television each day had greater body fat (p<.001) and had a greater body mass index (p<.001) than those who watched less than 2 hours per day. conclusions many us children watch a great deal of television and are inadequately vigorously active. vigorous activity levels are lowest among girls  non-hispanic blacks  and mexican americans. intervention strategies to promote lifelong physical activity among us children are needed to stem the adverse health consequences of inactivity.
1501,advances in brain tumor surgery.,advances in the fields of molecular and translational research  oncology  and surgery have emboldened the medical community to believe that intrinsic brain tumors may be treatable. intraoperative imaging and brain mapping allow operations adjacent to eloquent cortex and more radical resection of tumors with increased confidence and safety. despite these advances  the infiltrating edge of a neoplasm and distant microscopic satellite lesions will never be amendable to a surgical cure. indeed  it is continued research into the delivery of an efficacious chemobiologic agent that will eventually allows us to manage this primary cause of treatment failure.
1503,integrin activation by fam38a uses a novel mechanism of r-ras targeting to the endoplasmic reticulum.,the integrin family of heterodimeric cell-surface receptors are fundamental in cell-cell and cell-matrix adhesion. changes to either integrin-ligand affinity or integrin gene expression are central to a variety of disease processes  including inflammation  cardiovascular disease and cancer. in screening for novel activators of integrin-ligand affinity we identified the previously uncharacterised multi-transmembrane domain protein fam38a  located at the endoplasmic reticulum (er). sirna knockdown of fam38a in epithelial cells inactivates endogenous beta1 integrin  reducing cell adhesion. fam38a mediates integrin activation by recruiting the small gtpase r-ras to the er  which activates the calcium-activated protease calpain by increasing ca(2+) release from cytoplasmic stores. fam38a-induced integrin activation is blocked by inhibition of either r-ras or calpain activity  or by sirna knockdown of talin  a well-described calpain substrate. this highlights a novel mechanism for integrin activation by fam38a  utilising calpain and r-ras signalling from the er. these data represent the first description of a novel spatial regulator of r-ras  of an alternative integrin activation-suppression pathway based on direct relocalisation of r-ras to the er  and of a mechanism linking r-ras and calpain signalling from the er with modulation of integrin-ligand affinity.
1505,the utilization of extracellular proteins as nutrients is suppressed by mtorc1,despite being surrounded by diverse nutrients  mammalian cells preferentially metabolize glucose and free amino acids. recently  ras-induced macropinocytosis of extracellular proteins was shown to reduce a transformed cell's dependence on extracellular glutamine. here  we demonstrate that protein macropinocytosis can also serve as an essential amino acid source. lysosomal degradation of extracellular proteins can sustain cell survival and induce activation of mtorc1 but fails to elicit significant cell accumulation. unlike its growth-promoting activity under amino-acid-replete conditions  we discovered that mtorc1 activation suppresses proliferation when cells rely on extracellular proteins as an amino acid source. inhibiting mtorc1 results in increased catabolism of endocytosed proteins and enhances cell proliferation during nutrient-depleted conditions in vitro and within vascularly compromised tumors in vivo. thus  by preventing nutritional consumption of extracellular proteins  mtorc1 couples growth to availability of free amino acids. these results may have important implications for the use of mtor inhibitors as therapeutics.
1507,metabolic reprograming in macrophage polarization,studying the metabolism of immune cells in recent years has emphasized the tight link existing between the metabolic state and the phenotype of these cells. macrophages in particular are a good example of this phenomenon. whether the macrophage obtains its energy through glycolysis or through oxidative metabolism can give rise to different phenotypes. classically activated or m1 macrophages are key players of the first line of defense against bacterial infections and are known to obtain energy through glycolysis. alternatively activated or m2 macrophages on the other hand are involved in tissue repair and wound healing and use oxidative metabolism to fuel their longer-term functions. metabolic intermediates  however  are not just a source of energy but can be directly implicated in a particular macrophage phenotype. in m1 macrophages  the krebs cycle intermediate succinate regulates hif1α  which is responsible for driving the sustained production of the pro-inflammatory cytokine il1β. in m2 macrophages  the sedoheptulose kinase carbohydrate kinase-like protein is critical for regulating the pentose phosphate pathway. the potential to target these events and impact on disease is an exciting prospect.
1509,regulation of bcl-2 expression by hur in hl60 leukemia cells and a431 carcinoma cells.,overexpression of the proto-oncogene bcl-2 promotes abnormal cell survival by inhibiting apoptosis. expression of bcl-2 is determined  in part  by regulatory mechanisms that control the stability of bcl-2 mrna. elements in the 3'-untranslated region of bcl-2 mrna have been shown to play a role in regulating the stability of the message. previously  it was found that the rna binding proteins nucleolin and ebp1 have a role in stabilizing bcl-2 mrna in hl60 cells. here  we have identified hur as a component of bcl-2 messenger ribonucleoprotein (mrnp) complexes. rna coimmunoprecipitation assays showed that hur binds to bcl-2 mrna in vivo. we also observed an rna-dependent coprecipitation of hur and nucleolin  suggesting that the two proteins are present in common mrnp complexes. moreover  nucleolin and hur bind concurrently to bcl-2 au-rich element (are) rna in vitro  suggesting separate binding sites for these proteins on bcl-2 mrna. knockdown of hur in a431 cells leads to down-regulation of bcl-2 mrna and protein levels. observation of a decreased ratio of bcl-2 mrna to heterogeneous nuclear rna in hur knockdown cells confirmed a positive role for hur in regulating bcl-2 stability. recombinant hur retards exosome-mediated decay of bcl-2 are rna in extracts of hl60 cells. this supports a role for hur in the regulation of bcl-2 mrna stability in hl60 cells  as well as in a431 cells. addition of nucleolin and hur to hl60 cell extracts produced a synergistic protective effect on decay of bcl-2 are rna. hur knockdown also leads to redistribution of bcl-2 mrna from polysomes to monosomes. thus  hur seems to play a positive role in both regulation of bcl-2 mrna translation and mrna stability.
1511,diastolic heart failure--abnormalities in active relaxation and passive stiffness of the left ventricle.,background patients with signs and symptoms of heart failure and a normal left ventricular ejection fraction are said to have diastolic heart failure. it has traditionally been thought that the pathophysiological cause of heart failure in these patients is an abnormality in the diastolic properties of the left ventricle; however  this hypothesis remains largely unproven. methods we prospectively identified 47 patients who met the diagnostic criteria for definite diastolic heart failure; all the patients had signs and symptoms of heart failure  a normal ejection fraction  and an increased left ventricular end-diastolic pressure. ten patients who had no evidence of cardiovascular disease served as controls. left ventricular diastolic function was assessed by means of cardiac catheterization and echocardiography. results the patients with diastolic heart failure had abnormal left ventricular relaxation and increased left ventricular chamber stiffness. the mean (+/-sd) time constant for the isovolumic-pressure decline (tau) was longer in the group with diastolic heart failure than in the control group (59+/-14 msec vs. 35+/-10 msec  p=0.01). the diastolic pressure-volume relation was shifted up and to the left in the patients with diastolic heart failure as compared with the controls. the corrected left ventricular passive-stiffness constant was significantly higher in the group with diastolic heart failure than in the control group (0.03+/-0.01 vs. 0.01+/-0.01  p<0.001). conclusions patients with heart failure and a normal ejection fraction have significant abnormalities in active relaxation and passive stiffness. in these patients  the pathophysiological cause of elevated diastolic pressures and heart failure is abnormal diastolic function.
1513,p38mapk controls expression of multiple cell cycle inhibitors and islet proliferation with advancing age.,aging is a complex organismal process that is controlled by genetic  environmental  and behavioral factors. accumulating evidence supports a role for different cell cycle inhibitors in mammalian aging. little is known  however  about the upstream signals that induce their expression. here  we explore the role of p38mapk by generating a dominant-negative allele (p38(af)) in which activating phosphorylation sites thr180 and tyr182 are mutated. heterozygous p38(af) mice show a marked attenuation of p38-dependent signaling and age-induced expression of multiple cell cycle inhibitors in different organs  including pancreatic islets. as a result  aged p38(af/+) mice show enhanced proliferation and regeneration of islets when compared to wild-type littermates. we further find an age-related reduction in expression of the p38-specific phosphatase wip1. wip1-deficient mice demonstrate decreased islet proliferation  while wip1 overexpression rescues aging-related decline in proliferation and regenerative capacity. we propose that modulation of p38mapk activity may provide new avenues for treating certain age-related degenerative diseases.
1515,white matter hyperintensities are a core feature of alzheimer's disease: evidence from the dominantly inherited alzheimer network.,objective white matter hyperintensities (wmhs) are areas of increased signal on t2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (mri) scans that most commonly reflect small vessel cerebrovascular disease. increased wmh volume is associated with risk and progression of alzheimer's disease (ad). these observations are typically interpreted as evidence that vascular abnormalities play an additive  independent role contributing to symptom presentation  but not core features of ad. we examined the severity and distribution of wmh in presymptomatic psen1  psen2  and app mutation carriers to determine the extent to which wmh manifest in individuals genetically determined to develop ad. methods the study comprised participants (n = 299; age = 39.03 ± 10.13) from the dominantly inherited alzheimer network  including 184 (61.5%) with a mutation that results in ad and 115 (38.5%) first-degree relatives who were noncarrier controls. we calculated the estimated years from expected symptom onset (eyo) by subtracting the affected parent's symptom onset age from the participant's age. baseline mri data were analyzed for total and regional wmh. mixed-effects piece-wise linear regression was used to examine wmh differences between carriers and noncarriers with respect to eyo. results mutation carriers had greater total wmh volumes  which appeared to increase approximately 6 years before expected symptom onset. effects were most prominent for the parietal and occipital lobe  which showed divergent effects as early as 22 years before estimated onset. interpretation autosomal-dominant ad is associated with increased wmh well before expected symptom onset. the findings suggest the possibility that wmhs are a core feature of ad  a potential therapeutic target  and a factor that should be integrated into pathogenic models of the disease. ann neurol 2016;79:929-939.
1517,ubiquitin-dependent intramembrane rhomboid protease promotes erad of membrane proteins.,the er-associated degradation (erad) pathway serves as an important cellular safeguard by directing incorrectly folded and unassembled proteins from the er to the proteasome. still  however  little is known about the components mediating erad of membrane proteins. here we show that the evolutionary conserved rhomboid family protein rhbdl4 is a ubiquitin-dependent er-resident intramembrane protease that is upregulated upon er stress. rhbdl4 cleaves single-spanning and polytopic membrane proteins with unstable transmembrane helices  leading to their degradation by the canonical erad machinery. rhbdl4 specifically binds the aaa+-atpase p97  suggesting that proteolytic processing and dislocation into the cytosol are functionally linked. the phylogenetic relationship between rhomboids and the erad factor derlin suggests that substrates for intramembrane proteolysis and protein dislocation are recruited by a shared mechanism.
1519,the cytosolic chaperonin cct/tric and cancer cell proliferation,the molecular chaperone cct/tric plays a central role in maintaining cellular proteostasis as it mediates the folding of the major cytoskeletal proteins tubulins and actins. cct/tric is also involved in the oncoprotein cyclin e  the von hippel-lindau tumour suppressor protein  cyclin b and p21(ras) folding which strongly suggests that it is involved in cell proliferation and tumor genesis. to assess the involvement of cct/tric in tumor genesis  we quantified its expression levels and activity in 18 cancer  one non-cancer human cell lines and a non-cancer human liver. we show that the expression levels of cct/tric in cancer cell lines are higher than that in normal cells. however  cct/tric activity does not always correlate with its expression levels. we therefore documented the expression levels of cct/tric modulators and partners phlp3  hop/p60  prefoldin and hsc/hsp70. our analysis reveals a functional interplay between molecular chaperones that might account for a precise modulation of cct/tric activity in cell proliferation through changes in the cellular levels of prefoldin and/or hsc/p70 and cct/tric client protein availability. our observation and approaches bring novel insights in the role of cct/tric-mediated protein folding machinery in cancer cell development.
1521,mitochondria: dynamic organelles in disease  aging  and development,mitochondria are the primary energy-generating system in most eukaryotic cells. additionally  they participate in intermediary metabolism  calcium signaling  and apoptosis. given these well-established functions  it might be expected that mitochondrial dysfunction would give rise to a simple and predictable set of defects in all tissues. however  mitochondrial dysfunction has pleiotropic effects in multicellular organisms. clearly  much about the basic biology of mitochondria remains to be understood. here we discuss recent work that suggests that the dynamics (fusion and fission) of these organelles is important in development and disease.
1523,chronic daily headache in taipei  taiwan: prevalence  follow-up and outcome predictors.,we conducted a two-stage population-based headache survey among subjects aged > or = 15 in taipei  taiwan. subjects with chronic daily headache (cdh) in the past year were identified  interviewed and followed-up. cdh was defined as a headache frequency > 15 days/month  with a duration > 4 h/day. of the 3377 participants  108 (3.2%) fulfilled the criteria for cdh  with a higher prevalence in women (4.3%) than men (1.9%). tm was the most common subtype (55%)  followed by ctth (44%). thirty-four per cent of the cdh subjects overused analgesics. at the 2-year follow-up  35% of the cdh subjects still had cdh. the significant predictors for persistent cdh at follow-up included: older age ( > or = 40 years) (rr = 2.4)  cdh onset after 32 years (rr = 1.8)  cdh duration > or = 6 years (rr = 2.0)  medication overuse (rr = 1.8)  and "daily" headache (rr = 2.1). we found that cdh is not uncommon in the community and its prevalence is similar among different populations. older subjects and those with medication overuse may have a more protracted course of illness.
1525,topiramate for smoking cessation: a randomized  placebo-controlled pilot study.,introduction topiramate (top) blocks glutamate receptors and facilitates gaba (γ-aminobutyric acid) neurotransmission  effects that may facilitate smoking cessation. we compared the effects of behavioral counseling combined with (a) top  (b) top/nicotine patch (top/nic)  or (c) placebo (plc) for smoking cessation. methods we conducted a 10-week randomized trial in which subjects and research personnel were blinded to top versus plc but not to the top/nic patch condition. in groups receiving top  the medication dosage was titrated gradually up to 200 mg/day. the smoking quit date (qd) was scheduled after 2 weeks of medication treatment. nic (21 mg) was started on the qd in subjects randomized to the top/nic condition. the main outcome measure was the end-of-treatment  4-week continuous abstinence rate (car; biochemically confirmed). results fifty-seven subjects were randomized to treatment. the 4-week car was 1 of 19 (5%) in the plc group  5 of 19 (26%) in the top group  and 7 of 19 (37%) in the top/nic group (p = .056). pairwise comparisons showed a difference between top/nic and plc (p = .042) and a nonsignificant difference between top and plc (p = .18). the plc group gained 0.37 lb/week  the top group lost 0.41 lb/week  and the top/nic group lost 0.07 lb/week (p = .004). pairwise comparisons showed a difference between top and plc (p < .001) and between top/nic and plc groups (p = .035). paresthesia was more frequent in subjects on top than plc (p = .011). conclusions top  alone or in combination with the nic  resulted in a numerically higher quit rate than plc and decreased weight. a larger  plc-controlled trial is needed to confirm these findings.
1527,the state of us health  1990-2010: burden of diseases  injuries  and risk factors.,importance understanding the major health problems in the united states and how they are changing over time is critical for informing national health policy. objectives to measure the burden of diseases  injuries  and leading risk factors in the united states from 1990 to 2010 and to compare these measurements with those of the 34 countries in the organisation for economic co-operation and development (oecd) countries. design we used the systematic analysis of descriptive epidemiology of 291 diseases and injuries  1160 sequelae of these diseases and injuries  and 67 risk factors or clusters of risk factors from 1990 to 2010 for 187 countries developed for the global burden of disease 2010 study to describe the health status of the united states and to compare us health outcomes with those of 34 oecd countries. years of life lost due to premature mortality (ylls) were computed by multiplying the number of deaths at each age by a reference life expectancy at that age. years lived with disability (ylds) were calculated by multiplying prevalence (based on systematic reviews) by the disability weight (based on population-based surveys) for each sequela; disability in this study refers to any short- or long-term loss of health. disability-adjusted life-years (dalys) were estimated as the sum of ylds and ylls. deaths and dalys related to risk factors were based on systematic reviews and meta-analyses of exposure data and relative risks for risk-outcome pairs. healthy life expectancy (hale) was used to summarize overall population health  accounting for both length of life and levels of ill health experienced at different ages. results us life expectancy for both sexes combined increased from 75.2 years in 1990 to 78.2 years in 2010; during the same period  hale increased from 65.8 years to 68.1 years. the diseases and injuries with the largest number of ylls in 2010 were ischemic heart disease  lung cancer  stroke  chronic obstructive pulmonary disease  and road injury. age-standardized yll rates increased for alzheimer disease  drug use disorders  chronic kidney disease  kidney cancer  and falls. the diseases with the largest number of ylds in 2010 were low back pain  major depressive disorder  other musculoskeletal disorders  neck pain  and anxiety disorders. as the us population has aged  ylds have comprised a larger share of dalys than have ylls. the leading risk factors related to dalys were dietary risks  tobacco smoking  high body mass index  high blood pressure  high fasting plasma glucose  physical inactivity  and alcohol use. among 34 oecd countries between 1990 and 2010  the us rank for the age-standardized death rate changed from 18th to 27th  for the age-standardized yll rate from 23rd to 28th  for the age-standardized yld rate from 5th to 6th  for life expectancy at birth from 20th to 27th  and for hale from 14th to 26th. conclusions and relevance from 1990 to 2010  the united states made substantial progress in improving health. life expectancy at birth and hale increased  all-cause death rates at all ages decreased  and age-specific rates of years lived with disability remained stable. however  morbidity and chronic disability now account for nearly half of the us health burden  and improvements in population health in the united states have not kept pace with advances in population health in other wealthy nations.
1529,effect modification by population dietary folate on the association between mthfr genotype  homocysteine  and stroke risk: a meta-analysis of genetic studies and randomised trials,background the mthfr 677c→t polymorphism has been associated with raised homocysteine concentration and increased risk of stroke. a previous overview showed that the effects were greatest in regions with low dietary folate consumption  but differentiation between the effect of folate and small-study bias was difficult. a meta-analysis of randomised trials of homocysteine-lowering interventions showed no reduction in coronary heart disease events or stroke  but the trials were generally set in populations with high folate consumption. we aimed to reduce the effect of small-study bias and investigate whether folate status modifies the association between mthfr 677c→t and stroke in a genetic analysis and meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials. methods we established a collaboration of genetic studies consisting of 237 datasets including 59 995 individuals with data for homocysteine and 20 885 stroke events. we compared the genetic findings with a meta-analysis of 13 randomised trials of homocysteine-lowering treatments and stroke risk (45 549 individuals  2314 stroke events  269 transient ischaemic attacks). findings the effect of the mthfr 677c→t variant on homocysteine concentration was larger in low folate regions (asia; difference between individuals with tt versus cc genotype  3·12 μmol/l  95% ci 2·23 to 4·01) than in areas with folate fortification (america  australia  and new zealand  high; 0·13 μmol/l  -0·85 to 1·11). the odds ratio (or) for stroke was also higher in asia (1·68  95% ci 1·44 to 1·97) than in america  australia  and new zealand  high (1·03  0·84 to 1·25). most randomised trials took place in regions with high or increasing population folate concentrations. the summary relative risk (rr) of stroke in trials of homocysteine-lowering interventions (0·94  95% ci 0·85 to 1·04) was similar to that predicted for the same extent of homocysteine reduction in large genetic studies in populations with similar folate status (predicted rr 1·00  95% ci 0·90 to 1·11). although the predicted effect of homocysteine reduction from large genetic studies in low folate regions (asia) was larger (rr 0·78  95% ci 0·68 to 0·90)  no trial has evaluated the effect of lowering of homocysteine on stroke risk exclusively in a low folate region. interpretation in regions with increasing levels or established policies of population folate supplementation  evidence from genetic studies and randomised trials is concordant in suggesting an absence of benefit from lowering of homocysteine for prevention of stroke. further large-scale genetic studies of the association between mthfr 677c→t and stroke in low folate settings are needed to distinguish effect modification by folate from small-study bias. if future randomised trials of homocysteine-lowering interventions for stroke prevention are undertaken  they should take place in regions with low folate consumption. funding full funding sources listed at end of paper (see acknowledgments).
1531,sympathetic neural and cardiovascular responses during static handgrip exercise in women with a history of hypertensive pregnancy,women with a history of hypertensive pregnancy are at greater risk for future cardiovascular events; however  the mechanisms for this increased risk are unknown. evidence suggests that an exercise stimulus unmasks latent hypertensive tendencies  identifying individuals at the greatest risk for developing cardiovascular disease. the current study examined the hypothesis that women with a hypertensive pregnancy history exhibit an augmented exercise pressor response. normotensive women with a history of healthy pregnancy (con; n = 9) and hypertensive pregnancy (hp+; n = 12) were studied during the mid-luteal phase of the menstrual cycle. heart rate (hr)  systolic and diastolic blood pressure (sbp  dbp)  and muscle sympathetic nerve activity (msna) were measured during a cold pressor test (cpt)  and  following a sufficient period of recovery  during static handgrip to fatigue (shg) and post-exercise circulatory arrest (peca). the bp  hr  and msna responses to the cpt were similar between groups. the sbp response to shg and peca was similar between groups  but dbp and hr were significantly greater in hp+ women (both p < 0.05). msna burst frequency  but not burst incidence or total activity  tended to be elevated in hp+ women during the stressor (peak δ from baseline 31 ± 13 vs. 23 ± 13 bursts/min; p for group = 0.06). despite no clinical signs of cardiovascular disease or hypertension  women with a history of hypertensive pregnancy display an enhanced cardiovascular reactivity to an exercise stimulus compared to women with a healthy pregnancy history. this response may be indicative of impaired cardiovascular control that precedes the clinical manifestation of hypertension or cardiovascular events.
1533,positive feedback between pu.1 and the cell cycle controls myeloid differentiation.,regulatory gene circuits with positive-feedback loops control stem cell differentiation  but several mechanisms can contribute to positive feedback. here  we dissect feedback mechanisms through which the transcription factor pu.1 controls lymphoid and myeloid differentiation. quantitative live-cell imaging revealed that developing b cells decrease pu.1 levels by reducing pu.1 transcription  whereas developing macrophages increase pu.1 levels by lengthening their cell cycles  which causes stable pu.1 accumulation. exogenous pu.1 expression in progenitors increases endogenous pu.1 levels by inducing cell cycle lengthening  implying positive feedback between a regulatory factor and the cell cycle. mathematical modeling showed that this cell cycle-coupled feedback architecture effectively stabilizes a slow-dividing differentiated state. these results show that cell cycle duration functions as an integral part of a positive autoregulatory circuit to control cell fate.
1535,human il-10 is produced by both type 1 helper (th1) and type 2 helper (th2) t cell clones and inhibits their antigen-specific proliferation and cytokine production.,il-10 gene transcription and il-10 protein production was assessed in both type 1 (th1) and type 2 (th2) cd4+ human t cell clones by polymerase chain reaction and elisa  respectively. although th2 clones apparently showed higher il-10 mrna levels  il-10 mrna expression was consistently found in th1 clones  as well. likewise  measurable il-10 levels were found in the supernatants of both th1 and th2 clones. the effect of human il-10 (h-il-10) and viral il-10 (v-il-10) on the proliferative response and cytokine production by th1 and th2 human clones was also investigated. addition in culture of h-il-10 and v-il-10 significantly reduced the proliferation of both th1 and th2 clones in response to the specific ag and to pha  but it had no inhibitory effect on the proliferative response of th1 and th2 clones to il-2. h-il-10 and v-il-10 also inhibited the ag-induced production of gamma-interferon (ifn-gamma) by th1 clones and the production of il-4 and il-5 by th2 clones  whereas they had no effect on the cytokine synthesis by the same clones stimulated with pma plus anti-cd3 antibody. preincubation of apc  but not of clonal t blasts  with h-il-10 resulted in the inhibition of ag-induced proliferation of both th1 and th2 clones  supporting the view that h-il-10 primarily affects apc. these data demonstrate that  unlike the murine system where il-10 is a product of th2 (but not th1) cells and seems to mainly down-regulate the th1 response  in the human system  il-10 is produced by  and down-regulates the function of  both th1 and th2 cells.
1537,identification and functional characterization of n-terminally acetylated proteins in drosophila melanogaster,protein modifications play a major role for most biological processes in living organisms. amino-terminal acetylation of proteins is a common modification found throughout the tree of life: the n-terminus of a nascent polypeptide chain becomes co-translationally acetylated  often after the removal of the initiating methionine residue. while the enzymes and protein complexes involved in these processes have been extensively studied  only little is known about the biological function of such n-terminal modification events. to identify common principles of n-terminal acetylation  we analyzed the amino-terminal peptides from proteins extracted from drosophila kc167 cells. we detected more than 1 200 mature protein n-termini and could show that n-terminal acetylation occurs in insects with a similar frequency as in humans. as the sole true determinant for n-terminal acetylation we could extract the (x)px rule that indicates the prevention of acetylation under all circumstances. we could show that this rule can be used to genetically engineer a protein to study the biological relevance of the presence or absence of an acetyl group  thereby generating a generic assay to probe the functional importance of n-terminal acetylation. we applied the assay by expressing mutated proteins as transgenes in cell lines and in flies. here  we present a straightforward strategy to systematically study the functional relevance of n-terminal acetylations in cells and whole organisms. since the (x)px rule seems to be of general validity in lower as well as higher eukaryotes  we propose that it can be used to study the function of n-terminal acetylation in all species.
1539,cancer chemoprevention: a rapidly evolving field,cancer chemoprevention involves the chronic administration of a synthetic  natural or biological agent to reduce or delay the occurrence of malignancy. the potential value of this approach has been demonstrated with trials in breast  prostate and colon cancer. the paradigm for developing new chemopreventive agents has changed markedly in the last decade and now involves extensive preclinical mechanistic evaluation of agents before clinical trials are instituted and a focus on defining biomarkers of activity that can be used as early predictors of efficacy. this review will summarise the current status of the field of chemoprevention and highlight potential new developments.
1541,the unaids estimation and projection package: a software package to estimate and project national hiv epidemics.,this paper describes the estimation and projection package (epp) for estimating and projecting hiv prevalence levels in countries with generalised epidemics. the paper gives an overall summary of the software and interface. it describes the process of defining and modelling a national epidemic in terms of locally relevant sub-epidemics and the four epidemiological parameters used to fit a curve to produce the prevalence trends in the epidemic. it also provides an example of using the epp in a country with a generalised epidemic. the paper discusses the strengths and weaknesses of the software and its envisaged future developments.
1543,brain stem and cerebellar hyperintense lesions in migraine.,background and purpose migraineurs are at increased risk of cerebellar infarcts and supratentorial white matter lesions. the prevalence  frequency  and distribution of infratentorial hyperintense lesions in migraine are unknown. methods migraineurs with aura (n=161)  without aura (n=134)  and controls (n=140) from a population-based sample of adults (30 to 60 years of age) were evaluated with mri. results infratentorial hyperintensities were identified in 13 of 295 (4.4%) migraineurs and in 1 of 140 (0.7%) controls (p=0.04). twelve cases had hyperintensities  mostly bilaterally  in the dorsal basis pontis. those with infratentorial hyperintensities also had supratentorial white matter lesions more often. conclusions we found an increased prevalence of infratentorial (mostly pontine) hyperintensities in migraineurs from the general population. this extends the knowledge about vulnerable brain regions and type of lesions in migraine brains. a hemodynamic ischemic pathogenesis is likely  but further research is needed.
1545,a tutorial on statistical methods for population association studies,although genetic association studies have been with us for many years  even for the simplest analyses there is little consensus on the most appropriate statistical procedures. here i give an overview of statistical approaches to population association studies  including preliminary analyses (hardy–weinberg equilibrium testing  inference of phase and missing data  and snp tagging)  and single-snp and multipoint tests for association. my goal is to outline the key methods with a brief discussion of problems (population structure and multiple testing)  avenues for solutions and some ongoing developments.
1547,a mouse mecp2-null mutation causes neurological symptoms that mimic rett syndrome,rett syndrome (rtt) is an inherited neurodevelopmental disorder of females that occurs once in 10 000–15 000 births. affected females develop normally for 6–18 months  but then lose voluntary movements  including speech and hand skills. most rtt patients are heterozygous for mutations in the x-linked gene mecp2 (refs. 3–12)  encoding a protein that binds to methylated sites in genomic dna and facilitates gene silencing. previous work with mecp2-null embryonic stem cells indicated that mecp2 is essential for mouse embryogenesis. here we generate mice lacking mecp2 using cre-loxp technology. both mecp2-null mice and mice in which mecp2 was deleted in brain showed severe neurological symptoms at approximately six weeks of age. compensation for absence of mecp2 in other tissues by mecp1 (refs. 19 20) was not apparent in genetic or biochemical tests. after several months  heterozygous female mice also showed behavioral symptoms. the overlapping delay before symptom onset in humans and mice  despite their profoundly different rates of development  raises the possibility that stability of brain function  not brain development per se  is compromised by the absence of mecp2.
1549,mir-205 hinders the malignant interplay between prostate cancer cells and associated fibroblasts.,aims tumor microenvironment is a strong determinant for the acquisition of metastatic potential of cancer cells. we have recently demonstrated that cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs) elicit a redox-dependent epithelial-mesenchymal transition (emt) in prostate cancer (pca) cells  driven by cycloxygenase-2/hypoxia-inducible factor-1 (hif-1)/nuclear factor-κb pathway and enhancing tumor aggressiveness. here  we investigated the involvement of micrornas (mirnas) in tumor-stroma interplay to identify possible tools to counteract oxidative stress and metastasis dissemination. results we found that mir-205 is the most downmodulated mirna in pca cells upon caf stimulation  due to direct transcriptional repression by hif-1  a known redox-sensitive transcription factor. rescue experiments demonstrated that ectopic mir-205 overexpression in pca cells counteracts caf-induced emt  thus impairing enhancement of cell invasion  acquisition of stem cell traits  tumorigenicity  and metastatic dissemination. in addition  mir-205 blocks tumor-driven activation of surrounding fibroblasts by reducing pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion. innovation overall  such findings suggest mir-205 as a brake against pca metastasis by blocking both the afferent and efferent arms of the circuit between tumor cells and associated fibroblasts  thus interrupting the pro-oxidant and pro-inflammatory circuitries engaged by reactive stroma. conclusion the evidence that mir-205 replacement in pca cells is able not only to prevent but also to revert the oxidative/pro-inflammatory axis leading to emt induced by cafs sets the rationale for developing mirna-based approaches to prevent and treat metastatic disease.
1551,the transcriptional landscape of the mammalian genome.,this study describes comprehensive polling of transcription start and termination sites and analysis of previously unidentified full-length complementary dnas derived from the mouse genome. we identify the 5' and 3' boundaries of 181 047 transcripts with extensive variation in transcripts arising from alternative promoter usage  splicing  and polyadenylation. there are 16 247 new mouse protein-coding transcripts  including 5154 encoding previously unidentified proteins. genomic mapping of the transcriptome reveals transcriptional forests  with overlapping transcription on both strands  separated by deserts in which few transcripts are observed. the data provide a comprehensive platform for the comparative analysis of mammalian transcriptional regulation in differentiation and development.
1553,cell-state-specific metabolic dependency in hematopoiesis and leukemogenesis,the balance between oxidative and nonoxidative glucose metabolism is essential for a number of pathophysiological processes. by deleting enzymes that affect aerobic glycolysis with different potencies  we examine how modulating glucose metabolism specifically affects hematopoietic and leukemic cell populations. we find that a deficiency in the m2 pyruvate kinase isoform (pkm2) reduces the levels of metabolic intermediates important for biosynthesis and impairs progenitor function without perturbing hematopoietic stem cells (hscs)  whereas lactate dehydrogenase a (ldha) deletion significantly inhibits the function of both hscs and progenitors during hematopoiesis. in contrast  leukemia initiation by transforming alleles putatively affecting either hscs or progenitors is inhibited in the absence of either pkm2 or ldha  indicating that the cell-state-specific responses to metabolic manipulation in hematopoiesis do not apply to the setting of leukemia. this finding suggests that fine-tuning the level of glycolysis may be explored therapeutically for treating leukemia while preserving hsc function.
1555,cohesins and condensins orchestrate the 4d dynamics of yeast chromosomes during the cell cycle,duplication and segregation of chromosomes involves dynamic reorganization of their internal structure by conserved architectural proteins  including the structural maintenance of chromosomes (smc) complexes cohesin and condensin. despite active investigation of the roles of these factors  a genome-wide view of dynamic chromosome architecture at both small and large scale during cell division is still missing. here  we report the first comprehensive 4d analysis of the higher-order organization of the saccharomyces cerevisiae genome throughout the cell cycle and investigate the roles of smc complexes in controlling structural transitions. during replication  cohesion establishment promotes numerous long-range intra-chromosomal contacts and correlates with the individualization of chromosomes  which culminates at metaphase. in anaphase  mitotic chromosomes are abruptly reorganized depending on mechanical forces exerted by the mitotic spindle. formation of a condensin-dependent loop bridging the centromere cluster with the rdna loci suggests that condensin-mediated forces may also directly facilitate segregation. this work therefore comprehensively recapitulates cell cycle-dependent chromosome dynamics in a unicellular eukaryote  but also unveils new features of chromosome structural reorganization during highly conserved stages of cell division.
1557,randomized  double-blind study of the safety  tolerability  and efficacy of tafenoquine versus mefloquine for malaria prophylaxis in nonimmune subjects.,this study represents the first phase iii trial of the safety  tolerability  and effectiveness of tafenoquine for malaria prophylaxis. in a randomized (3:1)  double-blinded study  australian soldiers received weekly malaria prophylaxis with 200 mg tafenoquine (492 subjects) or 250 mg mefloquine (162 subjects) for 6 months on a peacekeeping deployment to east timor. after returning to australia  tafenoquine-receiving subjects received a placebo and mefloquine-receiving subjects received 30 mg primaquine daily for 14 days. there were no clinically significant differences between hematological and biochemical parameters of the treatment groups. treatment-related adverse events for the two groups were similar (tafenoquine  13.4%; mefloquine  11.7%). three subjects on tafenoquine (0.6%) and none on mefloquine discontinued prophylaxis because of possible drug-related adverse events. no diagnoses of malaria occurred for either group during deployment  but 4 cases (0.9%) and 1 case (0.7%) of plasmodium vivax infection occurred among the tafenoquine and mefloquine groups  respectively  up to 20 weeks after discontinuation of medication. in a subset of subjects recruited for detailed safety assessments  treatment-related mild vortex keratopathy was detected in 93% (69 of 74) of tafenoquine subjects but none of the 21 mefloquine subjects. the vortex keratopathy was not associated with any effect on visual acuity and was fully resolved in all subjects by 1 year. tafenoquine appears to be safe and well tolerated as malaria prophylaxis. although the volunteers' precise exposure to malaria could not be proven in this study  tafenoquine appears to be a highly efficacious drug for malaria prophylaxis.
1559,pu.1-mediated upregulation of csf1r is crucial for leukemia stem cell potential induced by moz-tif2,leukemias and other cancers possess self-renewing stem cells that help to maintain the cancer. cancer stem cell eradication is thought to be crucial for successful anticancer therapy. using an acute myeloid leukemia (aml) model induced by the leukemia-associated monocytic leukemia zinc finger (moz)-tif2 fusion protein  we show here that aml can be cured by the ablation of leukemia stem cells. the moz fusion proteins moz-tif2 and moz-cbp interacted with the transcription factor pu.1 to stimulate the expression of macrophage colony–stimulating factor receptor (csf1r  also known as m-csfr  c-fms or cd115). studies using pu.1-deficient mice showed that pu.1 is essential for the ability of moz-tif2 to establish and maintain aml stem cells. cells expressing high amounts of csf1r (csf1rhigh cells)  but not those expressing low amounts of csf1r (csf1rlow cells)  showed potent leukemia-initiating activity. using transgenic mice expressing a drug-inducible suicide gene controlled by the csf1r promoter  we cured aml by ablation of csf1rhigh cells. moreover  induction of aml was suppressed in csf1r-deficient mice and csf1r inhibitors slowed the progression of moz-tif2–induced leukemia. thus  in this subtype of aml  leukemia stem cells are contained within the csf1rhigh cell population  and we suggest that targeting of pu.1-mediated upregulation of csf1r expression might be a useful therapeutic approach.
1561,deregulation of scribble promotes mammary tumorigenesis and reveals a role for cell polarity in carcinoma,loss of cell polarity proteins such as scribble induces neoplasia in drosophila by promoting uncontrolled proliferation. in mammals  the role that polarity proteins play during tumorigenesis is not well understood. here  we demonstrate that depletion of scribble in mammary epithelia disrupts cell polarity  blocks three-dimensional morphogenesis  inhibits apoptosis  and induces dysplasia in vivo that progress to tumors after long latency. loss of scribble cooperates with oncogenes such as c-myc to transform epithelial cells and induce tumors in vivo by blocking activation of an apoptosis pathway. like depletion  mislocalization of scribble from cell-cell junction was sufficient to promote cell transformation. interestingly  spontaneous mammary tumors in mice and humans possess both downregulated and mislocalized scribble. thus  we demonstrate that scribble inhibits breast cancer formation and that deregulation of polarity pathways promotes dysplastic and neoplastic growth in mammals by disrupting morphogenesis and inhibiting cell death.
1563,islet-like clusters derived from mesenchymal stem cells in wharton's jelly of the human umbilical cord for transplantation to control type 1 diabetes,background there is a widespread interest in developing renewable sources of islet-replacement tissue for type i diabetes mellitus. human mesenchymal cells isolated from the wharton's jelly of the umbilical cord (humscs)  which can be easily obtained and processed compared with embryonic and bone marrow stem cells  possess stem cell properties. humscs may be a valuable source for the generation of islets. methodology and principal findings humscs were induced to transform into islet-like cell clusters in vitro through stepwise culturing in neuron-conditioned medium. to assess the functional stability of the islet-like cell clusters in vivo  these cell clusters were transplanted into the liver of streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats via laparotomy. glucose tolerance was measured on week 12 after transplantation accompanied with immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy analysis. these islet-like cell clusters were shown to contain human c-peptide and release human insulin in response to physiological glucose levels. real-time rt-pcr detected the expressions of insulin and other pancreatic beta-cell-related genes (pdx1  hlxb9  nkx2.2  nkx6.1  and glut-2) in these islet-like cell clusters. the hyperglycemia and glucose intolerance in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats was significantly alleviated after xenotransplantation of islet-like cell clusters  without the use of immunosuppressants. in addition to the existence of islet-like cell clusters in the liver  some special fused liver cells were also found  which characterized by human insulin and nuclei-positive staining and possessing secretory granules. conclusions and significance in this study  we successfully differentiate humscs into mature islet-like cell clusters  and these islet-like cell clusters possess insulin-producing ability in vitro and in vivo. humscs in wharton's jelly of the umbilical cord seem to be the preferential source of stem cells to convert into insulin-producing cells  because of the large potential donor pool  its rapid availability  no risk of discomfort for the donor  and low risk of rejection.
1565,bmal1 and clock  two essential components of the circadian clock  are involved in glucose homeostasis,circadian timing is generated through a unique series of autoregulatory interactions termed the molecular clock. behavioral rhythms subject to the molecular clock are well characterized. we demonstrate a role for bmal1 and clock in the regulation of glucose homeostasis. inactivation of the known clock components bmal1 (mop3) and clock suppress the diurnal variation in glucose and triglycerides. gluconeogenesis is abolished by deletion of bmal1 and is depressed in clock mutants  but the counterregulatory response of corticosterone and glucagon to insulin-induced hypoglycaemia is retained. furthermore  a high-fat diet modulates carbohydrate metabolism by amplifying circadian variation in glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity  and mutation of clock restores the chow-fed phenotype. bmal1 and clock  genes that function in the core molecular clock  exert profound control over recovery from insulin-induced hypoglycaemia. furthermore  asynchronous dietary cues may modify glucose homeostasis via their interactions with peripheral molecular clocks.
1567,contemporary type 1 diabetes pregnancy outcomes: impact of obesity and glycaemic control.,objective to compare contemporary pregnancy outcomes in women with and without type 1 diabetes  and to examine the effects of obesity and glycaemic control on these outcomes. design and setting historical cohort study in a specialist diabetes and maternity network in victoria. participants all singleton births (at least 20 weeks' gestation)  2010-2013  were analysed: 107 pregnancies to women with type 1 diabetes and 27 075 pregnancies to women without diabetes. women with type 2 diabetes or gestational diabetes were excluded. methods data were extracted from the birthing outcomes system database; associations between type 1 diabetes and pregnancy outcomes were analysed by multivariable regression. main outcome measures mode of birth; maternal and neonatal outcomes. results the mean body mass index was higher for women with type 1 diabetes than for women without diabetes (mean  27.3 kg/m(2) [sd  5.0] v 25.7 kg/m(2) [sd  5.9]; p = 0.01); the median gestation period for their babies was shorter (median  37.3 weeks [iqr  34.6-38.1] v 39.4 weeks [iqr  38.4-40.4]; p < 0.001) and they were more likely to be large for gestational age (lga) (adjusted odds ratio [aor]  7.9; 95% ci  5.3-11.8). women with type 1 diabetes were more likely to have had labour induced (aor  3.0; 95% ci  2.0-4.5)  a caesarean delivery (aor  4.6; 95% ci  3.1-7.0)  or a pre-term birth (aor  6.7; 95% ci  4.5-10.0); their babies were more likely to have shoulder dystocia (aor  8.2; 95% ci  3.6-18.7)  hypoglycaemia (aor  10.3; 95% ci  6.8-15.6)  jaundice (aor  5.1; 95% ci  3.3-7.7)  respiratory distress (aor  2.5; 95% ci  1.4-4.4) or to suffer perinatal death (aor  4.3; 95% ci  1.9-9.9). in women with type 1 diabetes  greater obesity was associated with increased odds for an lga baby or congenital malformation  and increased hba1c levels were associated with pre-term birth and perinatal death. conclusion women with type 1 diabetes  even when managed in a specialist setting  still experience adverse obstetric and neonatal outcomes. poor glycaemic control is not wholly responsible for adverse outcomes  reinforcing the importance of other risk factors  such as obesity and weight gain.
1569,quantitative temporal viromics: an approach to investigate host-pathogen interaction,a systematic quantitative analysis of temporal changes in host and viral proteins throughout the course of a productive infection could provide dynamic insights into virus-host interaction. we developed a proteomic technique called "quantitative temporal viromics" (qtv)  which employs multiplexed tandem-mass-tag-based mass spectrometry. human cytomegalovirus (hcmv) is not only an important pathogen but a paradigm of viral immune evasion. qtv detailed how hcmv orchestrates the expression of >8 000 cellular proteins  including 1 200 cell-surface proteins to manipulate signaling pathways and counterintrinsic  innate  and adaptive immune defenses. qtv predicted natural killer and t cell ligands  as well as 29 viral proteins present at the cell surface  potential therapeutic targets. temporal profiles of >80% of hcmv canonical genes and 14 noncanonical hcmv open reading frames were defined. qtv is a powerful method that can yield important insights into viral infection and is applicable to any virus with a robust in vitro model.
1571,antibody-based hiv-1 vaccines: recent developments and future directions,the global hiv vaccine enterprise convened a two-day workshop in may of 2007 to discuss humoral immune responses to hiv and approaches to design vaccines that induce viral neutralizing and other potentially protective antibody responses. the goals of this workshop were to identify key scientific issues  gaps  and opportunities that have emerged since the enterprise strategic plan was first published in 2005 [1]  and to make recommendations that enterprise stakeholders can use to plan new activities. most effective viral vaccines work  at least in part  by generating antibodies that inactivate or neutralize the invading virus  and the existing data strongly suggest that an optimally effective hiv-1 vaccine should elicit potent antiviral neutralizing antibodies. however  unlike acute viral pathogens  hiv-1 chronically replicates in the host and evades the antibody response. this immune evasion  along with the large genetic variation among hiv-1 strains worldwide  has posed major obstacles to vaccine development. current hiv vaccine candidates do not elicit neutralizing antibodies against most circulating virus strains  and thus the induction of a protective antibody response remains a major priority for hiv-1 vaccine development. for an antibody-based hiv-1 vaccine  progress in vaccine design is generally gauged by in vitro assays that measure the ability of vaccine-induced antibodies to neutralize a broad spectrum of viral isolates representing the major genetic subtypes (clades) of hiv-1 [2]. although it is not known what magnitude and breadth of neutralization will predict protection in vaccine recipients  it is clear that current vaccine immunogens elicit antibodies that neutralize only a minority of circulating isolates. thus  much progress needs to be made in this area. also  though virus neutralization is considered a critical benchmark for a vaccine  this may not be the only benchmark for predicting success with antibody-based hiv-1 vaccine immunogens. the main targets for neutralizing antibodies to hiv-1 are the surface gp120 and trans-membrane gp41 envelope glycoproteins (env) that mediate receptor and coreceptor binding and the subsequent membrane fusion events that allow the virus to gain entry into cells [3]. antibodies neutralize the virus by binding these viral spikes and blocking virus entry into susceptible cells  such as cd4+ t cells [4 5]. in order to chronically replicate in the host  the virus exploits several mechanisms to shield itself against antibody recognition  including a dense outer coating of sugar molecules (n-linked glycans) and the strategic positioning of cysteine–cysteine loop structures on the gp120 molecule [6–8]. these shielding mechanisms  although highly effective  have vulnerabilities imposed by fitness constraints. information on the precise location and molecular structure of these vulnerable regions could be valuable for the rational design of improved vaccine immunogens. participants in the workshop identified four areas that  if given proper attention  could provide key information that would bring the field closer to an effective antibody-based hiv-1 vaccine: (1) structure-assisted immunogen design  (2) role of fc receptors and complement  (3) assay standardization and validation  and (4) immunoregulation of b cell responses.
1573,increased in vivo amyloid-β42 production  exchange  and loss in presenilin mutation carriers.,alzheimer's disease (ad) is hypothesized to be caused by an overproduction or reduced clearance of amyloid-β (aβ) peptide. autosomal dominant ad (adad) caused by mutations in the presenilin (psen) gene have been postulated to result from increased production of aβ42 compared to aβ40 in the central nervous system (cns). this has been demonstrated in rodent models of adad but not in human mutation carriers. we used compartmental modeling of stable isotope labeling kinetic (silk) studies in human carriers of psen mutations and related noncarriers to evaluate the pathophysiological effects of psen1 and psen2 mutations on the production and turnover of aβ isoforms. we compared these findings by mutation status and amount of fibrillar amyloid deposition as measured by positron emission tomography (pet) using the amyloid tracer pittsburgh compound b (pib). cns aβ42 to aβ40 production rates were 24% higher in mutation carriers compared to noncarriers  and this was independent of fibrillar amyloid deposits quantified by pet pib imaging. the fractional turnover rate of soluble aβ42 relative to aβ40 was 65% faster in mutation carriers and correlated with amyloid deposition  consistent with increased deposition of aβ42 into plaques  leading to reduced recovery of aβ42 in cerebrospinal fluid (csf). reversible exchange of aβ42 peptides with preexisting unlabeled peptide was observed in the presence of plaques. these findings support the hypothesis that aβ42 is overproduced in the cns of humans with psen mutations that cause ad  and demonstrate that soluble aβ42 turnover and exchange processes are altered in the presence of amyloid plaques  causing a reduction in aβ42 concentrations in the csf.
1575,policies for alcohol restriction and their association with interpersonal violence: a time-series analysis of homicides in cali  colombia.,background cali  colombia  has a high incidence of interpersonal violence deaths. various alcohol control policies have been implemented to reduce alcohol-related problems. the objective of this study was to determine whether different alcohol control policies were associated with changes in the incidence rate of homicides. methods ecologic study conducted during 2004-08 using a time-series design. policies were implemented with variations in hours of restriction of sales and consumption of alcohol. most restrictive policies prohibited alcohol between 2 a.m. and 10 a.m. for 446 non-consecutive days. moderately restrictive policies prohibited alcohol between 3 a.m. and 10 a.m. for 1277 non-consecutive days. lax policies prohibited alcohol between 4 a.m. and 10 a.m. for 104 non-consecutive days. in conditional autoregressive negative binomial regressions  rates of homicides and unintentional injury deaths (excluding traffic events) were compared between different periods of days when different policies were in effect. results there was an increased risk of homicides in periods when the moderately restrictive policies were in effect compared with periods when the most restrictive policies were in effect [incidence rate ratio (irr) 1.15  90% confidence interval (ci) 1.05-1.26  p = 0.012]  and there was an even higher risk of homicides in periods when the lax policies were in effect compared with periods when the most restrictive policies were in effect (irr 1.42  90% ci 1.26-1.61  p < 0.001). less restrictive policies were not associated with increased risk of unintentional injury deaths. conclusion extended hours of sales and consumption of alcohol were associated with increased risk of homicides. strong restrictions on alcohol availability could reduce the incidence of interpersonal violence events in communities where homicides are high.
1577,review article,ribosomopathies compose a collection of disorders in which genetic abnormalities cause impaired ribosome biogenesis and function  resulting in specific clinical phenotypes. congenital mutations in rps19 and other genes encoding ribosomal proteins cause diamond-blackfan anemia  a disorder characterized by hypoplastic  macrocytic anemia. mutations in other genes required for normal ribosome biogenesis have been implicated in other rare congenital syndromes  schwachman-diamond syndrome  dyskeratosis congenita  cartilage hair hypoplasia  and treacher collins syndrome. in addition  the 5q- syndrome  a subtype of myelodysplastic syndrome  is caused by a somatically acquired deletion of chromosome 5q  which leads to haploinsufficiency of the ribosomal protein rps14 and an erythroid phenotype highly similar to diamond-blackfan anemia. acquired abnormalities in ribosome function have been implicated more broadly in human malignancies. the p53 pathway provides a surveillance mechanism for protein translation as well as genome integrity and is activated by defects in ribosome biogenesis; this pathway appears to be a critical mediator of many of the clinical features of ribosomopathies. elucidation of the mechanisms whereby selective abnormalities in ribosome biogenesis cause specific clinical syndromes will hopefully lead to novel therapeutic strategies for these diseases.
1579,primate cytomegaloviruses encode and express an il-10-like protein.,an open reading frame (orf) with homology to interleukin-10 (il-10) has been identified in rhesus cytomegalovirus (rhcmv). the il-10-like protein is generated from a multispliced  polyadenylated early gene transcript encompassing part of the corresponding ul111a orf of human cmv (hcmv). immunological analyses confirm expression of the il-10-like protein both in tissue culture and in rhcmv-infected rhesus macaques. conserved orfs were subsequently identified in human  baboon  and african green monkey cmv  and a fully processed transcript has been mapped in fibroblasts infected with the towne strain of hcmv. the conservation of this previously unrecognized orf suggests that the protein may play an essential role in primate cmv persistence and pathogenesis.
1581,a temporarily distinct subpopulation of slow-cycling melanoma cells is required for continuous tumor growth,melanomas are highly heterogeneous tumors  but the biological significance of their different subpopulations is not clear. using the h3k4 demethylase jarid1b (kdm5b/plu-1/rbp2-h1) as a biomarker  we have characterized a small subpopulation of slow-cycling melanoma cells that cycle with doubling times of >4 weeks within the rapidly proliferating main population. isolated jarid1b-positive melanoma cells give rise to a highly proliferative progeny. knockdown of jarid1b leads to an initial acceleration of tumor growth followed by exhaustion which suggests that the jarid1b-positive subpopulation is essential for continuous tumor growth. expression of jarid1b is dynamically regulated and does not follow a hierarchical cancer stem cell model because jarid1b-negative cells can become positive and even single melanoma cells irrespective of selection are tumorigenic. these results suggest a new understanding of melanoma heterogeneity with tumor maintenance as a dynamic process mediated by a temporarily distinct subpopulation.
1583,arp2/3 complex inhibition radically alters lamellipodial actin architecture  suspended cell shape  and the cell spreading process,recent studies have investigated the dendritic actin cytoskeleton of the cell edge's lamellipodial (lp) region by experimentally decreasing the activity of the actin filament nucleator and branch former  the arp2/3 complex. here we extend these studies via pharmacological inhibition of the arp2/3 complex in sea urchin coelomocytes  cells that possess an unusually broad lp region and display correspondingly exaggerated centripetal flow. using light and electron microscopy  we demonstrate that arp2/3 complex inhibition via the drug ck666 dramatically altered lp actin architecture  slowed centripetal flow  drove a lamellipodial-to-filopodial shape change in suspended cells  and induced a novel actin structural organization during cell spreading. a general feature of the ck666 phenotype in coelomocytes was transverse actin arcs  and arc generation was arrested by a formin inhibitor. we also demonstrate that ck666 treatment produces actin arcs in other cells with broad lp regions  namely fish keratocytes and drosophila s2 cells. we hypothesize that the actin arcs made visible by arp2/3 complex inhibition in coelomocytes may represent an exaggerated manifestation of the elongate mother filaments that could possibly serve as the scaffold for the production of the dendritic actin network.
1585,centrosome aberrations: cause or consequence of cancer progression?,many human tumours show centrosome aberrations  indicating an underlying deregulation of centrosome structure  duplication or segregation. centrosomes organize microtubule arrays throughout the cell cycle  thereby influencing both tissue architecture and the accuracy of chromosome segregation. but what are the origins of centrosomal abnormalities in tumours  and what impact do they have on the generation of invasive  genetically unbalanced cells during cancer progression?
1587,incidence of cancer after immunosuppressive treatment for heart transplantation.,prolonged or intensive immunosuppressive therapy used after organ transplantation is complicated by an increased incidence of cancer. striking differences in incidence are observed in heart and heart-lung transplant recipients when compared with renal transplant patients. the most significant increase was in the incidence of lymphomas in cardiac versus renal patients. moreover  a two-fold greater increase of all neoplasms was found in cardiac recipients  with nearly a six-fold increase in visceral tumors. several factors may account for these differences. in cardiac allograft recipients  intensive immunosuppression is frequently used to reverse acute rejection and the highest number of cardiac transplants was performed in the era of polypharmacy  usually consisting of triple therapy.
1589,gfi1 and gfi1b control the loss of endothelial identity of hemogenic endothelium during hematopoietic commitment.,recent studies have established that during embryonic development  hematopoietic progenitors and stem cells are generated from hemogenic endothelium precursors through a process termed endothelial to hematopoietic transition (eht). the transcription factor runx1 is essential for this process  but its main downstream effectors remain largely unknown. here  we report the identification of gfi1 and gfi1b as direct targets of runx1 and critical regulators of eht. gfi1 and gfi1b are able to trigger  in the absence of runx1  the down-regulation of endothelial markers and the formation of round cells  a morphologic change characteristic of eht. conversely  blood progenitors in gfi1- and gfi1b-deficient embryos maintain the expression of endothelial genes. moreover  those cells are not released from the yolk sac and disseminated into embryonic tissues. taken together  our findings demonstrate a critical and specific role of the gfi1 transcription factors in the first steps of the process leading to the generation of hematopoietic progenitors from hemogenic endothelium.
1591,expression of basal cell keratin 15 and keratin 19 in oral squamous neoplasms represents diverse pathophysiologies.,human epithelium contains keratin  which is expressed during differentiation. depending on the target cell type  different types of keratin are expressed  and their alterations seem to represent changes in cell properties. the basal cells of oral epithelium express keratin 5 (k5)  k14  k15 and k19  but their alterations in tumors are unclear. to address this issue and to seek possible diagnostic application  we examined the expression of these keratins in oral squamous cell carcinoma (oscc) and squamous intraepithelial neoplasm (sin). cdna microarray analysis of 43 oscc revealed slight upregulation of krt14  downregulation of krt15 and krt19  and unaltered krt5 expression. there were great variations in krt15 and krt19 expression across each cancer. well-differentiated oscc tended to express more krt15 and less krt19 compared to moderately- or poorly-differentiated oscc. krt15 was positively correlated with differentiation-related keratin  krt13. these observations were further investigated by immunohistochemical examination. k5 and k14 were ubiquitously expressed in all 50 oscc and 50 sin examined. k15 and k19 were generally downregulated  but were considerably retained in about half of the cases and showed diverse expression patterns. k15-positive cancers tended to show a well-differentiated phenotype  and k19-positive cancers tended to show more invasive tumor fronts. most k19-positive cancers appeared to develop with little associating sin. k19 was consistently downregulated in sin  while k15 was downregulated mainly in high grade sin. in summary  k15 and k19  unlike k5 or k14  are expressed variably in both sin and oscc  which reflects the differences in their pathogenesis and biological behaviors  suggesting their prospective applications as markers for subclassifying oscc and sin.
1593,insecticide impregnated curtains to control domestic transmission of cutaneous leishmaniasis in venezuela: cluster randomised trial.,objective to measure the impact on transmission of leishmaniasis of curtains impregnated with insecticide. design cluster randomised controlled trial: household interview survey  observational study of people's behaviour  entomological study with light trap captures of sandflies inside houses. setting 14 urban sectors in trujillo  venezuela. participants 2913 inhabitants of 569 houses. intervention sectors were paired according to their 12 month cumulative incidence of cutaneous leishmaniasis  one sector in each pair was randomly allocated to receive polyester curtains impregnated with lambdacyhalothrin (intervention group) while the other sector received curtains without insecticide or no curtains (control groups). after 12 months a follow up household survey was conducted. main outcome measures reduction in abundance of sandflies indoors and 12 month incidence of clinical cases of cutaneous leishmaniasis. results transmission of cutaneous leishmaniasis occurred mainly in the domestic setting  with the incidence over 12 months of 4%. the mean number of sandflies per trap per night was 16. after follow up the 12 month incidence of cutaneous leishmaniasis was 0% in the intervention group and 8% in the six pairs in the control group that received unimpregnated curtains (mean difference 8  95% confidence interval 4.22 to 11.78; p=0.001). there were significantly fewer sandflies in the intervention group (2 v 15  mean difference 13 sandflies per trap; 9 to 17; p<0.001). conclusion curtains impregnated with insecticide provide a high degree of protection against indoor transmission of cutaneous leishmaniasis.
1595,relative roles of direct regeneration versus paracrine effects of human cardiosphere-derived cells transplanted into infarcted mice.,rationale multiple biological mechanisms contribute to the efficacy of cardiac cell therapy. most prominent among these are direct heart muscle and blood vessel regeneration from transplanted cells  as opposed to paracrine enhancement of tissue preservation and/or recruitment of endogenous repair. objective human cardiac progenitor cells  cultured as cardiospheres (csps) or as csp-derived cells (cdcs)  have been shown to be capable of direct cardiac regeneration in vivo. here we characterized paracrine effects in cdc transplantation and investigated their relative importance versus direct differentiation of surviving transplanted cells. methods and results in vitro  many growth factors were found in media conditioned by human adult csps and cdcs; cdc-conditioned media exerted antiapoptotic effects on neonatal rat ventricular myocytes  and proangiogenic effects on human umbilical vein endothelial cells. in vivo  human cdcs secreted vascular endothelial growth factor  hepatocyte growth factor  and insulin-like growth factor 1 when transplanted into the same scid mouse model of acute myocardial infarction where they were previously shown to improve function and to produce tissue regeneration. injection of cdcs in the peri-infarct zone increased the expression of akt  decreased apoptotic rate and caspase 3 level  and increased capillary density  indicating overall higher tissue resilience. based on the number of human-specific cells relative to overall increases in capillary density and myocardial viability  direct differentiation quantitatively accounted for 20% to 50% of the observed effects. conclusions together with their spontaneous commitment to cardiac and angiogenic differentiation  transplanted cdcs serve as "role models " recruiting endogenous regeneration and improving tissue resistance to ischemic stress. the contribution of the role model effect rivals or exceeds that of direct regeneration.
1597,single-cell rna-seq reveals dynamic  random monoallelic gene expression in mammalian cells,expression from both alleles is generally observed in analyses of diploid cell populations  but studies addressing allelic expression patterns genome-wide in single cells are lacking. here  we present global analyses of allelic expression across individual cells of mouse preimplantation embryos of mixed background (cast/eij × c57bl/6j). we discovered abundant (12 to 24%) monoallelic expression of autosomal genes and that expression of the two alleles occurs independently. the monoallelic expression appeared random and dynamic because there was considerable variation among closely related embryonic cells. similar patterns of monoallelic expression were observed in mature cells. our allelic expression analysis also demonstrates the de novo inactivation of the paternal x chromosome. we conclude that independent and stochastic allelic transcription generates abundant random monoallelic expression in the mammalian cell.
1599,a microrna feedback loop regulates global microrna abundance during aging.,expression levels of many micrornas (mirnas) change during aging  notably declining globally in a number of organisms and tissues across taxa. however  little is known about the mechanisms or the biological relevance for this change. we investigated the network of genes that controls mirna transcription and processing during c. elegans aging. we found that mirna biogenesis genes are highly networked with transcription factors and aging-associated mirnas. in particular  mir-71  known to influence life span and itself up-regulated during aging  represses alg-1/argonaute expression post-transcriptionally during aging. increased alg-1 abundance in mir-71 loss-of-function mutants led to globally increased mirna expression. interestingly  these mutants demonstrated widespread mrna expression dysregulation and diminished levels of variability both in gene expression and in overall life span. thus  the progressive molecular decline often thought to be the result of accumulated damage over an organism's life may be partially explained by a mirna-directed mechanism of age-associated decline.
1601,immune activation with hiv vaccines,the development of a safe and effective hiv vaccine is perhaps the most important and challenging goal remaining in hiv-aids research. recent progress using a poxvirus vector prime and envelope protein boost strategy demonstrated a modest but statistically significant level of efficacy and established the concept that a vaccine could prevent hiv infection (1)  and approaches to boost durability and efficacy are currently in the planning stages (2). but the results of two vaccine concepts based on recombinant adenovirus serotype-5 (rad5) (3–5) pointed to a potential major problem—that such vaccines might increase susceptibility to hiv infection. this also raised the question of whether the problem extends to some or all of the other recombinant adenovirus vectors currently in development or to other vector-based vaccines.
1603,global and regional burden of hospital admissions for severe acute lower respiratory infections in young children in 2010: a systematic analysis,background the annual number of hospital admissions and in-hospital deaths due to severe acute lower respiratory infections (alri) in young children worldwide is unknown. we aimed to estimate the incidence of admissions and deaths for such infections in children younger than 5 years in 2010. methods we estimated the incidence of admissions for severe and very severe alri in children younger than 5 years  stratified by age and region  with data from a systematic review of studies published between jan 1  1990  and march 31  2012  and from 28 unpublished population-based studies. we applied these incidence estimates to population estimates for 2010  to calculate the global and regional burden in children admitted with severe alri in that year. we estimated in-hospital mortality due to severe and very severe alri by combining incidence estimates with case fatality ratios from hospital-based studies. findings we identified 89 eligible studies and estimated that in 2010  11·9 million (95% ci 10·3-13·9 million) episodes of severe and 3·0 million (2·1-4·2 million) episodes of very severe alri resulted in hospital admissions in young children worldwide. incidence was higher in boys than in girls  the sex disparity being greatest in south asian studies. on the basis of data from 37 hospital studies reporting case fatality ratios for severe alri  we estimated that roughly 265 000 (95% ci 160 000-450 000) in-hospital deaths took place in young children  with 99% of these deaths in developing countries. therefore  the data suggest that although 62% of children with severe alri are treated in hospitals  81% of deaths happen outside hospitals. interpretation severe alri is a substantial burden on health services worldwide and a major cause of hospital referral and admission in young children. improved hospital access and reduced inequities  such as those related to sex and rural status  could substantially decrease mortality related to such infection. community-based management of severe disease could be an important complementary strategy to reduce pneumonia mortality and health inequities. funding who.
1605,risk of breast cancer in relation to blood lipids: a prospective study of 31 209 norwegian women,in this prospective study  the relationship between blood lipids and breast cancer risk was examined. between 1977 and 1983  31 209 norwegian women  20 to 54 years of age  attended a health screening carried out by the norwegian national health screening services. the screening consisted of a questionnaire  anthropometric measurements  and nonfasting blood drawn for analysis of total serum cholesterol (tc)  triglyceride (tg)  and high density lipoprotein (hdl) cholesterol. low density lipoprotein (ldl) cholesterol was calculated by the friedewald's formula. during the seven to 13 years of follow-up  302 breast cancer cases were identified by linkage to the norwegian cancer registry. after adjustment for some of the known risk factors of breast cancer  the relative risk of women in the highest quartile of tc compared with women in the lowest quartile was 0.87 (95 percent confidence interval [ci]=0.61–1.23). the corresponding relative risks and cis were 0.82 (ci=0.58–1.16) for tg  1.02 (ci=0.73–1.42) for hdl  and 0.93 (ci=0.67–1.29) for ldl. no association between breast cancer risk and blood lipids was found in the total population  nor when the data were divided into those diagnosed before or after the age of 50 as a dividing line between pre- and postmenopausal diagnosis.
1607,arno regulates vegf-dependent tissue responses by stabilizing endothelial vegfr-2 surface expression.,aims the vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) stimulates angiogenesis by induction of vessel permeability  proliferation  and migration of endothelial cells  an important process in ischaemic diseases. adp-ribosylation factor (arf) nucleotide-binding site opener (arno) (cytohesin-2) is a guanine exchange factor important for cellular signalling through arf gtpases. however  a role for arno in vegf-dependent endothelial processes has so far not been documented. therefore  we investigated whether arno has a role in vegf-dependent activation of endothelial cells and thus vessel permeability. methods and results arno expression was observed in endothelial cells in vitro by rt-pcr  western blotting  and immunofluorescence as well as ex vivo by immunohistochemical staining of mouse aorta. treatment with the cytohesin inhibitor secinh3 or with an arno sirna prevented vegf-dependent akt activation  assessed by detection of phosphorylated akt  and proliferation of endothelial cells in vitro  measured by methylthiazoletetrazolium (mtt) reduction. in addition  arno suppression reduced vegf-induced permeability in vessels of the mouse (c57bl/6) cremaster muscle in vivo  as measured by extravasation of fluorescein isothiocyanate (fitc)-dextran. moreover  arno knock-down accelerated ligand-induced reduction in vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2 (vegfr-2) surface expression  internalization  and degradation  as assessed by flow cytometry and western blotting  respectively. conclusion our findings indicate an important and novel role for endothelial arno in vegf-dependent initiation of angiogenesis by regulation of vegfr-2 internalization in endothelial cells  resulting in the activation of the akt pathway  vessel permeability  and ultimately endothelial proliferation. thus  arno may be a new essential player in endothelial signalling and angiogenesis.
1609,genetics and beyond – the transcriptome of human monocytes and disease susceptibility,background variability of gene expression in human may link gene sequence variability and phenotypes; however  non-genetic variations  alone or in combination with genetics  may also influence expression traits and have a critical role in physiological and disease processes. methodology/principal findings to get better insight into the overall variability of gene expression  we assessed the transcriptome of circulating monocytes  a key cell involved in immunity-related diseases and atherosclerosis  in 1 490 unrelated individuals and investigated its association with >675 000 snps and 10 common cardiovascular risk factors. out of 12 808 expressed genes  2 745 expression quantitative trait loci were detected (p<5.78x10(-12))  most of them (90%) being cis-modulated. extensive analyses showed that associations identified by genome-wide association studies of lipids  body mass index or blood pressure were rarely compatible with a mediation by monocyte expression level at the locus. at a study-wide level (p<3.9x10(-7))  1 662 expression traits (13.0%) were significantly associated with at least one risk factor. genome-wide interaction analyses suggested that genetic variability and risk factors mostly acted additively on gene expression. because of the structure of correlation among expression traits  the variability of risk factors could be characterized by a limited set of independent gene expressions which may have biological and clinical relevance. for example expression traits associated with cigarette smoking were more strongly associated with carotid atherosclerosis than smoking itself. conclusions/significance this study demonstrates that the monocyte transcriptome is a potent integrator of genetic and non-genetic influences of relevance for disease pathophysiology and risk assessment.
1611,wnt5a mediates nerve growth factor-dependent axonal branching and growth in developing sympathetic neurons.,nerve growth factor (ngf) is a potent survival and axon growth factor for neuronal populations in the peripheral nervous system. although the mechanisms by which target-derived ngf influences survival of innervating neurons have been extensively investigated  its regulation of axonal growth and target innervation are just being elucidated. here  we identify wnt5a  a member of the wnt family of secreted growth factors  as a key downstream effector of ngf in mediating axonal branching and growth in developing sympathetic neurons. wnt5a is robustly expressed in sympathetic neurons when their axons are innervating ngf-expressing targets. ngf:trka signaling enhances neuronal expression of wnt5a. wnt5a rapidly induces axon branching while it has a long-term effect on promoting axon extension. loss of wnt5a function revealed that it is necessary for ngf-dependent axonal branching and growth  but not survival  in vitro. furthermore  wnt5a(-/-) mice display reduced innervation of ngf-expressing target tissues  and a subsequent increase in neuronal apoptosis  in vivo. wnt5a functions in developing sympathetic neurons by locally activating protein kinase c in axons. together  our findings define a novel regulatory pathway in which wnt5a  expressed in sympathetic neurons in response to target-derived ngf  regulates innervation of peripheral targets.
1613,arid1a mutations in endometriosis-associated ovarian carcinomas.,background ovarian clear-cell and endometrioid carcinomas may arise from endometriosis  but the molecular events involved in this transformation have not been described. methods we sequenced the whole transcriptomes of 18 ovarian clear-cell carcinomas and 1 ovarian clear-cell carcinoma cell line and found somatic mutations in arid1a (the at-rich interactive domain 1a [swi-like] gene) in 6 of the samples. arid1a encodes baf250a  a key component of the swi–snf chromatin remodeling complex. we sequenced arid1a in an additional 210 ovarian carcinomas and a second ovarian clear-cell carcinoma cell line and measured baf250a expression by means of immunohistochemical analysis in an additional 455 ovarian carcinomas. results arid1a mutations were seen in 55 of 119 ovarian clear-cell carcinomas (46%)  10 of 33 endometrioid carcinomas (30%)  and none of the 76 high-grade serous ovarian carcinomas. seventeen carcinomas had two somatic mutations each. loss of the baf250a protein correlated strongly with the ovarian clear-cell carcinoma and endometrioid carcinoma subtypes and the presence of arid1a mutations. in two patients  arid1a mutations and loss of baf250a expression were evident in the tumor and contiguous atypical endometriosis but not in distant endometriotic lesions. conclusions these data implicate arid1a as a tumor-suppressor gene frequently disrupted in ovarian clear-cell and endometrioid carcinomas. since arid1a mutation and loss of baf250a can be seen in the preneoplastic lesions  we speculate that this is an early event in the transformation of endometriosis into cancer. (funded by the british columbia cancer foundation and the vancouver general hospital–university of british columbia hospital foundation.).
1615,non-canonical pi3k-cdc42-pak-mek-erk signaling promotes immune-complex-induced apoptosis in human neutrophils,neutrophils are peripheral blood leukocytes that represent the first line of immune cell defense against bacterial and fungal infections but are also crucial players in the generation of the inflammatory response. many neutrophil cell surface receptors regulate important cellular processes via activation of agonist-activated pi3ks. we show here that activation of human neutrophils with insoluble immune complexes drives a previously uncharacterized  pi3k-dependent  non-canonical  pro-apoptotic signaling pathway  fcγr-pi3kβ/δ-cdc42-pak-mek-erk. this is a rare demonstration of ras/raf-independent activation of erk and of pi3k-mediated activation of cdc42. in addition  comparative analysis of immune-complex- and fmlf-induced signaling uncovers key differences in pathways used by human and murine neutrophils. the non-canonical pathway we identify in this study may be important for the resolution of inflammation in chronic inflammatory diseases that rely on immune-complex-driven neutrophil activation.
1617,the nuclear receptors sf1 and lrh1 are expressed in endometrial cancer cells and regulate steroidogenic gene transcription by cooperating with ap-1 factors.,excessive exposure to estradiol represents the main risk factor for endometrial cancer. the abnormally high estradiol levels in the endometrium of women with endometrial cancer are most likely due to overproduction by the tumour itself. endometrial cancer cells express the genes encoding the steroidogenic enzymes involved in estradiol synthesis. here we used rt-pcr and western blot to show that the nuclear receptors sf1 and lrh1  two well-known regulators of steroidogenic gene expression in gonadal and adrenal cells  are also expressed in endometrial cancer cell lines. by transient transfections  we found that sf1 and lrh1  but not the related nuclear receptor nur77  can activate the promoters of three human steroidogenic genes: star  hsd3b2  and cyp19a1 pii. similarly  forskolin but not pma  could activate all three promoters. in addition  we found that both sf1 and lrh1 can transcriptionally cooperate with the ap-1 family members c-jun and c-fos  known to be associated with enhanced proliferation of endometrial carcinoma cells  to further enhance activation of the star  hsd3b2  and cyp19a1 pii promoters. all together  our data provide novel insights into the mechanisms of steroidogenic gene expression in endometrial cancer cells and thus in the regulation of estradiol biosynthesis by tumour cells.
1619,age as a risk factor for thrombocytopenia and anaemia in children treated for acute uncomplicated falciparum malaria.,background & objectives anaemia is commonly observed in children with malaria  but reports on leucocyte and platelet count abnormalities associated with malaria are inconsistent. this study examined the effect of age  gender  parasite density and temperature on haematological parameters in children with acute uncomplicated malaria. methods haematological parameters were determined in children with acute uncomplicated malaria  and these were correlated with age  sex  temperature and parasite density. statistical analysis was done using sas 9.1. results six hundred and ninety five children with acute uncomplicated malaria participated in the study. the mean age was 51.7 months +/- 33.8. at presentation  anaemia occurred in 43.8% of the patients and children <5 yr had a significantly lower haematocrit (28.4% +/- 4.8) than that of older children (32.8% +/- 4.8) (p <0.001)  but the haematocrit was not significantly different by days 14 and 28. there was no difference between both sexes. leucocytosis was more frequently seen than leucopenia (9.5% vs 3%). thrombocytopenia was found in 59.3% of enrolled patients. more than half of the patients with thrombocytopenia had recovered by day 28. baseline platelet count was related to day 14 (r = 0.6  p < 0.0001) and day 28 (r = 0.2  p = 0.0015) and the haematocrit on day 28 (r = 0.12  p = 0.00197). platelet count showed no correlation with temperature  parasite density and leucocyte count. haematocrit correlated with age (r = 0.4  p < 0.0001); but not with parasite density or temperature. leucocyte count showed no correlation with age or parasite density. conclusion while thrombocytopenia was the most common haematological finding and may be of diagnostic importance  anaemia and leucocytosis were more common in the under fives.
1621,structure-based drug design identifies polythiophenes as antiprion compounds,prions cause transmissible spongiform encephalopathies for which no treatment exists. prions consist of prpsc  a misfolded and aggregated form of the cellular prion protein (prpc). we explore the antiprion properties of luminescent conjugated polythiophenes (lcps) that bind and stabilize ordered protein aggregates. by administering a library of structurally diverse lcps to the brains of prion-infected mice via osmotic minipumps  we found that antiprion activity required a minimum of five thiophene rings bearing regularly spaced carboxyl side groups. solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance analyses and molecular dynamics simulations revealed that anionic side chains interacted with complementary  regularly spaced cationic amyloid residues of model prions. these findings allowed us to extract structural rules governing the interaction between lcps and protein aggregates  which we then used to design a new set of lcps with optimized binding. the new set of lcps showed robust prophylactic and therapeutic potency in prion-infected mice  with the lead compound extending survival by >80% and showing activity against both mouse and hamster prions as well as efficacy upon intraperitoneal administration into mice. these results demonstrate the feasibility of targeted chemical design of compounds that may be useful for treating diseases of aberrant protein aggregation such as prion disease.
1623,mhc class i antigen presentation: learning from viral evasion strategies,the cell surface display of peptides by mhc class i molecules to lymphocytes provides the host with an important surveillance mechanism to protect against invading pathogens. however  in turn  viruses have evolved elegant strategies to inhibit various stages of the mhc class i antigen presentation pathway and prevent the display of viral peptides. this review highlights how the elucidation of mechanisms of viral immune evasion is important for advancing our understanding of virus–host interactions and can further our knowledge of the mhc class i presentation pathway as well as other cellular pathways.
1625,the role of red cell distribution width in the prognosis of patients with gastric cancer.,background although the red cell distribution width (rdw) has been reported as a reliable predictor of prognosis in several types of cancer  to our knowledge the prognostic value of rdw in gastric carcinoma has not been studied  so far. objective we aimed to investigate the role of red cell distribution width (rdw) in predicting prognosis in gastric cancer patients. methods all gastric cancer patients who underwent curative surgery (n= 172  110m/62f) over a five-year study period were evaluated. data on demographics  preoperative rdw levels  tumor characteristics (early stage: i and ii  advanced stage: iiia-b-c)  disease-free (dfs) and overall survival (os) were retrospectively reviewed. patients were classified as high rdw group (rdw ≥ 16  n= 62) or low rdw group (rdw < 16  n= 110). results overall mortality and postoperative 60-day mortality in both groups were 55% and 14%  respectively. a borderline significant association between rdw (0.063) and mortality was noted. preoperative rdw levels were significantly higher in patients with short-term mortality (17.9 ± 4.3 vs. 16 ± 3.2  p= 0.015). in high rdw group  the incidence of advanced gastric cancer was significantly higher (75 vs. 51%  p= 0.002)  whereas dfs (0.035) and os (p= 0.04) were lower. conclusion the frequency of advanced cancer was high in patients with high rdwvalues. high rdw values were strongly associated with short-term mortality although only a borderline relationship with overall survival was observed.
1627,dna replication is required to elicit cellular responses to psoralen-induced dna interstrand cross-links.,following introduction of dna interstrand cross-links (icls)  mammalian cells display chromosome breakage or cell cycle delay with a 4n dna content. to further understand the nature of the delay  previously described as a g(2)/m arrest  we developed a protocol to generate icls during specific intervals of the cell cycle. synchronous populations of g(1)  s  and g(2) cells were treated with photoactivated 4'-hydroxymethyl-4 5' 8-trimethylpsoralen (hmt) and scored for normal passage into mitosis. in contrast to what was found for ionizing radiation  icls introduced during g(2) did not result in a g(2)/m arrest  mitotic arrest  or chromosome breakage. rather  subsequent passage through s phase was required to trigger both chromosome breakage and arrest in the next cell cycle. similarly  icls introduced during g(1) did not cause a g(1)/s arrest. we conclude that dna replication is required to elicit the cellular responses of cell cycle arrest and genomic instability after psoralen-induced icls. in primary human fibroblasts  the 4n dna content cell cycle arrest triggered by icls was long lasting but reversible. kinetic analysis suggested that these cells could remove up to approximately 2 500 icls/genome at an average rate of 11 icls/genome/h.
1629,parathyroid hormone-induced e4bp4/nfil3 down-regulates transcription in osteoblasts.,parathyroid hormone (pth)  a major regulator of bone metabolism  activates the pthr1 receptor on the osteoblast plasma membrane to initiate signaling and induce transcription of primary response genes. subsequently  primary genes with transcriptional activity regulate expression of downstream pth targets. we have identified the adenovirus e4 promoter-binding protein/nuclear factor regulated by il-3 (e4bp4) as a pth-induced primary gene in osteoblasts. e4bp4 is a basic leucine zipper (bzip) transcription factor that represses or activates transcription in non-osteoblastic cells. we report here that pth rapidly and transiently induced e4bp4 mrna in osteoblastic cells and that this induction did not require protein synthesis. pth also induced e4bp4 protein synthesis and e4bp4 binding to a consensus but not to a mutant e4bp4 response element (ebpre). e4bp4 overexpression inhibited an ebpre-containing promoter-reporter construct  whereas pth treatment attenuated activity of the same construct in primary mouse osteoblasts. finally  e4bp4 overexpression inhibited pth-induced activity of a cyclooxygenase-2 promoter-reporter construct. our data suggest a role for e4bp4 in attenuation of pth target gene transcription in osteoblasts.
1631,size separation of circulatory dna in maternal plasma permits ready detection of fetal dna polymorphisms.,background analysis of fetal dna in maternal plasma has recently been introduced as a new method for noninvasive prenatal diagnosis  particularly for the analysis of fetal genetic traits  which are absent from the maternal genome  e.g.  rhd or y-chromosome-specific sequences. to date  the analysis of other fetal genetic traits has been more problematic because of the overwhelming presence of maternal dna sequences in the circulation. we examined whether different biochemical properties can be discerned between fetal and maternal circulatory dna. methods plasma dna was examined by agarose gel electrophoresis. the fractions of fetal and maternal dna in size-fractionated fragments were assayed by real-time pcr. the determination of paternally and maternally inherited fetal genetic traits was examined by use of highly polymorphic chromosome-21-specific microsatellite markers. results size fractionation of circulatory dna indicated that the major portion of cell-free fetal dna had an approximate molecular size of <0.3 kb  whereas maternally derived sequences were  on average  considerably larger than 1 kb. analysis of size-fractionated dna (</=0.3 kb) from maternal plasma samples facilitated the ready detection of paternally and maternally inherited microsatellite markers. conclusions circulatory fetal dna can be enriched by size selection of fragment sizes less than approximately 0.3 kb. such selection permits easier analysis of both paternally and maternally inherited dna polymorphisms.
1633,fibroblast growth factor 21 prevents atherosclerosis by suppression of hepatic sterol regulatory element-binding protein-2 and induction of adiponectin in mice,background fibroblast growth factor 21 (fgf21) is a metabolic hormone with pleiotropic effects on glucose and lipid metabolism and insulin sensitivity. it acts as a key downstream target of both peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor α and γ  the agonists of which have been used for lipid lowering and insulin sensitization  respectively. however  the role of fgf21 in the cardiovascular system remains elusive. methods and results the roles of fgf21 in atherosclerosis were investigated by evaluating the impact of fgf21 deficiency and replenishment with recombinant fgf21 in apolipoprotein e(-/-) mice. fgf21 deficiency causes a marked exacerbation of atherosclerotic plaque formation and premature death in apolipoprotein e(-/-) mice  which is accompanied by hypoadiponectinemia and severe hypercholesterolemia. replenishment of fgf21 protects against atherosclerosis in apolipoprotein e(-/-)mice via 2 independent mechanisms  inducing the adipocyte production of adiponectin  which in turn acts on the blood vessels to inhibit neointima formation and macrophage inflammation  and suppressing the hepatic expression of the transcription factor sterol regulatory element-binding protein-2  thereby leading to reduced cholesterol synthesis and attenuation of hypercholesterolemia. chronic treatment with adiponectin partially reverses atherosclerosis without obvious effects on hypercholesterolemia in fgf21-deficient apolipoprotein e(-/-) mice. by contrast  the cholesterol-lowering effects of fgf21 are abrogated by hepatic expression of sterol regulatory element-binding protein-2. conclusions fgf21 protects against atherosclerosis via fine tuning the multiorgan crosstalk among liver  adipose tissue  and blood vessels.
1635,c-reactive protein decreases interleukin-10 secretion in activated human monocyte-derived macrophages via inhibition of cyclic amp production.,objective c-reactive protein (crp)  a cardiovascular risk marker  could also participate in atherosclerosis. atherosclerotic plaques express crp and interleukin (il)-10  a major antiinflammatory cytokine. il-10 deficiency results in increased lesion formation  whereas il-10 delivery attenuates lesions. we tested the effect of crp on lipopolysaccharide (lps)-induced il-10 secretion in human monocyte-derived macrophages (hmdms). methods and results incubation of hmdms with crp significantly decreased lps-induced il-10 mrna and intracellular and secreted il-10 protein and destabilized il-10 mrna. also  crp alone increased secretion of il-8  il-6  and tumor necrosis factor from hmdms and did not inhibit lps-induced secretion of these cytokines. fc gamma receptor i antibodies significantly reversed crp-mediated il-10 inhibition. crp significantly decreased intracellular camp  phospho-camp response element binding protein (pcreb)  and adenyl cyclase activity. camp agonists reversed crp-mediated il-10 inhibition. overexpression of wild-type and constitutively active creb in thp-1 cells revealed attenuation of the inhibitory effect of crp on lps-induced il-10 levels. crp also inhibited hemoglobin:haptoglobin-induced il-10 and heme oxygenase-1. furthermore  administration of human crp to rats significantly decreased il-10 levels. conclusions this study provides novel evidence that crp  by decreasing il-10 alters the antiinflammatory/proinflammatory balance  accentuating inflammation  which is pivotal in atherothrombosis.
1637,daf-16/foxo employs the chromatin remodeller swi/snf to promote stress resistance and longevity,organisms are constantly challenged by stresses and privations and require adaptive responses for their survival. the forkhead box o (foxo) transcription factor daf-16 (hereafter referred to as daf-16/foxo) is a central nexus in these responses  but despite its importance little is known about how it regulates its target genes. proteomic identification of daf-16/foxo-binding partners in caenorhabditis elegans and their subsequent functional evaluation by rna interference revealed several candidate daf-16/foxo cofactors  most notably the chromatin remodeller swi/snf. daf-16/foxo and swi/snf form a complex and globally co-localize at daf-16/foxo target promoters. we show that specifically for gene activation  daf-16/foxo depends on swi/snf  facilitating swi/snf recruitment to target promoters  to activate transcription by presumed remodelling of local chromatin. for the animal  this translates into an essential role for swi/snf in daf-16/foxo-mediated processes  in particular dauer formation  stress resistance and the promotion of longevity. thus  we give insight into the mechanisms of daf-16/foxo-mediated transcriptional regulation and establish a critical link between atp-dependent chromatin remodelling and lifespan regulation.
1639,endogenous bone marrow mscs are dynamic  fate-restricted participants in bone maintenance and regeneration.,mesenchymal stem cells (mscs) commonly defined by in vitro functions have entered clinical application despite little definition of their function in residence. here  we report genetic pulse-chase experiments that define osteoblastic cells as short-lived and nonreplicative  requiring replenishment from bone-marrow-derived  mx1(+) stromal cells with "msc" features. these cells respond to tissue stress and migrate to sites of injury  supplying new osteoblasts during fracture healing. single cell transplantation yielded progeny that both preserve progenitor function and differentiate into osteoblasts  producing new bone. they are capable of local and systemic translocation and serial transplantation. while these cells meet current definitions of mscs in vitro  they are osteolineage restricted in vivo in growing and adult animals. therefore  bone-marrow-derived mscs may be a heterogeneous population with the mx1(+) population  representing a highly dynamic and stress responsive stem/progenitor cell population of fate-restricted potential that feeds the high cell replacement demands of the adult skeleton.
1641,differential innate immune response programs in neuronal subtypes determine susceptibility to infection in the brain by positive stranded rna viruses,although susceptibility of neurons in the brain to microbial infection is a major determinant of clinical outcome  little is known about the molecular factors governing this vulnerability. here we show that two types of neurons from distinct brain regions showed differential permissivity to replication of several positive-stranded rna viruses. granule cell neurons of the cerebellum and cortical neurons from the cerebral cortex have unique innate immune programs that confer differential susceptibility to viral infection ex vivo and in vivo. by transducing cortical neurons with genes that were expressed more highly in granule cell neurons  we identified three interferon-stimulated genes (isgs; ifi27  irg1 and rsad2 (also known as viperin)) that mediated the antiviral effects against different neurotropic viruses. moreover  we found that the epigenetic state and microrna (mirna)-mediated regulation of isgs correlates with enhanced antiviral response in granule cell neurons. thus  neurons from evolutionarily distinct brain regions have unique innate immune signatures  which probably contribute to their relative permissiveness to infection.
1643,stepwise histone replacement by swr1 requires dual activation with histone h2a.z and canonical nucleosome,histone variant h2a.z-containing nucleosomes are incorporated at most eukaryotic promoters. this incorporation is mediated by the conserved swr1 complex  which replaces histone h2a in canonical nucleosomes with h2a.z in an atp-dependent manner. here  we show that promoter-proximal nucleosomes are highly heterogeneous for h2a.z in saccharomyces cerevisiae  with substantial representation of nucleosomes containing one  two  or zero h2a.z molecules. swr1-catalyzed h2a.z replacement in vitro occurs in a stepwise and unidirectional fashion  one h2a.z-h2b dimer at a time  producing heterotypic nucleosomes as intermediates and homotypic h2a.z nucleosomes as end products. the atpase activity of swr1 is specifically stimulated by h2a-containing nucleosomes without ensuing histone h2a eviction. remarkably  further addition of free h2a.z-h2b dimer leads to hyperstimulation of atpase activity  eviction of nucleosomal h2a-h2b  and deposition of h2a.z-h2b. these results suggest that the combination of h2a-containing nucleosome and free h2a.z-h2b dimer acting as both effector and substrate for swr1 governs the specificity and outcome of the replacement reaction.
1645,molecular pathways: induction of polyploidy as a novel differentiation therapy for leukemia.,differentiation therapy has emerged as a powerful way to target specific hematologic malignancies. one of the best examples is the use of all-trans retinoic acid (atra) in acute promyelocytic leukemia (apl)  which has significantly improved the outcome for patients with this specific form of acute myeloid leukemia (aml). in considering how differentiation therapy could be used in other forms of aml  we predicted that compounds that induce terminal differentiation of megakaryocytes would be effective therapies for the megakaryocytic form of aml  named acute megakaryocytic leukemia (amkl). we also speculated that such agents would reduce the burden of abnormal hematopoietic cells in primary myelofibrosis and alter the differentiation of megakaryocytes in myelodysplastic syndromes. using a high-throughput chemical screening approach  we identified small molecules that promoted many features of terminal megakaryocyte differentiation  including the induction of polyploidization  the process by which cells accumulate dna to 32n or greater. as the induction of polyploidization is an irreversible process  cells that enter this form of the cell cycle do not divide again. thus  this would be an effective way to reduce the tumor burden. clinical studies with polyploidy inducers  such as aurora kinase a inhibitors  are under way for a wide variety of malignancies  whereas trials specifically for amkl and pmf are in development. this novel form of differentiation therapy may be clinically available in the not-too-distant future. clin cancer res; 19(22); 6084-8. ©2013 aacr.
1647,unravelling mechanisms of p53-mediated tumour suppression,p53 is a crucial tumour suppressor that responds to diverse stress signals by orchestrating specific cellular responses  including transient cell cycle arrest  cellular senescence and apoptosis  which are all processes associated with tumour suppression. however  recent studies have challenged the relative importance of these canonical cellular responses for p53-mediated tumour suppression and have highlighted roles for p53 in modulating other cellular processes  including metabolism  stem cell maintenance  invasion and metastasis  as well as communication within the tumour microenvironment. in this opinion article  we discuss the roles of classical p53 functions  as well as emerging p53-regulated processes  in tumour suppression.
1649,heterogeneity underlies the emergence of egfrt790 wild-type clones following treatment of t790m-positive cancers with a third-generation egfr inhibitor.,unlabelled rociletinib is a third-generation egfr inhibitor active in lung cancers with t790m  the gatekeeper mutation underlying most first-generation egfr drug resistance. we biopsied patients at rociletinib progression to explore resistance mechanisms. among 12 patients with t790m-positive cancers at rociletinib initiation  six had t790-wild-type rociletinib-resistant biopsies. two t790-wild-type cancers underwent small cell lung cancer transformation; three t790m-positive cancers acquired egfr amplification. we documented t790-wild-type and t790m-positive clones coexisting within a single pre-rociletinib biopsy. the pretreatment fraction of t790m-positive cells affected response to rociletinib. longitudinal circulating tumor dna (ctdna) analysis revealed an increase in plasma egfr-activating mutation  and t790m heralded rociletinib resistance in some patients  whereas in others the activating mutation increased but t790m remained suppressed. together  these findings demonstrate the role of tumor heterogeneity when therapies targeting a singular resistance mechanism are used. to further improve outcomes  combination regimens that also target t790-wild-type clones are required. significance this report documents that half of t790m-positive egfr-mutant lung cancers treated with rociletinib are t790-wild-type upon progression  suggesting that t790-wild-type clones can emerge as the dominant source of resistance. we show that tumor heterogeneity has important clinical implications and that plasma ctdna analyses can sometimes predict emerging resistance mechanisms.
1651,acquired egfr c797s mutation mediates resistance to azd9291 in non–small cell lung cancer harboring egfr t790m,here we studied cell-free plasma dna (cfdna) collected from subjects with advanced lung cancer whose tumors had developed resistance to the epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) tyrosine kinase inhibitor (tki) azd9291. we first performed next-generation sequencing of cfdna from seven subjects and detected an acquired egfr c797s mutation in one; expression of this mutant egfr construct in a cell line rendered it resistant to azd9291. we then performed droplet digital pcr on serial cfdna specimens collected from 15 azd9291-treated subjects. all were positive for the t790m mutation before treatment  but upon developing azd9291 resistance three molecular subtypes emerged: six cases acquired the c797s mutation  five cases maintained the t790m mutation but did not acquire the c797s mutation and four cases lost the t790m mutation despite the presence of the underlying egfr activating mutation. our findings provide insight into the diversity of mechanisms through which tumors acquire resistance to azd9291 and highlight the need for therapies that are able to overcome resistance mediated by the egfr c797s mutation.
1653,focal contacts as mechanosensors: externally applied local mechanical force induces growth of focal contacts by an mdia1-dependent and rockindependent mechanism,the transition of cell–matrix adhesions from the initial punctate focal complexes into the mature elongated form  known as focal contacts  requires gtpase rho activity. in particular  activation of myosin ii–driven contractility by a rho target known as rho-associated kinase (rock) was shown to be essential for focal contact formation. to dissect the mechanism of rho-dependent induction of focal contacts and to elucidate the role of cell contractility  we applied mechanical force to vinculin-containing dot-like adhesions at the cell edge using a micropipette. local centripetal pulling led to local assembly and elongation of these structures and to their development into streak-like focal contacts  as revealed by the dynamics of green fluorescent protein–tagged vinculin or paxillin and interference reflection microscopy. inhibition of rho activity by c3 transferase suppressed this force-induced focal contact formation. however  constitutively active mutants of another rho target  the formin homology protein mdia1 (watanabe  n.  t. kato  a. fujita  t. ishizaki  and s. narumiya. 1999. nat. cell biol. 1:136–143)  were sufficient to restore force-induced focal contact formation in c3 transferase-treated cells. force-induced formation of the focal contacts still occurred in cells subjected to myosin ii and rock inhibition. thus  as long as mdia1 is active  external tension force bypasses the requirement for rock-mediated myosin ii contractility in the induction of focal contacts. our experiments show that integrin-containing focal complexes behave as individual mechanosensors exhibiting directional assembly in response to local force.
1655,‘short stature in children - a questionnaire for parents’: a new instrument for growth disorder-specific psychosocial adaptation in children,recent studies report comparable psychosocial adaptation in children with or without a growth disorder. these findings may be due to a general lack of sensitive and specific techniques for analysing and comparing their respective qualities of life. in this study we present a new questionnaire for parents of short-statured children. we suggest both a qualitative and quantitative approach providing specific information about the relative extent of individual stress factors and sources of help. the parents of 442 children with growth retardation resulting from different aetiologies completed the questionnaire. aprincipal component analysis of the scaled items revealed four dimensions of psychosocial adaptation: suffering  future anxieties  behavioural problems and coping efforts. the index of internal consistency reliability was sufficient for all scales. the comparison of two selected growth disorder groups (achondroplasia versus growth hormone deficiency) demonstrated growth disorder-specific but not very different profiles of psychosocial adaptation. the qualitative analysis revealed a shift in the stress factor patterns (achondroplasia  more physical restrictions). these findings give evidence for both the specificity and construct validity of the new instrument. therefore  we may conclude that this questionnaire is a helpful method in attaining growth disorder-specific information about individual stress factors  resources and psychosocial adaptation.
1657,nuclear rnai maintains heritable gene silencing in caenorhabditis elegans.,rna interference (rnai) is heritable in caenorhabditis elegans; the progeny of c. elegans exposed to dsrna inherit the ability to silence genes that were targeted by rnai in the previous generation. here we investigate the mechanism of rnai inheritance in c. elegans. we show that exposure of animals to dsrna results in the heritable expression of sirnas and the heritable deposition of histone 3 lysine 9 methylation (h3k9me) marks in progeny. sirnas are detectable before the appearance of h3k9me marks  suggesting that chromatin marks are not directly inherited but  rather  reestablished in inheriting progeny. interestingly  h3k9me marks appear more prominently in inheriting progeny than in animals directly exposed to dsrna  suggesting that germ-line transmission of silencing signals may enhance the efficiency of sirna-directed h3k9me. finally  we show that the nuclear rnai (nrde) pathway maintains heritable rnai silencing in c. elegans. the argonaute (ago) nrde-3 associates with heritable sirnas and  acting in conjunction with the nuclear rnai factors nrde-1  nrde-2  and nrde-4  promotes sirna expression in inheriting progeny. these results demonstrate that sirna expression is heritable in c. elegans and define an rnai pathway that promotes the maintenance of rnai silencing and sirna expression in the progeny of animals exposed to dsrna.
1659,human aneuploidy: mechanisms and new insights into an age-old problem,trisomic and monosomic (aneuploid) embryos account for at least 10% of human pregnancies and  for women nearing the end of their reproductive lifespan  the incidence may exceed 50%. the errors that lead to aneuploidy almost always occur in the oocyte but  despite intensive investigation  the underlying molecular basis has remained elusive. recent studies of humans and model organisms have shed new light on the complexity of meiotic defects  providing evidence that the age-related increase in errors in the human female is not attributable to a single factor but to an interplay between unique features of oogenesis and a host of endogenous and exogenous factors.
1661,vitamin d deficiency in postmenopausal women - biological correlates.,introduction low vitamin d (vd) is associated with secondary hyperparathyroidism and both contribute to deleterious consequences (reduced bone mineral density (bmd)  risk of fractures and falls). objective to study the vd status and biological correlates in a group of postmenopausal women. material and methods we studied 123 postmenopausal women evaluated in the c.i.parhon national institute of endocrinology  the pituitary and neuroendocrine diseases department. all cases had been reffered for the evaluation of bmd by the general practitioner. the evaluation included serum measurements of total and ionised calcium  phosphorus  alkaline phosphatase (alp)  25 hydroxi vitamind (25ohd)  parathyroid hormone (pth)  osteocalcin  betacrosslaps. central dxa osteodensitometry was performed. results 91.9% of cases had 25ohd serum levels below 30 ng/ml (74.8% had vd deficiency  17.1% vd insufficiency). only 8.1% had sufficient vd levels. a history of fragility fractures was present in 45.83% of the osteoporotic patients  27.27% of the osteopenic ones and 15.15% of the women with normal bmd. 32 women (26%) were on vd supplementation at the time of evaluation. among these subjects  the 25ohd level was significantly higher in those with prior fragility fractures (p=0.018) and osteoporosis (p=0.008). 25ohd concentration negatively correlated with pth  alkaline phosphatase (alp) and osteocalcin. the bone markers evaluated had a significant inverse correlation with the radius bmd  t and z scores (p=0.004). 27.17% of the cases with vd deficiency had secondary hyperparathyroidism. the 25ohd concentration was significantly lower in these cases (p=0.000). conclusions vd insufficiency is widely prevalent but still under-recognized and under-treated  possibly leading to secondary hyperparathyroidism. the compliance to vd supplementation is lower in subjects without osteoporosis or fragility fractures. primary prevention measures should be more actively implemented.
1663,senescent cells  tumor suppression  and organismal aging: good citizens  bad neighbors,cells from organisms with renewable tissues can permanently withdraw from the cell cycle in response to diverse stress  including dysfunctional telomeres  dna damage  strong mitogenic signals  and disrupted chromatin. this response  termed cellular senescence  is controlled by the p53 and rb tumor suppressor proteins and constitutes a potent anticancer mechanism. nonetheless  senescent cells acquire phenotypic changes that may contribute to aging and certain age-related diseases  including late-life cancer. thus  the senescence response may be antagonistically pleiotropic  promoting early-life survival by curtailing the development of cancer but eventually limiting longevity as dysfunctional senescent cells accumulate.
1665,quercetin attenuates vascular calcification by inhibiting oxidative stress and mitochondrial fission.,vascular calcification is a strong independent predictor of increased cardiovascular morbidity and mortality and has a high prevalence among patients with chronic kidney disease. the present study investigated the effects of quercetin on vascular calcification caused by oxidative stress and abnormal mitochondrial dynamics both in vitro and in vivo. calcifying vascular smooth muscle cells (vsmcs) treated with inorganic phosphate (pi) exhibited mitochondrial dysfunction  as demonstrated by decreased mitochondrial potential and atp production. disruption of mitochondrial structural integrity was also observed in a rat model of adenine-induced aortic calcification. increased production of reactive oxygen species  enhanced expression and phosphorylation of drp1  and excessive mitochondrial fragmentation were also observed in pi-treated vsmcs. these effects were accompanied by mitochondria-dependent apoptotic events  including release of cytochrome c from the mitochondria into the cytosol and subsequent activation of caspase-3. quercetin was shown to block pi-induced apoptosis and calcification of vsmcs by inhibiting oxidative stress and decreasing mitochondrial fission by inhibiting the expression and phosphorylation of drp1. quercetin also significantly ameliorated adenine-induced aortic calcification in rats. in summary  our findings suggest that quercetin attenuates calcification by reducing apoptosis of vsmcs by blocking oxidative stress and inhibiting mitochondrial fission.
1667,a versatile zero background t-vector system for gene cloning and functional genomics.,with the recent availability of complete genomic sequences of many organisms  high-throughput and cost-efficient systems for gene cloning and functional analysis are in great demand. although site-specific recombination-based cloning systems  such as gateway cloning technology  are extremely useful for efficient transfer of dna fragments into multiple destination vectors  the two-step cloning process is time consuming and expensive. here  we report a zero background ta cloning system that provides simple and high-efficiency direct cloning of pcr-amplified dna fragments with almost no self-ligation. the improved t-vector system takes advantage of the restriction enzyme xcmi to generate a t-overhang after digestion and the negative selection marker gene ccdb to eliminate the self-ligation background after transformation. we demonstrate the feasibility and flexibility of the technology by developing a set of transient and stable transformation vectors for constitutive gene expression  gene silencing  protein tagging  protein subcellular localization detection  and promoter fragment activity analysis in plants. because the system can be easily adapted for developing specialized expression vectors for other organisms  zero background ta provides a general  cost-efficient  and high-throughput platform that complements the gateway cloning system for gene cloning and functional genomics.
1669,dynamics of cryptococcus neoformans-macrophage interactions reveal that fungal background influences outcome during cryptococcal meningoencephalitis in humans,unlabelled cryptococcosis is a multifaceted fungal infection with variable clinical presentation and outcome. as in many infectious diseases  this variability is commonly assigned to host factors. to investigate whether the diversity of cryptococcus neoformans clinical (clincn) isolates influences the interaction with host cells and the clinical outcome  we developed and validated new quantitative assays using flow cytometry and j774 macrophages. the phenotype of clincn-macrophage interactions was determined for 54 clincn isolates recovered from cerebrospinal fluids (csf) from 54 unrelated patients  based on phagocytic index (pi) and 2-h and 48-h intracellular proliferation indexes (iph2 and iph48  respectively). their phenotypes were highly variable. isolates harboring low pi/low iph2 and high pi/high iph2 values were associated with nonsterilization of csf at week 2 and death at month 3  respectively. a subset of 9 clincn isolates with different phenotypes exhibited variable virulence in mice and displayed intramacrophagic expression levels of the lac1  app1  vad1  ipc1  plb1  and cox1 genes that were highly variable among the isolates and correlated with iph48. variation in the expression of virulence factors is thus shown here to depend on not only experimental conditions but also fungal background. these results suggest that  in addition to host factors  the patient's outcome can be related to fungal determinants. deciphering the molecular events involved in c. neoformans fate inside host cells is crucial for our understanding of cryptococcosis pathogenesis. importance cryptococcus neoformans is a life-threatening human fungal pathogen that is responsible for an estimated 1 million cases of meningitis/year  predominantly in hiv-infected patients. the diversity of infecting isolates is well established  as is the importance of the host factors. interaction with macrophages is a major step in cryptococcosis pathogenesis. how the diversity of clinical isolates influences macrophages' interactions and impacts cryptococcosis outcome in humans remains to be elucidated. using new assays  we uncovered how yeast-macrophage interactions were highly variable among clinical isolates and found an association between specific behaviors and cryptococcosis outcome. in addition  gene expression of some virulence factors and intracellular proliferation were correlated. while many studies have established that virulence factors can be differentially expressed as a function of experimental conditions  our study demonstrates that  under the same experimental conditions  clinical isolates behaved differently  a diversity that could participate in the variable outcome of infection in humans.
1671,lipoxin a4 analogs attenuate induction of intestinal epithelial proinflammatory gene expression and reduce the severity of dextran sodium sulfate-induced colitis.,the anti-inflammatory eicosanoid lipoxin a(4) (lxa(4))  aspirin-triggered 15-epi-lxa(4)  and their stable analogs down-regulate il-8 secretion and subsequent recruitment of neutrophils by intestinal epithelia. in an effort to elucidate the mechanism by which these lipid mediators modulate cellular proinflammatory programs  we surveyed global epithelial gene expression using cdna microarrays. lxa(4) analog alone did not significantly affect expression of any of the >7000 genes analyzed. however  lxa(4) analog pretreatment attenuated induction of approximately 50% of the 125 genes up-regulated in response to the gastroenteritis-causing pathogen salmonella typhimurium. a major subset of genes whose induction was reduced by lxa(4) analog pretreatment is regulated by nf-kappab  suggesting that lxa(4) analog was influencing the activity of this transcription factor. nanomolar concentrations of lxa(4) analog reduced nf-kappab-mediated transcriptional activation in a lxa(4) receptor-dependent manner and inhibited induced degradation of ikappabalpha. lxa(4) analog did not affect earlier stimulus-induced signaling events that lead to ikappabalpha degradation  such as s. typhimurium-induced epithelial ca(2+) mobilization or tnf-alpha-induced phosphorylation of ikappabalpha. to establish the in vivo relevance of these findings  we examined whether lxa(4) analogs could affect intestinal inflammation in vivo using the mouse model of dss-induced inflammatory colitis. oral administration of lxa(4) analog (15-epi-16-para-fluoro-phenoxy-lxa(4)  10 microg/day) significantly reduced the weight loss  hematochezia  and mortality that characterize dss colitis. thus  lxa(4) analog-mediated down-regulation of proinflammatory gene expression via inhibition of the nf-kappab pathway can be therapeutic for diseases characterized by mucosal inflammation.
1673,intracoronary autologous cardiac progenitor cell transfer in patients with hypoplastic left heart syndrome: the ticap prospective phase 1 controlled trial.,rationale hypoplastic left heart syndrome (hlhs) remains a lethal congenital cardiac defect. recent studies have suggested that intracoronary administration of autologous cardiosphere-derived cells (cdcs) may improve ventricular function. objective the aim of this study was to test whether intracoronary delivery of cdcs is feasible and safe in patients with hypoplastic left heart syndrome. methods and results between january 5  2011  and january 16  2012  14 patients (1.8±1.5 years) were prospectively assigned to receive intracoronary infusion of autologous cdcs 33.4±8.1 days after staged procedures (n=7)  followed by 7 controls with standard palliation alone. the primary end point was to assess the safety  and the secondary end point included the preliminary efficacy to verify the right ventricular ejection fraction improvements between baseline and 3 months. manufacturing and intracoronary delivery of cdcs were feasible  and no serious adverse events were reported within the 18-month follow-up. patients treated with cdcs showed right ventricular ejection fraction improvement from baseline to 3-month follow-up (46.9%±4.6% to 52.1%±2.4%; p=0.008). compared with controls at 18 months  cardiac mri analysis of cdc-treated patients showed a higher right ventricular ejection fraction (31.5%±6.8% versus 40.4%±7.6%; p=0.049)  improved somatic growth (p=0.0005)  reduced heart failure status (p=0.003)  and lower incidence of coil occlusion for collaterals (p=0.007). conclusions intracoronary infusion of autologous cdcs seems to be feasible and safe in children with hypoplastic left heart syndrome after staged surgery. large phase 2 trials are warranted to examine the potential effects of cardiac function improvements and the long-term benefits of clinical outcomes. clinical trial registration url http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. unique identifier: nct01273857.
1675,single-construct polycistronic doxycycline-inducible vectors improve direct cardiac reprogramming and can be used to identify the critical timing of transgene expression,direct reprogramming is a promising approach in regenerative medicine. overexpression of the cardiac transcription factors gata4  mef2c  and tbx5 (gmt) or gmt plus hand2 (ghmt) directly reprogram fibroblasts into cardiomyocyte-like cells (icms). however  the critical timing of transgene expression and the molecular mechanisms for cardiac reprogramming remain unclear. the conventional doxycycline (dox)-inducible temporal transgene expression systems require simultaneous transduction of two vectors (plvx-rtta/plvx-cdna) harboring the reverse tetracycline transactivator (rtta) and the tetracycline response element (tre)-controlled transgene  respectively  leading to inefficient cardiac reprogramming. herein  we developed a single-construct-based polycistronic dox-inducible vector (pdox-cdna) expressing both the rtta and tre-controlled transgenes. fluorescence activated cell sorting (facs) analyses  quantitative rt-pcr  and immunostaining revealed that pdox-gmt increased cardiac reprogramming three-fold compared to the conventional plvx-rtta/plvx-gmt. after four weeks  pdox-gmt-induced icms expressed multiple cardiac genes  produced sarcomeric structures  and beat spontaneously. co-transduction of pdox-hand2 with retroviral pmx-gmt increased cardiac reprogramming three-fold compared to pmx-gmt alone. temporal dox administration revealed that hand2 transgene expression is critical during the first two weeks of cardiac reprogramming. microarray analyses demonstrated that hand2 represses cell cycle-promoting genes and enhances cardiac reprogramming. thus  we have developed an efficient temporal transgene expression system  which could be invaluable in the study of cardiac reprogramming.
1677,g1 arrest and differentiation can occur independently of rb family function,the ability of progenitor cells to exit the cell cycle is essential for proper embryonic development and homeostasis  but the mechanisms governing cell cycle exit are still not fully understood. here  we tested the requirement for the retinoblastoma (rb) protein and its family members p107 and p130 in g0/g1 arrest and differentiation in mammalian cells. we found that rb family triple knockout (tko) mouse embryos survive until days 9-11 of gestation. strikingly  some tko cells  including in epithelial and neural lineages  are able to exit the cell cycle in g0/g1 and differentiate in teratomas and in culture. this ability of tko cells to arrest in g0/g1 is associated with the repression of key e2f target genes. thus  g1 arrest is not always dependent on rb family members  which illustrates the robustness of cell cycle regulatory networks during differentiation and allows for the identification of candidate pathways to inhibit the expansion of cancer cells with mutations in the rb pathway.
1679,mir-1-mediated paracrine effect of cancer-associated fibroblasts on lung cancer cell proliferation and chemoresistance.,lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related mortality in humans worldwide. moreover  the overall 5-year survival rate is only 15%. pathologically almost 80% of all lung cancer cases are non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc). cancer-associated fibroblasts (cafs) have been found to exist in a large number of nsclcs. cafs have been proven to promote tumor progression  metastasis and resistance to therapy through paracrine effects in most solid tumors. in the present study  firstly we isolated cafs from patient tissues and demonstrated that they promoted cell proliferation and chemoresistance to cisplatin in the lung cancer cell lines a549 and 95d in a paracrine manner. secondly  using elisa and quantative pcr  we found that a higher amount of stromal cell-derived factor 1 (sdf-1) existed in the cafs rather than that observed in the normal fibroblasts (nfs). thirdly  we detected that sdf-1 facilitated lung cancer cell proliferation and drug resistance via the cxcr4-mediated signaling pathway which involved nf-κb and bcl-xl. moreover  we also confirmed that the expression level of sdf-1 in the cafs was negatively regulated by microrna mir-1 through microrna overexpression and quantitative pcr. overall  our data provide one explanation for the effects of cafs on lung cancer cells. meanwhile  our results also suggest cafs as a potential therapeutic target in tumor treatment.
1681,long non-coding rnas as novel players in β cell function and type 1 diabetes,background long non-coding rnas (lncrnas) are a sub-class within non-coding rna repertoire that have emerged as crucial regulators of the gene expression in various pathophysiological conditions. lncrnas display remarkable versatility and wield their functions through interactions with rna  dna  or proteins. accumulating body of evidence based on multitude studies has highlighted the role of lncrnas in many autoimmune and inflammatory diseases  including type 1 diabetes (t1d). this review highlights emerging roles of lncrnas in immune and islet β cell function as well as some of the challenges and opportunities in understanding the pathogenesis of t1d and its complications. conclusion we accentuate that the lncrnas within t1d-loci regions in consort with regulatory variants and enhancer clusters orchestrate the chromatin remodeling in β cells and thereby act as cis/trans-regulatory determinants of islet cell transcriptional programs.
1683,ernas are required for p53-dependent enhancer activity and gene transcription.,binding within or nearby target genes involved in cell proliferation and survival enables the p53 tumor suppressor gene to regulate their transcription and cell-cycle progression. using genome-wide chromatin-binding profiles  we describe binding of p53 also to regions located distantly from any known p53 target gene. interestingly  many of these regions possess conserved p53-binding sites and all known hallmarks of enhancer regions. we demonstrate that these p53-bound enhancer regions (p53bers) indeed contain enhancer activity and interact intrachromosomally with multiple neighboring genes to convey long-distance p53-dependent transcription regulation. furthermore  p53bers produce  in a p53-dependent manner  enhancer rnas (ernas) that are required for efficient transcriptional enhancement of interacting target genes and induction of a p53-dependent cell-cycle arrest. thus  our results ascribe transcription enhancement activity to p53 with the capacity to regulate multiple genes from a single genomic binding site. moreover  erna production from p53bers is required for efficient p53 transcription enhancement.
1685,vps22/eap30 in escrt-ii mediates endosomal sorting of growth factor and chemokine receptors destined for lysosomal degradation.,the ubiquitin-binding protein hrs and endosomal sorting complex required for transport (escrt)-i and escrt-iii are involved in sorting endocytosed and ubiquitinated receptors to lysosomes for degradation and efficient termination of signaling. in this study  we have investigated the role of the escrt-ii subunit vps22/eap30 in degradative protein sorting of ubiquitinated receptors. vps22 transiently expressed in hela cells was detected in endosomes containing endocytosed epidermal growth factor receptors (egfrs) as well as hrs and escrt-i and escrt-iii. depletion of vps22 by small interfering rna  which was accompanied by decreased levels of other escrt-ii subunits  greatly reduced degradation of egfr and its ligand egf as well as the chemokine receptor cxcr4. egfr accumulated on the limiting membranes of early endosomes and aberrantly small multivesicular bodies in vps22-depleted cells. phosphorylation and nuclear translocation of extracellular-signal-regulated kinase1/2 downstream of the egf-activated receptor were sustained by depletion of hrs or the escrt-i subunit tsg101. in contrast  this was not the case when vps22 was depleted. these results indicate an important role for vps22 in ligand-induced egfr and cxcr4 turnover and suggest that termination of egf signaling occurs prior to escrt-ii engagement.
1687,metabolic cycling in single yeast cells from unsynchronized steady-state populations limited on glucose or phosphate.,oscillations in patterns of expression of a large fraction of yeast genes are associated with the "metabolic cycle " usually seen only in prestarved  continuous cultures of yeast. we used fish of mrna in individual cells to test the hypothesis that these oscillations happen in single cells drawn from unsynchronized cultures growing exponentially in chemostats. gene-expression data from synchronized cultures were used to predict coincident appearance of mrnas from pairs of genes in the unsynchronized cells. quantitative analysis of the fish results shows that individual unsynchronized cells growing slowly because of glucose limitation or phosphate limitation show the predicted oscillations. we conclude that the yeast metabolic cycle is an intrinsic property of yeast metabolism and does not depend on either synchronization or external limitation of growth by the carbon source.
1689,immune complex relay by subcapsular sinus macrophages and non-cognate b cells drives antibody affinity maturation,subcapsular sinus (scs) macrophages capture antigens from lymph and present them intact for b cell encounter and follicular delivery. however  the properties of scs macrophages are poorly defined. here we show scs macrophage development depended on lymphotoxin-alpha1beta2  and the cells had low lysosomal enzyme expression and retained opsonized antigens on their surface. intravital imaging revealed immune complexes moving along macrophage processes into the follicle. moreover  noncognate b cells relayed antigen opsonized by newly produced antibodies from the subcapsular region to the germinal center  and affinity maturation was impaired when this transport process was disrupted. thus  we characterize scs macrophages as specialized antigen-presenting cells functioning at the apex of an antigen transport chain that promotes humoral immunity.
1691,gaas nanopillar-array solar cells employing in situ surface passivation,arrays of iii-v direct-bandgap semiconductor nanopillars represent promising photovoltaic candidates due to their inherent high optical absorption coefficients and minimized reflection arising from light trapping  efficient charge collection in the radial direction and the ability to synthesize them on low-cost platforms. however  the increased surface area results in surface states that hamper the power conversion efficiency. here  we report the first demonstration of gaas nanopillar-array photovoltaics employing epitaxial passivation with air mass 1.5 global power conversion efficiencies of 6.63%. high-bandgap epitaxial ingap shells are grown in situ and cap the radial p-n junctions to alleviate surface-state effects. under light  the photovoltaic devices exhibit open-circuit voltages of 0.44 v  short-circuit current densities of 24.3 ma cm(-2) and fill factors of 62% with high external quantum efficiencies >70% across the spectral regime of interest. a novel titanium/indium tin oxide annealed alloy is exploited as transparent ohmic anode.
1693,the somatic genomic landscape of glioblastoma,we describe the landscape of somatic genomic alterations based on multidimensional and comprehensive characterization of more than 500 glioblastoma tumors (gbms). we identify several novel mutated genes as well as complex rearrangements of signature receptors  including egfr and pdgfra. tert promoter mutations are shown to correlate with elevated mrna expression  supporting a role in telomerase reactivation. correlative analyses confirm that the survival advantage of the proneural subtype is conferred by the g-cimp phenotype  and mgmt dna methylation may be a predictive biomarker for treatment response only in classical subtype gbm. integrative analysis of genomic and proteomic profiles challenges the notion of therapeutic inhibition of a pathway as an alternative to inhibition of the target itself. these data will facilitate the discovery of therapeutic and diagnostic target candidates  the validation of research and clinical observations and the generation of unanticipated hypotheses that can advance our molecular understanding of this lethal cancer.
1695,alterations in microrna-124 and ampa receptors contribute to social behavioral deficits in frontotemporal dementia,neurodegenerative diseases  such as frontotemporal dementia (ftd)  are often associated with behavioral deficits  but the underlying anatomical and molecular causes remain poorly understood. here we show that forebrain-specific expression of ftd-associated mutant chmp2b in mice causes several age-dependent neurodegenerative phenotypes  including social behavioral impairments. the social deficits were accompanied by a change in ampa receptor (ampar) composition  leading to an imbalance between ca(2+)-permeable and ca(2+)-impermeable ampars. expression of most ampar subunits was regulated by the brain-enriched microrna mir-124  whose abundance was markedly decreased in the superficial layers of the cerebral cortex of mice expressing the mutant chmp2b. we found similar changes in mir-124 and ampar levels in the frontal cortex and induced pluripotent stem cell-derived neurons from subjects with behavioral variant ftd. moreover  ectopic mir-124 expression in the medial prefrontal cortex of mutant mice decreased ampar levels and partially rescued behavioral deficits. knockdown of the ampar subunit gria2 also alleviated social impairments. our results identify a previously undescribed mechanism involving mir-124 and ampars in regulating social behavior in ftd and suggest a potential therapeutic avenue.
1697,the ideal recommendations and urological innovation,like other branches of surgery  urology has encountered major challenges in aligning the research processes by which new interventions are assessed with the principles of evidence-based medicine. this article explains the ideal framework and recommendations and illustrates how they might affect the evaluation of current controversial urological procedures. from an inside perspective  we provide an overview of the efforts of the ideal working group to date with special emphasis on the field of urology. there are clear differences between drugs and interventions in the natural history of innovations. since the conventional framework for conducting trials of new treatments is largely based on the former  the evaluation of surgical innovations using the same template can encounter significant problems. difficulties in performing randomized controlled trials of surgical techniques and the persistence of the case series as an important feature of the scientific literature have been the two most controversial aspects of this mismatch between the subject of research and the methodology used. the ideal framework provides a description of the process of innovation and development for surgical trials  and the associated recommendations provide a suggested alternative approach to developing study designs  which are appropriate for the specific problems of new techniques. ideal provides a new framework for surgical innovation that was developed with broad stakeholder input from the surgical community and is expected to have a transformative impact on the way that urologists perform clinical research.
1699,human papillomavirus testing for the detection of high-grade cervical intraepithelial neoplasia and cancer: final results of the pobascam randomised controlled trial.,background human papillomavirus (hpv) testing is more sensitive for the detection of high-grade cervical lesions than is cytology  but detection of hpv by dna screening in two screening rounds 5 years apart has not been assessed. the aim of this study was to assess whether hpv dna testing in the first screen decreases detection of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin) grade 3 or worse  cin grade 2 or worse  and cervical cancer in the second screening. methods in this randomised trial  women aged 29-56 years participating in the cervical screening programme in the netherlands were randomly assigned to receive hpv dna (gp5+/6+-pcr method) and cytology co-testing or cytology testing alone  from january  1999  to september  2002. randomisation (in a 1:1 ratio) was done with computer-generated random numbers after the cervical specimen had been taken. at the second screening 5 years later  hpv dna and cytology co-testing was done in both groups; researchers were masked to the patient's assignment. the primary endpoint was the number of cin grade 3 or worse detected. analysis was done by intention to screen. the trial is now finished and is registered  number isrctn20781131. findings 22 420 women were randomly assigned to the intervention group and 22 518 to the control group; 19 999 in the intervention group and 20 106 in the control group were eligible for analysis at the first screen. at the second screen  19 579 women in the intervention group and 19 731 in the control group were eligible  of whom 16 750 and 16 743  respectively  attended the second screen. in the second round  cin grade 3 or worse was less common in the intervention group than in the control group (88 of 19 579 in the intervention group vs 122 of 19 731 in the control group; relative risk 0·73  95% ci 0·55-0·96; p=0·023). cervical cancer was also less common in the intervention group than in the control group (four of 19 579 in the intervention group vs 14 of 19 731; 0·29  0·10-0·87; p=0·031). in the baseline round  detection of cin grade 3 or worse did not differ significantly between groups (171 of 19 999 vs 150 of 20 106; 1·15  0·92-1·43; p=0·239) but was significantly more common in women with normal cytology (34 of 19 286 vs 12 of 19 373; 2·85  1·47-5·49; p=0·001). furthermore  significantly more cases of cin grade 2 or worse were detected in the intervention group than in the control group (267 of 19 999 vs 215 of 20 106; 1·25  1·05-1·50; p=0·015). in the second screen  fewer hpv16-positive cin grade 3 or worse were detected in the intervention group than in the control group (17 of 9481 vs 35 of 9354; 0·48  0·27-0·85; p=0·012); detection of non-hpv16-positive cin grade 3 or worse did not differ between groups (25 of 9481 vs 25 of 9354; 0·99  0·57-1·72; p=1·00). the cumulative detection of cin grade 3 or worse and cin grade 2 or worse did not differ significantly between study arms  neither for the whole study group (cin grade 3 or worse: 259 of 19 999 vs 272 of 20 106; 0·96  0·81-1·14  p=0·631; cin grade 2 or worse: 427 of 19 999 vs 399 of 20 106; 1·08  0·94-1·24; p=0·292)  nor for subgroups of women invited for the first time (cin grade 3 or worse in women aged 29-33 years: 102 of 3139 vs 105 of 3128; 0·97  0·74-1·27; cin grade 2 or worse in women aged 29-33 years: 153 of 3139 vs 151 of 3128; 1·01  0·81-1·26; cin grade 3 or worse in women aged 34-56 years: 157 of 16 860 vs 167 of 16 978; 0·95  0·76-1·18; cin grade 2 or worse in women aged 34-56 years: 274 of 16 860 vs 248 of 16 978; 1·11  0·94-1·32). interpretation implementation of hpv dna testing in cervical screening leads to earlier detection of clinically relevant cin grade 2 or worse  which when adequately treated  improves protection against cin grade 3 or worse and cervical cancer. early detection of high-grade cervical legions caused by hpv16 was a major component of this benefit. our results lend support to the use of hpv dna testing for all women aged 29 years and older. funding zorg onderzoek nederland (netherlands organisation for health research and development).
1701,igf2 is parentally imprinted during human embryogenesis and in the beckwith–wiedemann syndrome,the phenomenon of parental imprinting involves the preferential expression of one parental allele of a subset of chromosomal genes and has so far only been documented in the mouse. we show here  by exploiting sequence polymorphisms in exon nine of the human insulin–like growth factor 2 (igf2) gene  that only the paternally–inherited allele is active in embryonic and extra–embryonic cells from first trimester pregnancies. in addition  only the paternal allele is expressed in tissues from a patient who suffered from beckwith–wiedemann syndrome. thus the parental imprinting of igf2 appears to be evolutionarily conserved from mouse to man and has implications for the generation of the beckwith–wiedemann syndrome.
1703,lxr-dependent gene expression is important for macrophage survival and the innate immune response,the liver x receptors (lxrs) are nuclear receptors with established roles in the regulation of lipid metabolism. we now show that lxr signaling not only regulates macrophage cholesterol metabolism but also impacts antimicrobial responses. mice lacking lxrs are highly susceptible to infection with the intracellular bacteria listeria monocytogenes (lm). bone marrow transplant studies point to altered macrophage function as the major determinant of susceptibility. lxr-null macrophages undergo accelerated apoptosis when challenged with lm and exhibit defective bacterial clearance in vivo. these defects result  at least in part  from loss of regulation of the antiapoptotic factor spalpha  a direct target for regulation by lxralpha. expression of lxralpha or spalpha in macrophages inhibits apoptosis in the setting of lm infection. our results demonstrate that lxr-dependent gene expression plays an unexpected role in innate immunity and suggest that common nuclear receptor pathways mediate macrophage responses to modified lipoproteins and intracellular pathogens.
1705,setd2: an epigenetic modifier with tumor suppressor functionality,in the past decade important progress has been made in our understanding of the epigenetic regulatory machinery. it has become clear that genetic aberrations in multiple epigenetic modifier proteins are associated with various types of cancer. moreover  targeting the epigenome has emerged as a novel tool to treat cancer patients. recently  the first drugs have been reported that specifically target setd2-negative tumors. in this review we discuss the studies on the associated protein  set domain containing 2 (setd2)  a histone modifier for which mutations have only recently been associated with cancer development. our review starts with the structural characteristics of setd2 and extends to its corresponding function by combining studies on setd2 function in yeast  drosophila  caenorhabditis elegans  mice  and humans. setd2 is now generally known as the single human gene responsible for trimethylation of lysine 36 of histone h3 (h3k36). h3k36me3 readers that recruit protein complexes to carry out specific processes  including transcription elongation  rna processing  and dna repair  determine the impact of this histone modification. finally  we describe the prevalence of setd2-inactivating mutations in cancer  with the highest frequency in clear cell renal cell cancer  and explore how setd2-inactivation might contribute to tumor development.
1707,plasma homocysteine is a risk factor for recurrent vascular events in young patients with an ischaemic stroke or tia,young patients with an ischaemic stroke or transient ischaemic attack (tia) often have no vascular risk factors. hyperhomocysteinaemia is an established risk factor for stroke in elderly patients but it is uncertain whether it is also important for the prognosis of young ischaemic stroke and tia patients. we examined the possible effect of the plasma homocysteine level on the risk of recurrent vascular events in patients between 18 and 45 years of age. the study population consisted of 161 consecutive patients with a recent cerebral infarction or tia. data on the primary event and the homocysteine level were collected retrospectively from hospital records. general practitioners and patients were contacted by telephone to record vascular events and the type of medication used during the follow–up period. vascular events included cerebral infarction  tia  pulmonary embolism  venous thrombosis  myocardial infarction and peripheral arterial disease. a kaplan- meier curve showed a dose effect relationship between event-free survival time and tertiles of the homocysteine level (log rank statistic 5.91; p = 0.05). the cox hazard ratio  after adjustment for homocysteine lowering treatment  was 1.7 (95 % ci  1.1 to 2.8) for any vascular outcome event  1.9 (95% ci  1.1 to 3.0) for arterial outcome events and 1.8 (95 % ci  1.1 to 2.9) for cerebral outcome events. in spite of our small number of outcome events we found a significant association at the 95% confidence level between homocysteine level and the risk of recurrent vascular events in young patients with an ischaemic stroke or tia. the association is of the same magnitude as in elderly people.
1709,sugar-sweetened beverages  weight gain  and incidence of type 2 diabetes in young and middle-aged women.,context sugar-sweetened beverages like soft drinks and fruit punches contain large amounts of readily absorbable sugars and may contribute to weight gain and an increased risk of type 2 diabetes  but these relationships have been minimally addressed in adults. objective to examine the association between consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages and weight change and risk of type 2 diabetes in women. design  setting  and participants prospective cohort analyses conducted from 1991 to 1999 among women in the nurses' health study ii. the diabetes analysis included 91 249 women free of diabetes and other major chronic diseases at baseline in 1991. the weight change analysis included 51 603 women for whom complete dietary information and body weight were ascertained in 1991  1995  and 1999. we identified 741 incident cases of confirmed type 2 diabetes during 716 300 person-years of follow-up. main outcome measures weight gain and incidence of type 2 diabetes. results those with stable consumption patterns had no difference in weight gain  but weight gain over a 4-year period was highest among women who increased their sugar-sweetened soft drink consumption from 1 or fewer drinks per week to 1 or more drinks per day (multivariate-adjusted means  4.69 kg for 1991 to 1995 and 4.20 kg for 1995 to 1999) and was smallest among women who decreased their intake (1.34 and 0.15 kg for the 2 periods  respectively) after adjusting for lifestyle and dietary confounders. increased consumption of fruit punch was also associated with greater weight gain compared with decreased consumption. after adjustment for potential confounders  women consuming 1 or more sugar-sweetened soft drinks per day had a relative risk [rr] of type 2 diabetes of 1.83 (95% confidence interval [ci]  1.42-2.36; p<.001 for trend) compared with those who consumed less than 1 of these beverages per month. similarly  consumption of fruit punch was associated with increased diabetes risk (rr for > or =1 drink per day compared with <1 drink per month  2.00; 95% ci  1.33-3.03; p =.001). conclusion higher consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages is associated with a greater magnitude of weight gain and an increased risk for development of type 2 diabetes in women  possibly by providing excessive calories and large amounts of rapidly absorbable sugars.
1711,preoperative statin treatment reduces systemic inflammatory response and myocardial damage in cardiac surgery.,objective to determine if preoperative statin treatment is associated with a reduction in systemic inflammatory response (sir) and myocardial damage markers following cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass (cpb). methods we study a prospective cohort of 138 patients who underwent coronary and valvular surgery with cpb. we differentiate two study groups: patients with (group a  n=72) or without (group b  n=66) statins. plasma levels of pro-inflammatory interleukins (tumour necrosis factor-alpha (tnf-alpha)  interleukin (il)-6  il-8 and il-2r)  creatine phosphokinase (cpk)  cpk-mb and troponin i were measured before and 1  6  24 and >72 h after surgery. results the baseline  operative and postoperative morbidity and mortality characteristics were similar for both the groups. group a had significantly lower postoperative levels of il-6 than group b at 6h (68.8+/-5 pg ml(-1) vs 108.9+/-108 pg ml(-1)  p=0.01)  24h (71.7+/-7 pg ml(-1) vs 110.4+/-106 pg ml(-1)  p=0.01) and before hospital discharge (21.6+/-12 pg ml(-1) vs 32.8+/-27 pg ml(-1)  p=0.005)  as well as significantly lower average il-6 levels in the first 24h following surgery (71.8+/-5 pgml(-1) vs 112.8+/-82 pg ml(-1)  p=0.002). the postoperative cpk-mb at 24h (19.7+/-23 ng ml(-1) vs 33.1+/-32 ng ml(-1)  p=0.02) and troponin i levels at the end of the intervention (2.2+/-2.2 ng ml(-1) vs 3.3+/-3.1 ng ml(-1)  p=0.03) and at 24h (4.1+/-3.5 ng ml(-1) vs 6.6+/-8 ng ml(-1)  p=0.04) were also significantly lower in the group treated with statins prior to surgery. conclusions preoperative treatment with statins is associated with a lower biochemical parameters of sir and myocardial damage following cardiac surgery with cpb  regardless of it being coronary bypass grafting (cabg) or valvular surgery.
1713,dna replication fidelity,dna replication fidelity is a key determinant of genome stability and is central to the evolution of species and to the origins of human diseases. here we review our current understanding of replication fidelity  with emphasis on structural and biochemical studies of dna polymerases that provide new insights into the importance of hydrogen bonding  base pair geometry  and substrate-induced conformational changes to fidelity. these studies also reveal polymerase interactions with the dna minor groove at and upstream of the active site that influence nucleotide selectivity  the efficiency of exonucleolytic proofreading  and the rate of forming errors via strand misalignments. we highlight common features that are relevant to the fidelity of any dna synthesis reaction  and consider why fidelity varies depending on the enzymes  the error  and the local sequence environment.
1715,atp-driven exchange of histone h2az variant catalyzed by swr1 chromatin remodeling complex.,the conserved histone variant h2az has an important role in the regulation of gene expression and the establishment of a buffer to the spread of silent heterochromatin. how histone variants such as h2az are incorporated into nucleosomes has been obscure. we have found that swr1  a swi2/snf2-related adenosine triphosphatase  is the catalytic core of a multisubunit  histone-variant exchanger that efficiently replaces conventional histone h2a with histone h2az in nucleosome arrays. swr1 is required for the deposition of histone h2az at specific chromosome locations in vivo  and swr1 and h2az commonly regulate a subset of yeast genes. these findings define a previously unknown role for the adenosine triphosphate-dependent chromatin remodeling machinery.
1717,role of amp-activated protein kinase in mechanism of metformin action.,metformin is a widely used drug for treatment of type 2 diabetes with no defined cellular mechanism of action. its glucose-lowering effect results from decreased hepatic glucose production and increased glucose utilization. metformin's beneficial effects on circulating lipids have been linked to reduced fatty liver. amp-activated protein kinase (ampk) is a major cellular regulator of lipid and glucose metabolism. here we report that metformin activates ampk in hepatocytes; as a result  acetyl-coa carboxylase (acc) activity is reduced  fatty acid oxidation is induced  and expression of lipogenic enzymes is suppressed. activation of ampk by metformin or an adenosine analogue suppresses expression of srebp-1  a key lipogenic transcription factor. in metformin-treated rats  hepatic expression of srebp-1 (and other lipogenic) mrnas and protein is reduced; activity of the ampk target  acc  is also reduced. using a novel ampk inhibitor  we find that ampk activation is required for metformin's inhibitory effect on glucose production by hepatocytes. in isolated rat skeletal muscles  metformin stimulates glucose uptake coincident with ampk activation. activation of ampk provides a unified explanation for the pleiotropic beneficial effects of this drug; these results also suggest that alternative means of modulating ampk should be useful for the treatment of metabolic disorders.
1719,immtacs for targeted cancer therapy: why  what  how  and which.,overcoming immunosuppression and activating a cytotoxic t cell response has the potential to halt the progression of cancer and  in some circumstances  eradicate it. designing therapeutic interventions that achieve this goal has proven challenging  but now a greater understanding of the complexities of immune responses is beginning to produce some notable breakthroughs. immtacs (immune-mobilising monoclonal tcrs against cancer) are a new class of bispecific reagents  based on soluble monoclonal t cell receptors  which have been engineered to possess extremely high affinity for cognate tumour antigen. in this way  immtacs overcome the problem of low affinity tumour-specific t cells imposed by thymic selection and provide access to the large number of antigens presented as peptide-hla complexes. once bound to tumour cells the anti-cd3 effector end of the immtac drives recruitment of polyclonal t cells to the tumour site  leading to a potent redirected t cell response and tumour cell destruction. extensive in vitro testing coupled with promising early clinical data has provided an enhanced appreciation of immtac function in vivo and indicates their potential therapeutic benefit in terms of a durable response and ultimately the breaking of t cell tolerance. this review introduces immtacs in the context of immunotherapy  and outlines their design  construction and mechanism of action  as well as examining target selection and aspects of preclinical safety testing.
1721,subsequent chemotherapy reverses acquired tyrosine kinase inhibitor resistance and restores response to tyrosine kinase inhibitor in advanced non-small-cell lung cancer,background patients with advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) can develop acquired resistance to epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (tkis) erlotinib and gefitinib. here  we report the successful treatment with alternating chemotherapy and tkis of two cases of advanced nsclc who developed resistance to tki. case presentation two patients with advanced or metastatic nsclc were treated with palliative chemotherapy followed by erlotinib/gefitinib. when tki therapy failed  two cycles of chemotherapy were provided  which were followed by re-challenge with erlotinib or gefitinib. conclusion nsclc patients with acquired tki resistance should be managed aggressively whenever possible. subsequent chemotherapy and target treatment is one of the reasonable choices for those with an initial dramatic clinical response with erlotinib/gefitinib treatment. further studies are warranted to substantiate the association of erlotinib /gefitinib treatment with the efficacy of nsclc patients with acquired tki failure.
1723,the role of pparγ in advanced glycation end products-induced inflammatory response in human chondrocytes,objective advances made in the past ten years highlight the notion that peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors gamma (pparγ) has protective properties in the pathophysiology of osteoarthritis (oa). the aim of this study was to define the roles of pparγ in ages-induced inflammatory response in human chondrocytes. methods primary human chondrocytes were stimulated with ages in the presence or absence of neutralizing antibody against rage (anti-rage)  mapk specific inhibitors and pparγ agonist pioglitazone. the expression of il-1  mmp-13  tnf-α  pparγ  nuclear nf-κb p65 and cytosol iκbα was determined by western blotting and real-time pcr. results ages could enhance the expression of il-1  tnf-α  and mmp-13  but the level of pparγ was decreased in a time- and dose-dependent manner  which was inhibited by anti-rage  sb203580 (p38 mapk specific inhibitor) and sp600125 (a selective inhibitor of jnk). pparγ agonist pioglitazone could inhibit the effects of ages-induced inflammatory response and pparγ down-regulation. in human chondrocytes  ages could induce cytosol iκbα degradation and increase the level of nuclear nf-κb p65  which was inhibited by pparγ agonist pioglitazone. conclusions in primary human chondrocytes  ages could down-regulate pparγ expression and increase the inflammatory mediators  which could be reversed by pparγ agonist pioglitazone. activation of rage by ages triggers a cascade of downstream signaling  including mapk jnk/ p38  pparγ and nf-κb. taken together  pparγ could be a potential target for pharmacologic intervention in the treatment of oa.
1725,the effect of collinearity on parameter estimates in nonlinear mixed effect models,purpose. to demonstrate how correlations among predictor variables in a population pharmacokinetic model affect the ability to discern which covariates should enter into the structural pharmacokinetic model. methods. monte carlo simulation was used to generate multiple-dose concentration-time data similar to that seen in a phase iii clinical trial. the drugs' pharmacokinetics were dependent on two covariates. five data sets were simulated with increasing correlation between the two covariates. all data sets were analyzed using nonmem both with and without inclusion of the covariates in the structural pharmacokinetic model. summary measures for ill-conditioning and sensitivity analysis were used to examine how increasing correlation among covariates affects the accuracy and precision of the parameter estimates. results. when covariates were included in the structural pharmacokinetic model and the correlation between covariates increased  the standard error of the parameter estimates increased and the value of parameter estimates themselves became increasingly biased. when the correlation between predictor variables was 0.75  the standard errors of the parameter estimates were too large to declare statistical significance. conclusions. correlations among predictor variables greater than 0.5 when entered into the model simultaneously should be a warning to researchers because the (1) the accuracy of the parameter estimates themselves may be biased and (2) the precision of the estimates may be inflated due to ill-conditioning.
1727,cell death and immune privilege.,the host response to pathogens involves complex inflammatory responses and immune reactions. while these are central to host defense and vital to clearing infections  they are often accompanied by injury to surrounding tissue. most organ systems can tolerate these responses without permanent consequences. however  there are sites that limit the spread of inflammation because it can threaten organ function. the most prominent examples of these are the eye  brain  and reproductive organs (testis  ovary)  where even minor bouts of inflammation can have long-term consequences for the survival of the organism. in these organs immune responses either do not proceed  or proceed in a manner different from other areas; thus  they are called "immunologically privileged. " here a functioning immune response can be the culprit that leads to disease.
1729,a bivalent chromatin structure marks key developmental genes in embryonic stem cells,the most highly conserved noncoding elements (hcnes) in mammalian genomes cluster within regions enriched for genes encoding developmentally important transcription factors (tfs). this suggests that hcne-rich regions may contain key regulatory controls involved in development. we explored this by examining histone methylation in mouse embryonic stem (es) cells across 56 large hcne-rich loci. we identified a specific modification pattern  termed "bivalent domains " consisting of large regions of h3 lysine 27 methylation harboring smaller regions of h3 lysine 4 methylation. bivalent domains tend to coincide with tf genes expressed at low levels. we propose that bivalent domains silence developmental genes in es cells while keeping them poised for activation. we also found striking correspondences between genome sequence and histone methylation in es cells  which become notably weaker in differentiated cells. these results highlight the importance of dna sequence in defining the initial epigenetic landscape and suggest a novel chromatin-based mechanism for maintaining pluripotency.
1731,structural homeostasis: compensatory adjustments of dendritic arbor geometry in response to variations of synaptic input ,as the nervous system develops  there is an inherent variability in the connections formed between differentiating neurons. despite this variability  neural circuits form that are functional and remarkably robust. one way in which neurons deal with variability in their inputs is through compensatory  homeostatic changes in their electrical properties. here  we show that neurons also make compensatory adjustments to their structure. we analysed the development of dendrites on an identified central neuron (acc) in the late drosophila embryo at the stage when it receives its first connections and first becomes electrically active. at the same time  we charted the distribution of presynaptic sites on the developing postsynaptic arbor. genetic manipulations of the presynaptic partners demonstrate that the postsynaptic dendritic arbor adjusts its growth to compensate for changes in the activity and density of synaptic sites. blocking the synthesis or evoked release of presynaptic neurotransmitter results in greater dendritic extension. conversely  an increase in the density of presynaptic release sites induces a reduction in the extent of the dendritic arbor. these growth adjustments occur locally in the arbor and are the result of the promotion or inhibition of growth of neurites in the proximity of presynaptic sites. we provide evidence that suggest a role for the postsynaptic activity state of protein kinase a in mediating this structural adjustment  which modifies dendritic growth in response to synaptic activity. these findings suggest that the dendritic arbor  at least during early stages of connectivity  behaves as a homeostatic device that adjusts its size and geometry to the level and the distribution of input received. the growing arbor thus counterbalances naturally occurring variations in synaptic density and activity so as to ensure that an appropriate level of input is achieved.
1733,the role of protein clearance mechanisms in organismal ageing and age-related diseases.,the ability to maintain a functional proteome  or proteostasis  declines during the ageing process. damaged and misfolded proteins accumulate with age  impairing cell function and tissue homeostasis. the accumulation of damaged proteins contributes to multiple age-related diseases such as alzheimer's  parkinson's or huntington's disease. damaged proteins are degraded by the ubiquitin-proteasome system or through autophagy-lysosome  key components of the proteostasis network. modulation of either proteasome activity or autophagic-lysosomal potential extends lifespan and protects organisms from symptoms associated with proteostasis disorders  suggesting that protein clearance mechanisms are directly linked to ageing and age-associated diseases.
1735,behavioral characterization of neuropeptide y knockout mice.,an extensive behavioral characterization was conducted with mice lacking the gene for neuropeptide y (npy) including response to 24 and 48 h fast and challenge with small molecule antagonists of npy receptors implicated in mediating the feeding effects of npy (i.e.  y1 and y5). in addition  wildtype (wt) and npy knockout (ko) mice were tested in locomotor monitors  elevated plus maze  inhibitory avoidance  acoustic startle  prepulse inhibition  and hot plate assays. one of the major findings was that the npy ko mice have a reduced food intake relative to wt controls in response to fasting. also  based on data from the behavioral models  the npy ko mice may have an anxiogenic-like phenotype  and appear to be hypoalgesic in the hot plate paradigm. the data from these studies provide further evidence of involvement of npy in energy balance  anxiety  and possibly nociception.
1737,th2 cytokine response in major depressive disorder patients before treatment,in major depressive disorder (mdd)  the neuroendocrine and immune systems interactions are impaired. we investigated the pro/anti-inflammatory th1/th2 cytokine balance in mdd patients and in non-depressed control group. the mdd subjects showed higher levels of cortisol and tnf-alpha  increased cd3+cd8+ and nk percentages  diminished b cell counts and no significant variations in cd3+cd4+ lymphocyte. moreover  higher levels of il-4 and il-13 (th2) and significantly lower measurements of il-2 and ifn-gamma (th1) cytokines were also observed in the mdd group. overall  we propose that all these changes could be related to the elevated cortisol levels seen in the mdd patients. further studies are necessary to explore these findings and its implication in future therapeutic approach of mdd patients.
1739,extensive diversity of ig-superfamily proteins in the immune system of insects.,the extensive somatic diversification of immune receptors is a hallmark of higher vertebrates. however  whether molecular diversity contributes to immune protection in invertebrates is unknown. we present evidence that drosophila immune-competent cells have the potential to express more than 18 000 isoforms of the immunoglobulin (ig)-superfamily receptor down syndrome cell adhesion molecule (dscam). secreted protein isoforms of dscam were detected in the hemolymph  and hemocyte-specific loss of dscam impaired the efficiency of phagocytic uptake of bacteria  possibly due to reduced bacterial binding. importantly  the molecular diversity of dscam transcripts generated through a mechanism of alternative splicing is highly conserved across major insect orders  suggesting an unsuspected molecular complexity of the innate immune system of insects.
1741,averting obesity and type 2 diabetes in india through sugar-sweetened beverage taxation: an economic-epidemiologic modeling study,background taxing sugar-sweetened beverages (ssbs) has been proposed in high-income countries to reduce obesity and type 2 diabetes. we sought to estimate the potential health effects of such a fiscal strategy in the middle-income country of india  where there is heterogeneity in ssb consumption  patterns of substitution between ssbs and other beverages after tax increases  and vast differences in chronic disease risk within the population. methods and findings using consumption and price variations data from a nationally representative survey of 100 855 indian households  we first calculated how changes in ssb price alter per capita consumption of ssbs and substitution with other beverages. we then incorporated ssb sales trends  body mass index (bmi)  and diabetes incidence data stratified by age  sex  income  and urban/rural residence into a validated microsimulation of caloric consumption  glycemic load  overweight/obesity prevalence  and type 2 diabetes incidence among indian subpopulations facing a 20% ssb excise tax. the 20% ssb tax was anticipated to reduce overweight and obesity prevalence by 3.0% (95% ci 1.6%-5.9%) and type 2 diabetes incidence by 1.6% (95% ci 1.2%-1.9%) among various indian subpopulations over the period 2014-2023  if ssb consumption continued to increase linearly in accordance with secular trends. however  acceleration in ssb consumption trends consistent with industry marketing models would be expected to increase the impact efficacy of taxation  averting 4.2% of prevalent overweight/obesity (95% ci 2.5-10.0%) and 2.5% (95% ci 1.0-2.8%) of incident type 2 diabetes from 2014-2023. given current consumption and bmi distributions  our results suggest the largest relative effect would be expected among young rural men  refuting our a priori hypothesis that urban populations would be isolated beneficiaries of ssb taxation. key limitations of this estimation approach include the assumption that consumer expenditure behavior from prior years  captured in price elasticities  will reflect future behavior among consumers  and potential underreporting of consumption in dietary recall data used to inform our calculations. conclusion sustained ssb taxation at a high tax rate could mitigate rising obesity and type 2 diabetes in india among both urban and rural subpopulations.
1743,cardiovascular protection with antihypertensive drugs in dialysis patients: systematic review and meta-analysis.,epidemiological studies demonstrate that a lower blood pressure and decline in blood pressure over months or years are associated with higher mortality in dialysis patients. in contrast  randomized  controlled trials lack power to establish benefits of antihypertensive therapy. patients on long-term dialysis participating in randomized  controlled trials and receiving antihypertensive drug therapy were the subject of this meta-analysis. outcomes assessed were the hazard ratio of cardiovascular events and all-cause mortality in treated group compared with controls. among 1202 patients who we identified in 5 studies  the overall benefit of antihypertensive therapy compared with the control or placebo group had a combined hazard ratio for cardiovascular events of 0.69 (95% ci: 0.56 to 0.84) using a fixed-effects model and 0.62 (95% ci: 0.45 to 0.86) using a random-effects model. in a sensitivity analysis  we found that the hypertensive group had a pooled hazard ratio of 0.49 (95% ci: 0.35 to 0.67)  but when normotensives were included in the trial  lesser cardiovascular protection was seen (pooled hazard ratio of 0.86 [95% ci: 0.67 to 1.12]). test for heterogeneity between hypertensive and "normotensive-included" groups was significant (p<0.006). similar results were seen for risk ratio for death and cardiovascular events. there was evidence of publication bias based on egger's test and funnel plot. randomized trials suggested a benefit of antihypertensive therapy among hemodialysis patients. adequately powered randomized trials are required to confirm these observations  especially among those with hypertension.
1745,leptin-receptor-expressing mesenchymal stromal cells represent the main source of bone formed by adult bone marrow.,studies of the identity and physiological function of mesenchymal stromal cells (mscs) have been hampered by a lack of markers that permit both prospective identification and fate mapping in vivo. we found that leptin receptor (lepr) is a marker that highly enriches bone marrow mscs. approximately 0.3% of bone marrow cells were lepr(+)   10% of which were cfu-fs  accounting for 94% of bone marrow cfu-fs. lepr(+) cells formed bone  cartilage  and adipocytes in culture and upon transplantation in vivo. lepr(+) cells were scf-gfp(+)  cxcl12-dsred(high)  and nestin-gfp(low)  markers which also highly enriched cfu-fs  but negative for nestin-creer and ng2-creer  markers which were unlikely to be found in cfu-fs. fate-mapping showed that lepr(+) cells arose postnatally and gave rise to most bone and adipocytes formed in adult bone marrow  including bone regenerated after irradiation or fracture. lepr(+) cells were quiescent  but they proliferated after injury. therefore  lepr(+) cells are the major source of bone and adipocytes in adult bone marrow.
1747,long-term survival of beta thalassemia major patients treated with hematopoietic stem cell transplantation compared with survival with conventional treatment.,allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (hsct) in thalassemia remains a challenge. we reported a single-centre case-control study of a large cohort of 516 children and adult patients treated with hsct or blood transfusion support and iron chelation therapy; 258 patients (median age 12  range 1-45) underwent sibling (67%) or unrelated (33%) hsct; 97 patients were adults (age ≥ 16 years). the median follow-up after hsct was 11 years (range 1-30). the conditioning regimen was busulfan (80.6%) or treosulfan-based (19.4%). a cohort of 258 age-sex matched conventionally treated (ct) patients was randomly selected. in transplanted patients the 30-year overall survival (os) and thalassemia-free survival (tfs) were 82.6 ± 2.7% and 77.8 ± 2.9%  compared to the os of 85.3 ± 2.7% in ct patients (p = ns); the incidence of grade ii-iv acute and chronic graft versus host disease (gvhd) was 23.6% and 12.9% respectively. the probability of rejection was 6.9%. transplant-related mortality (trm) (13.8%) was similar to the probability of dying of cardiovascular events in ct patients (12.2%). high-risk pesaro score (class 3) was associated with lower os (or = 1.99  95% c.i.=1.31-3.03) and tfs (or = 1.54  95% c.i.=1.12-2.12). in adult patients  the 23-years os and tfs after hsct were 70 ± 5% and 67.3 ± 5%  compared to 71.2 ± 5% of os in ct (p = ns). finally  treosulfan was associated with lower risk of acute gvhd (p = .004; or = 0.28  95% c.i.=0.12-0.67). in conclusion  the 30-year survival rate of ex-thalassemia patients after hsct was similar to that expected in ct thalassemia patients  with the vast majority of hsct survivors cured from thalassemia.
1749,ablation and regeneration of tolerance-inducing medullary thymic epithelial cells after cyclosporine  cyclophosphamide  and dexamethasone treatment.,immunosuppressive drugs and cytotoxic chemotherapy agents are designed to kill or suppress autoreactive  alloaggressive  or hyperinflammatory t cells  or disseminated malignancies. however  they also cause severe immunological side effects ranging from interrupted thymopoiesis and general immunodeficiency to  paradoxically  autoimmunity. consistent with the cross-talk between thymocytes and stromal cells  we now show that these common therapeutic agents have major effects on murine thymic epithelial cells (tec)  crucially required to rebuild immunity posttreatment. we show that the immunosuppressant cyclosporine a  which has been linked to a thymus-dependent autoimmune syndrome in some patients  causes extensive loss of autoimmune regulator (aire(+)) tolerance-inducing mhc class ii(high) medullary tec (mtec(high)). post-cyclosporine a  aire expression was restored within 7 days. full recovery of the mtec(high) subset occurred within 10 days and was linked to a decrease in a relatively resistant mhc class ii(low) mtec subset (mtec(low))  consistent with a previously described precursor-product relationship. cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone caused more extensive ablation of thymocytes and stromal cells but again severely depleted tolerance-inducing mtec(high). together  these data show that aire(+) mtecs are highly sensitive to damage and that mtec regeneration follows a conserved pattern regardless of the treatment regimen used.
1751,cpg island methylator phenotype predicts progression of malignant melanoma.,purpose the cpg island methylator phenotype (cimp) may be associated with development of malignancy through coordinated inactivation of tumor suppressor and tumor-related genes (trg) and methylation of multiple noncoding  methylated-in-tumor (mint) loci. these epigenetic changes create a distinct cimp pattern that has been linked to recurrence and survival in gastrointestinal cancers. because epigenetic inactivation of trgs also has been shown in malignant melanoma  we hypothesized the existence of a clinically significant cimp in cutaneous melanoma progression. experimental design the methylation status of the cpg island promoter region of trgs related to melanoma pathophysiology (wif1  tfpi2  rassf1a  rarbeta2  socs1  and gata4) and a panel of mint loci (mint1  mint2  mint3  mint12  mint17  mint25  and mint31) in primary and metastatic tumors of different clinical stages (n=122) was assessed. results here  we show an increase in hypermethylation of the trgs wif1  tfpi2  rassf1a  and socs1 with advancing clinical tumor stage. furthermore  we find a significant positive association between the methylation status of mint17  mint31  and trgs. the methylation status of mint31 is associated with disease outcome in stage iii melanoma. conclusions these findings show the significance of a cimp pattern that is associated with advancing clinical stage of malignant melanoma. future prospective large-scale studies may determine if cimp-positive primary melanomas are at high risk of metastasis or recurrence.
1753,eic1 links mis18 with the ccan/mis6/ctf19 complex to promote cenp-a assembly,cenp-a chromatin forms the foundation for kinetochore assembly. replication-independent incorporation of cenp-a at centromeres depends on its chaperone hjurp(scm3)  and mis18 in vertebrates and fission yeast. the recruitment of mis18 and hjurp(scm3) to centromeres is cell cycle regulated. vertebrate mis18 associates with mis18bp1(knl2)  which is critical for the recruitment of mis18 and hjurp(scm3). we identify two novel fission yeast mis18-interacting proteins (eic1 and eic2)  components of the mis18 complex. eic1 is essential to maintain cnp1(cenp-a) at centromeres and is crucial for kinetochore integrity; eic2 is dispensable. eic1 also associates with fta7(cenp-q/okp1)  cnl2(nkp2) and mal2(cenp-o/mcm21)  components of the constitutive ccan/mis6/ctf19 complex. no mis18bp1(knl2) orthologue has been identified in fission yeast  consequently it remains unknown how the key cnp1(cenp-a) loading factor mis18 is recruited. our findings suggest that eic1 serves a function analogous to that of mis18bp1(knl2)  thus representing the functional counterpart of mis18bp1(knl2) in fission yeast that connects with a module within the ccan/mis6/ctf19 complex to allow the temporally regulated recruitment of the mis18/scm3(hjurp) cnp1(cenp-a) loading factors. the novel interactions identified between cenp-a loading factors and the ccan/mis6/ctf19 complex are likely to also contribute to cenp-a maintenance in other organisms.
1755,maternal alloantigens promote the development of tolerogenic fetal regulatory t cells in utero.,as the immune system develops  t cells are selected or regulated to become tolerant of self antigens and reactive against foreign antigens. in mice  the induction of such tolerance is thought to be attributable to the deletion of self-reactive cells. here  we show that the human fetal immune system takes advantage of an additional mechanism: the generation of regulatory t cells (tregs) that suppress fetal immune responses. we find that substantial numbers of maternal cells cross the placenta to reside in fetal lymph nodes  inducing the development of cd4+cd25highfoxp3+ tregs that suppress fetal antimaternal immunity and persist at least until early adulthood. these findings reveal a form of antigen-specific tolerance in humans  induced in utero and probably active in regulating immune responses after birth.
1757,cardiovascular diseases in chinese  malays  and indians in singapore. i. differences in mortality.,study objective the aim of the study was to analyse differences in mortality from the main cardiovascular diseases (ischaemic heart disease  hypertensive disease  and cerebrovascular disease) among chinese  malays  and indians in singapore. design the study was a survey using national death registration data in singapore for the five years 1980 to 1984. the underlying cause of death  coded according to the ninth revision of the international classification of diseases  was taken for the analyses. setting the study was confined to the independent island state of singapore  population 2.53 million (chinese 76.5%  malays 14.8%  indians 6.4%  others 2.3%). death registration is thought to be complete. subjects all registered deaths in the age range 30-69 years during the study period were analysed by ethnic group. measurement and main results indians had higher mortality from ischaemic heart disease than the other ethnic groups in both sexes  with age-standardised relative risks of indian v chinese (males 3.8  females 3.4)  indian v malay (males 1.9  females 1.6)  and malay v chinese (males 2.0  females 2.2). the excess mortality in indians declined with age. for hypertensive disease malays had the highest mortality  with age-standardised relative risks of malay v chinese (males 3.4  females 4.4)  malay v indian (males 2.0  females 2.5)  and indian v chinese (males 1.6  females 1.6). for cerebrovascular disease there was little ethnic difference except for lower rates in chinese females  with age-standardised relative risks of malay v chinese (males 1.1  females 1.9)  malay v indian (males 1.0  females 1.1)  and indian v chinese (males 1.1  females 1.7). conclusions there are significant differences in mortality from the three main cardiovascular diseases in the different ethnic groups in singapore.
1759,the flavonoid component isorhamnetin in vitro inhibits proliferation and induces apoptosis in eca-109 cells.,isorhamnetin is one member of flavonoid components which has been used in the treatment of heart disease. recently the in vitro anti-cancer effect of isorhamnetin on human esophageal squamous carcinoma cell line eca-109 was investigated in our lab. when eca-109 cells were in vitro exposed to the graded doses of isorhamnetin (0-80 microg/ml) for 48 h  respectively  isorhamnetin exhibited cytostatic effect on the treated cells  with an ic(50) of 40+/-0.08 microg/ml as estimated by mtt assay. inhibition on proliferation by isorhamnetin was detected by trypan blue exclusion assay  clone formation test  immunocytochemical assay of pcna and (3)h-thymidine uptake analysis. cell cycle distribution was measured by fcm. it was found that the viability of eca-109 cells was significantly hampered by isorhamnetin. compared with the negative control group  the treated group which was exposed to isorhamnetin had increased population in g(0)/g(1) phase from 74.6 to 84 while had a significant reduction in g(2)/m phase from 11.9 to 5.8. in addition to its cytostatic effect  isorhamnetin also showed stimulatory effect on apoptosis. typical apoptotic morphology such as condensation and fragmentation of nuclei and blebbing membrane of the apoptotic cells could be observed through transmission electron microscope. moreover  the sharp increase in apoptosis rate between the control and treated group were detected by fcm from 6.3 to 16.3. to explore the possible molecular mechanisms that underlie the growth inhibition and apoptosis stimulatory effects of isorhamnetin  the expressions of six proliferation- and death-related genes were detected by fcm. expressions of bcl-2  c-myc and h-ras were downregulated whereas bax  c-fos and p53 were upregulated. however  the in vivo experiments were required to further confirm the anti-cancer effects of isorhamnetin. in conclusion  isorhamnetin appears to be a potent drug against esophageal cancer due to its in vitro potential to not only inhibit proliferation but also induce apoptosis of eca-109 cells.
1761,two sequence motifs from hif-1alpha bind to the dna-binding site of p53.,there is evidence that hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha (hif-1alpha) interacts with the tumor suppressor p53. to characterize the putative interaction  we mapped the binding of the core domain of p53 (p53c) to an array of immobilized hif-1alpha-derived peptides and found two peptide-sequence motifs that bound to p53c with micromolar affinity in solution. one sequence was adjacent to and the other coincided with the two proline residues of the oxygen-dependent degradation domain (p402 and p564) that act as switches for the oxygen-dependent regulation of hif-1alpha. the binding affinity was independent of the hydroxylation state of p564. we found from nmr spectroscopy that these sequence motifs bind to the dna-binding site of p53c. because the two sequences are homologous and separated by 120 residues  and one is in a largely unstructured transactivation domain  we speculate that each sequence motif in hif-1alpha binds to a different subunit of the p53 tetramer  leading to very tight binding. the binding data support the proposal that p53 provides a route for the degradation in hypoxic tumor cells of hif-1alpha that is not hydroxylated at the two proline residues.
1763,differential regulation of map kinase activation by a novel splice variant of human map kinase phosphatase-2.,map kinase phosphatase-2 (mkp-2) is a member of the family of dual specificity phosphatases that functions to inactivate the erk and jnk map kinase signalling pathways. here  we identify a novel human mkp-2 variant (mkp-2-s) lacking the map kinase binding site but retaining the phosphatase catalytic domain. endogenous mkp-2-s transcripts and proteins were found in pc3 prostate and mda-mb-231 breast cancer cells and also human prostate biopsies. cellular transfection of mkp-2-s gave rise to a nuclear protein of 33kda which displayed phosphatase activity comparable to the formerly described long form of mkp-2 (mkp-2-l). due to its lack of a kinase interacting motif (kim)  mkp-2-s did not bind to jnk or erk; mkp-2-l bound erk and to a lesser extent jnk. protein turnover of adenoviral expressed mkp-2-s was accelerated relative to mkp-2-l  with a greater susceptibility to proteosomal-mediated degradation. mkp-2-s retained its ability to deactivate jnk in a similar manner as mkp-2-l and was an effective inhibitor of lps-stimulated cox-2 induction. however  unlike mkp-2-l  mkp-2-s was unable to reverse serum-induced erk activation or significantly inhibit endothelial cell proliferation. these findings reveal the occurrence of a novel splice variant of mkp-2 which is unable to bind erk and may be significant in the dysregulation of map kinase activity in certain disease states  particularly in breast and prostate cancers.
1765,knowledge and use of secondary contraception among patients requesting termination of pregnancy.,the results of a survey of 769 patients attending the st. james's university fertility control clinic  england  for abortion services showed that patients seeing general practitioners were less knowledgeable than those attending specialist clinics. there was a demonstrated need for counseling on pill and condom use and protection against sexually transmitted diseases. knowledge of postcoital methods was also found to be lacking. the survey was conducted between april 1  1991  and january 31  1992. respondents included minorities such as afro-caribbean (8%) and asian (9%). 307 of the cases were using a less effective form of contraception at the time of conception  usually a change from the pill to condoms. of the 171 people reporting failure of contraception  93 noted a split or leaking condom; 13  a condom falling off during intercourse; 32  inconsistent use of condoms;l 32  forgetting to take contraceptive pills or using antibiotics with the pill; and 1  a late injection of medroxyprogesterone acetate. 45 of the 309 people who had conceived while using condoms recognized a potential condom failure  and only 20 attempted any emergency contraceptive method such as the postcoital pill. only 30% of the 171 patients with recognized condom failure and 12% of the 210 who had not used any contraception had adequate knowledge of the existence  timing  and source of postcoital pills; i.e.  20% of 381. only 2% of the 171 nd 2% of the 381 patients  had knowledge of postcoital insertion of an intrauterine contraceptive device. given the choice between and unplanned pregnancy and postcoital contraceptive  most (718 out of 769) preferred using postcoital contraception. contraceptive information was given to 501 by a general practitioner  to 102 by a community family planning clinic  and 163 had no medical advice. there was a range of knowledge of postcoital contraceptive methods. knowledge of how to deal with forgotten pills  severe vomiting  severe diarrhea  and concurrent antibiotic treatment among the 422 patients who had ever used the combined pill also was variable. 19% of the 372 patients treated by general practitioners knew 4 correct answers  but 50% of the 50 patients in community family planning clinics answered correctly 4 times. differences could not be explained by other demographic characteristics.
1767,the ascendancy of amblyomma americanum as a vector of pathogens affecting humans in the united states.,until the 1990s  amblyomma americanum was regarded primarily as a nuisance species  but a tick of minor importance as a vector of zoonotic pathogens affecting humans. with the recent discoveries of ehrlichia chaffeensis  ehrlichia ewingii  and "borrelia lonestari " the public health relevance of lone star ticks is no longer in question. during the next 25 years  the number of cases of human disease caused by a. americanum-associated pathogens will probably increase. based on current trajectories and historic precedents  the increase will be primarily driven by biological and environmental factors that alter the geographic distribution and intensity of transmission of zoonotic pathogens. sociologic and demographic changes that influence the likelihood of highly susceptible humans coming into contact with infected lone star ticks  in addition to advances in diagnostic capabilities and national surveillance efforts  will also contribute to the anticipated increase in the number of recognized cases of disease.
1769,long tandem arrays of complex repeat units in chironomus telomeres.,a cloned 340-bp dna fragment excised by ecori from the chironomus pallividittatus genome has been localized to the telomeres by in situ hybridization as well as to connectives between telomeres. no hybridization was observed in other regions of the chromosomes. another cloned ecori fragment  525 bp long has also been studied. this represents a partial duplication of the 340-bp sequence. genomic blot hybridization experiments show that the 340-bp sequence is a representative monomeric unit of tandemly repeated arrays which account for 1.2% of the chironomus genome  on average 300 kb per telomere. the repeat unit contains two types of subrepeats each present twice per repeat unit. northern blot hybridization experiments show that the telomere-associated sequences are transcribed into a discrete rna species approximately 20 kb in size. the evolution of this telomere-associated dna is discussed.
1771,follicular b cell trafficking within the spleen actively restricts humoral immune responses.,follicular (fo) and marginal zone (mz) b cells are maintained in distinct locations within the spleen  but the genetic basis for this separation is still enigmatic. we now report that b cell sequestration requires lineage-specific regulation of migratory receptors by the transcription factor klf2. moreover  using gene-targeted mice we show that altered splenic b cell migration confers a significant in vivo gain-of-function phenotype to fo b cells  including the ability to quickly respond to mz-associated antigens and pathogens in a t cell-dependent manner. this work demonstrates that in wild-type animals  naive fo b cells are actively removed from the mz  thus restricting their capacity to respond to blood-borne pathogens.
1773,neighbourhood risk factors for tuberculosis in hong kong.,background tuberculosis (tb) has been reported to be associated with poverty  especially in developing countries. hong kong is one of the few industrialised areas with a high incidence of tb where previous reports on the effect of poverty at neighbourhood level have been conflicting. objective to examine the spatial distribution of tb and its association with neighbourhood risk factors. method a total of 17 294 tb cases notified from 2005 to 2007 were mapped down to the district council constituency area (dcca) level  and were indirectly standardised by age and sex using 2006 census population data. the standardised tb ratio was correlated with neighbourhood risk factors classified by family  ethnicity  economic and environmental domains. results the indirect age- and sex-standardised ratio demonstrated a spatially varied pattern  and was significantly associated with all neighbourhood factors on univariate analysis. only marital status  place of birth and low household income were independently associated with the standardised tb ratio on multivariate analysis. conclusion despite the virtual elimination of absolute poverty by a well-developed social assistance scheme  low household income in the neighbourhood was significantly associated with tb  independently of place of birth  marital status and other risk factors.
1775,developing primary palliative care.,although 65% of people with cancer want to die at home  only about 30% are successful in doing so.1 2 a government committed to choice for patients must improve this figure.3 developing palliative care services in primary care is essential for realising the expectations of dying people. such services could also offer important opportunities for extending supportive humane care at an earlier stage  and to people not only with cancer but with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease  motor neurone disease  and cardiac failure  for example  who also often have palliative care needs. primary care professionals have the potential and ability to provide end of life care for most patients  given adequate training  resources  and  when needed  specialist advice.4 5 they share common values with palliative care specialists—holistic  patient centred care  delivered in the context of families and friends.6 however  until recently  apart from macmillan general practitioners and nurse facilitators  few comprehensive workforce initiatives have been undertaken in primary care that focus on end of life care. many cancer patients and their carers experience existential distress long before they die.7 recognising and alleviating such suffering is important  but it often goes unrecognised or is overlooked by services focusing on the terminal phase of illnesses. primary care teams may know patients over long periods of time. they can readily identify patients from cancer and chronic disease registers who might benefit from an early palliative care approach. such patients could be identified by clinicians asking one simple question of themselves: “would i be surprised if my patient were to die in the next 12 months?”8 by identifying such patients proactively we could deliver  simultaneously  active treatment and patient centred supportive care  through a team with whom many patients have a valued long term relationship. palliative care services need to be extended to patients with non-malignant conditions who have comparable concerns to and in some cases even greater unmet needs than cancer patients.9 progress by palliative medicine specialists is hampered by issues such as uncertainty about the most effective models of care  lack of non-cancer expertise  and concerns about pressure on specialist services. general practitioners and community nurses can lead the way in providing a palliative care approach for patients with terminal organ failure illness. the first step in such an approach is for the goals of care to be discussed and agreed. management plans are adjusted accordingly. effective control of symptoms and maintaining quality of life are prioritised. in the light of these important opportunities it is regrettable that the new general medical services contract has not prioritised palliative care. by day  other developments to achieve the quality indicators are taking precedence. by night and at weekends  the new unscheduled care services (which are responsible for providing care for 75% of the hours in the week) are even less well configured than previous out of hours provision to facilitate dying at home. such services specialise in dealing with acute emergencies and  as such  often struggle to meet the medical  nursing  and social care needs of dying people and their families. these changes will greatly affect care for dying people and may increase the number of hospital admissions. however  one important initiative is gaining momentum within primary care. the gold standards framework is a resource for organising proactive palliative care in the community and is supported by funding from the cancer services collaborative  macmillan cancer relief  and the national lottery.10 the framework provides a detailed guide to providing holistic  patient centred care and thereby facilitates effective care in the community. other recently initiated mechanisms for developing primary palliative care include the training of general practitioners with a special interest in palliative care and the new end of life initiative in england to improve palliative care provision by generalists and to share examples of good practice. to support such developments it is essential that primary palliative care is supported by an adequate academic base.11 this is admittedly a challenging arena in which to undertake research  but progress has been made in recent years in developing conceptual models and research architectures for studying end of life issues. now we need to build on this work to ensure that the understanding and insights gleaned can be translated into effective interventions. every person with a progressive illness has a right to palliative care.12 patients desire a reassuring professional presence in the face of death. general practitioners and community nurses are trusted by patients and are in a position to provide effective  equitable  and accessible palliative care. this will happen only if they have adequate time and resources and work in a system that encourages such care. patients who receive holistic support in the community may be less likely to require expensive admission to hospital and often futile treatments at the end of their lives.
1777,a coactivator of pre-mrna splicing.,the nuclear matrix antigen recognized by the monoclonal antibody (mab) b1c8 is a novel serine (s) and arginine (r)-rich protein associated with splicing complexes and is named here srm160 (sr-related matrix protein of 160 kd). srm160 contains multiple sr repeats  but unlike proteins of the sr family of splicing factors  lacks an rna recognition motif. srm160 and a related protein srm300 (the 300-kd nuclear matrix antigen recognized by mab b4a11) form a complex that is required for the splicing of specific pre-mrnas. the srm160/300 complex associates with splicing complexes and promotes splicing through interactions with sr family proteins. binding of srm160/300 to pre-mrna is normally also dependent on u1 snrnp and is stabilized by u2 snrnp. thus  srm160/300 forms multiple interactions with components bound directly to important sites within pre-mrna. the results suggest that a complex of the nuclear matrix proteins srm160 and srm300 functions as a coactivator of pre-mrna splicing.
1779,staphylococcus aureus rnaiii coordinately represses the synthesis of virulence factors and the transcription regulator rot by an antisense mechanism.,rnaiii is the intracellular effector of the quorum-sensing system in staphylococcus aureus. it is one of the largest regulatory rnas (514 nucleotides long) that are known to control the expression of a large number of virulence genes. here  we show that the 3' domain of rnaiii coordinately represses at the post-transcriptional level  the expression of mrnas that encode a class of virulence factors that act early in the infection process. we demonstrate that the 3' domain acts primarily as an antisense rna and rapidly anneals to these mrnas  forming long rna duplexes. the interaction between rnaiii and the mrnas results in repression of translation initiation and triggers endoribonuclease iii hydrolysis. these processes are followed by rapid depletion of the mrna pool. in addition  we show that rnaiii and its 3' domain mediate translational repression of rot mrna through a limited number of base pairings involving two loop-loop interactions. since rot is a transcriptional regulatory protein  we proposed that rnaiii indirectly acts on many downstream genes  resulting in the activation of the synthesis of several exoproteins. these data emphasize the multitude of regulatory steps affected by rnaiii and its 3' domain in establishing a network of s. aureus virulence factors.
1781,pamidronate induced anti-proliferative  apoptotic  and anti-migratory effects in hepatocellular carcinoma.,background/aims the small gtpase of ras and rho families are widely involved in human tumorgenesis and metastasis. it has recently been reported that pamidronate inhibits the mevalonate pathway  which is required for the prenylation of the small gtpase. we demonstrated a possible beneficial use of pamidronate in the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc). methods the effect of pamidronate on cell proliferation was analyzed with five hepatoma cell lines using mtt assay. apoptosis was evaluated by staining with dapi and a histon elisa assay. a cell migration assay was performed using the modified boyden chamber. to analyze anti-proliferation effect of pamidronate in vivo  tumor volumes were monitored with the intraperitoneal injection of pamidronate after subcutaneous inoculation of plc/prf/5 cells into nude mice. results pamidronate inhibited cell growth for all hepatoma cell lines. the amount of membrane associated ras and phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase 2 (erk 2) were reduced after pamidronate treatment. pamidronate increased apoptosis and cleavage of caspase-3  and -9. pamidronate suppressed membrane associated rhoa and cell motility. in vivo  tumor volumes were significantly suppressed by pamidronate at three weeks (p<0.03). conclusions we conclude that pamidronate has therapeutic potential in inducing anti-proliferative  apoptotic  and anti-migratory effects in hcc.
1783,recovery of visual response of injured adult rat optic nerves treated with transglutaminase.,failure of axons of the central nervous system in adult mammals to regenerate spontaneously after injury is attributed in part to inhibitory molecules associated with oligodendrocytes. regeneration of central nervous system axons in fish is correlated with the presence of a transglutaminase. this enzyme dimerizes interleukin-2  and the product is cytotoxic to oligodendrocytes in vitro. application of this nerve-derived transglutaminase to rat optic nerves  in which the injury had caused the loss of visual evoked potential response to light  promoted the recovery of that response within 6 weeks after injury. transmission electron microscopy analysis revealed the concomitant appearance of axons in the distal stump of the optic nerve.
1785,molecular and cytogenetic changes involved in the immortalization of nasopharyngeal epithelial cells by telomerase.,nasopharyngeal carcinoma (npc) is a common disease in hong kong and southern provinces of china. ebv infection is believed to play a critical role in the development of npc. previous studies on the transformation mechanism of ebv genes were mostly performed in either npc or nonnasopharyngeal epithelial cells which may not be representative of premalignant nasopharyngeal epithelial cells. establishment of a representative cell system would greatly facilitate the elucidation of the role of ebv infection in the development of npc. using telomerase alone  we were able to establish an immortalized nasopharyngeal epithelial cell line from primary nonmalignant nasopharyngeal biopsies. the telomerase-immortalized nasopharyngeal epithelial cells are largely diploid in karyotype. interestingly  this newly immortalized nasopharyngeal epithelial cell line  referred as np460htert  harbors genetic alterations previously identified in premalignant and malignant nasopharyngeal epithelial cells. these include inactivation of p16 by homozygous deletion of the p16(ink4a) locus and downregulation of rassf1a expression. the deletion of the p16(ink4a) locus appears to be the most crucial event for the immortalization of nasopharyngeal epithelial cells by telomerase and precedes rassf1a downregulation. in addition  detailed analysis of the cytogenetic changes by conventional cytogenetics  spectral karyotyping (sky) and array-based cgh revealed a gain of a 17q21-q25 fragment on 11p15 chromosome in all np460htert cells which occurred before deletion of the p16(ink4a) locus. gain of 17q has been previously reported in npc. in addition  activation of nf-kappab was observed in immortalized np460htert cells at the later population doublings  and may play a role in the survival of immortalized np epithelial cells. id1 which is commonly expressed in various human cancers  including npc  was also upregulated in the immortalized np460htert cells. thus  the establishment of an immortalized nasopharyngeal epithelial cell line harboring common genetic alterations present in premalignant and cancerous nasopharyngeal epithelial cells may provide a valuable cell system to examine for early events involved in npc carcinogenesis  particularly in elucidating the role of ebv infection in npc development.
1787,the dhr96 nuclear receptor regulates xenobiotic responses in drosophila.,exposure to xenobiotics such as plant toxins  pollutants  or prescription drugs triggers a defense response  inducing genes that encode key detoxification enzymes. although xenobiotic responses have been studied in vertebrates  little effort has been made to exploit a simple genetic system for characterizing the molecular basis of this coordinated transcriptional response. we show here that approximately 1000 transcripts are significantly affected by phenobarbital treatment in drosophila. we also demonstrate that the drosophila ortholog of the human sxr and car xenobiotic receptors  dhr96  plays a role in this response. a dhr96 null mutant displays increased sensitivity to the sedative effects of phenobarbital and the pesticide ddt as well as defects in the expression of many phenobarbital-regulated genes. metabolic and stress-response genes are also controlled by dhr96  implicating its role in coordinating multiple response pathways. this work establishes a new model system for defining the genetic control of xenobiotic stress responses.
1789,taa1-mediated auxin biosynthesis is essential for hormone crosstalk and plant development,plants have evolved a tremendous ability to respond to environmental changes by adapting their growth and development. the interaction between hormonal and developmental signals is a critical mechanism in the generation of this enormous plasticity. a good example is the response to the hormone ethylene that depends on tissue type  developmental stage  and environmental conditions. by characterizing the arabidopsis wei8 mutant  we have found that a small family of genes mediates tissue-specific responses to ethylene. biochemical studies revealed that wei8 encodes a long-anticipated tryptophan aminotransferase  taa1  in the essential  yet genetically uncharacterized  indole-3-pyruvic acid (ipa) branch of the auxin biosynthetic pathway. analysis of taa1 and its paralogues revealed a link between local auxin production  tissue-specific ethylene effects  and organ development. thus  the ipa route of auxin production is key to generating robust auxin gradients in response to environmental and developmental cues.
1791,parallel processing in the mammalian retina,our eyes send different 'images' of the outside world to the brain — an image of contours (line drawing)  a colour image (watercolour painting) or an image of moving objects (movie). this is commonly referred to as parallel processing  and starts as early as the first synapse of the retina  the cone pedicle. here  the molecular composition of the transmitter receptors of the postsynaptic neurons defines which images are transferred to the inner retina. within the second synaptic layer — the inner plexiform layer — circuits that involve complex inhibitory and excitatory interactions represent filters that select 'what the eye tells the brain'.
1793,a point mutation in kindlin3 ablates activation of three integrin subfamilies in humans,monogenic deficiency diseases provide unique opportunities to define the contributions of individual molecules to human physiology and to identify pathologies arising from their dysfunction. here we describe a deficiency disease in two human siblings that presented with severe bleeding  frequent infections and osteopetrosis at an early age. these symptoms are consistent with but more severe than those reported for people with leukocyte adhesion deficiency iii (lad-iii). mechanistically  these symptoms arose from an inability to activate the integrins expressed on hematopoietic cells  including platelets and leukocytes. immortalized lymphocyte cell lines isolated from the two individuals showed integrin activation defects. several proteins previously implicated in integrin activation  including ras-associated protein-1 (rap1) and calcium and diacylglycerol-regulated guanine nucleotide exchange factor-1 (caldag-gef1)  were present and functional in these cell lines. the genetic basis for this disease was traced to a point mutation in the coding region of the kindlin3 (official gene symbol fermt3) gene. when wild-type kindlin-3 was expressed in the immortalized lymphocytes  their integrins became responsive to activation signals. these results identify a genetic disease that severely compromises the health of the affected individuals and establish an essential role of kindlin-3 in integrin activation in humans. furthermore  allogeneic bone marrow transplantation was shown to alleviate the symptoms of the disease.
1795,prevalence and causes of blindness and low vision in southern sudan ,background blindness and low vision are thought to be common in southern sudan. however  the magnitude and geographical distribution are largely unknown. we aimed to estimate the prevalence of blindness and low vision  identify the main causes of blindness and low vision  and estimate targets for blindness prevention programs in mankien payam (district)  southern sudan.
1797,azd9150  a next-generation antisense oligonucleotide inhibitor of stat3 with early evidence of clinical activity in lymphoma and lung cancer,next-generation sequencing technologies have greatly expanded our understanding of cancer genetics. antisense technology is an attractive platform with the potential to translate these advances into improved cancer therapeutics  because antisense oligonucleotide (aso) inhibitors can be designed on the basis of gene sequence information alone. recent human clinical data have demonstrated the potent activity of systemically administered asos targeted to genes expressed in the liver. we describe the preclinical activity and initial clinical evaluation of a class of asos containing constrained ethyl modifications for targeting the gene encoding the transcription factor stat3  a notoriously difficult protein to inhibit therapeutically. systemic delivery of the unformulated aso  azd9150  decreased stat3 expression in a broad range of preclinical cancer models and showed antitumor activity in lymphoma and lung cancer models. azd9150 preclinical activity translated into single-agent antitumor activity in patients with highly treatment-refractory lymphoma and non–small cell lung cancer in a phase 1 dose-escalation study.
1799,ultrarapid drug metabolism: pcr-based detection of cyp2d6 gene duplication.,the enzyme debrisoquine 4-hydroxylase (cyp2d6)  which metabolizes many widely used drugs  is highly polymorphic. the activity of the enzyme ranges between subjects from ultrafast to a complete absence. therefore  metabolic capacity varies  producing intersubject differences in therapeutic efficacy and side effects at standard recommended doses. up to 7% of caucasians may demonstrate ultrarapid drug metabolism (um) because of inherited alleles with multiplicate functional cyp2d6 genes  causing an increased amount of enzyme to be expressed. identification of um subjects is of potential clinical importance for adjustment of doses in drug therapy  as well as to avoid misidentification of noncompliance. in our study  we tested recently designed pcr assays for the detection of the um genotype. we found a 3.5% prevalence of ums carrying duplicate active cyp2d6 genes in a population consisting of 202 psychiatric patients.
1801,association between folate intake from different food sources in norway and homocysteine status in a dietary intervention among young male adults.,the aim of the present investigation was to study the effect of a dietary intervention which combined nutrition information with increased availability of vegetables  fruits and wholegrain bread. the effect of the intervention was determined by changes in the intake of vegetables  fruits  wholegrain bread and estimated nutrients. furthermore  the study investigated whether changes in relative contribution from different food sources of folate were related to changes in the concentration of plasma total homocysteine (p-thcy). the 5-month intervention study included 376 male recruits from the norwegian national guard  vaernes (intervention group) and 105 male recruits from the norwegian national guard  heggelia (control group). the study resulted in an increase in the total consumption of vegetables  fruits  berries and juice (p < 0.001) and of wholegrain bread (p < 0.001). the participants in the intervention group showed a higher increase in the intake of dietary fibre (p < 0.001) and folate (p < 0.001) compared with the control group. the relative contribution of folate intake from fruits  vegetables and wholegrain bread was higher in the intervention group compared with the control group (p < 0.001 for all). the increased intake of folate from wholegrain bread was inversely associated with a reduced concentration of p-thcy (p = 0.017). in summary  the dietary intervention resulted in an increased intake of vegetables  fruits and wholegrain bread and a subsequent increase in folate intake from these food components. reduction in the concentration of p-thcy was significantly related to an increased folate intake due to an increased consumption of wholegrain bread.
1803,frontrunners of t cell activation: initial  localized ca2+ signals mediated by naadp and the type 1 ryanodine receptor,the activation of t cells is the fundamental on switch for the adaptive immune system. ca2+ signaling is essential for t cell activation and starts as initial  short-lived  localized ca2+ signals. the second messenger nicotinic acid adenine dinucleotide phosphate (naadp) forms rapidly upon t cell activation and stimulates early ca2+ signaling. we developed a high-resolution imaging technique using multiple fluorescent ca2+ indicator dyes to characterize these early signaling events and investigate the channels involved in naadp-dependent ca2+ signals. in the first seconds of activation of either primary murine t cells or human jurkat cells with beads coated with an antibody against cd3  we detected ca2+ signals with diameters close to the limit of detection and that were close to the activation site at the plasma membrane. in jurkat cells in which the ryanodine receptor (ryr) was knocked down or in primary t cells from ryr1−/− mice  either these early ca2+ signals were not detected or the number of signals was markedly reduced. local ca2+ signals observed within 20 ms upon microinjection of jurkat cells with naadp were also sensitive to ryr knockdown. in contrast  trpm2 (transient receptor potential channel  subtype melastatin 2)  a potential naadp target channel  was not required for the formation of initial ca2+ signals in primary t cells. thus  through our high-resolution imaging method  we characterized early ca2+ release events in t cells and obtained evidence for the involvement of ryr and naadp in such signals.
1805,interleukin-33 prevents apoptosis and improves survival after experimental myocardial infarction through st2 signaling.,background st2 is an interleukin (il)-1 receptor family member with membrane-bound (st2l) and soluble (sst2) isoforms  and sst2 is a biomarker for poor outcome in patients with myocardial infarction (mi). il-33  the recently discovered ligand for st2  activates nuclear factor kappab and thus may regulate apoptotic cell death. we tested the hypothesis that il-33 is cardioprotective after mi through st2 signaling. methods and results il-33 protected cultured cardiomyocytes from hypoxia-induced apoptosis  and this cardioprotection was partially inhibited by sst2. il-33 induced expression of the antiapoptotic factors xiap  ciap1  and survivin. to define the cardioprotective role of il-33 in vivo  we performed a blinded and randomized study of ischemia/reperfusion in rats. il-33 reduced cardiomyocyte apoptosis  suppressed caspase-3 activity  and increased expression of iap family member proteins. il-33 decreased both infarct and fibrosis volumes at 15 days; furthermore  both echocardiographic and hemodynamic studies revealed that il-33 improved ventricular function. to determine whether cardioprotection by il-33 is mediated through st2 signaling  a randomized and blinded study of st2(-/-) versus wild-type littermate mice was performed in 98 mice subjected to mi. at 4 weeks after mi  il-33 reduced ventricular dilation and improved contractile function in wild-type mice but not in st2(-/-) mice. finally  il-33 improved survival after mi in wild-type but not in st2(-/-) mice. conclusions il-33 prevents cardiomyocyte apoptosis and improves cardiac function and survival after mi through st2 signaling.
1807,induction therapy with autologous mesenchymal stem cells in living-related kidney transplants: a randomized controlled trial.,context antibody-based induction therapy plus calcineurin inhibitors (cnis) reduce acute rejection rates in kidney recipients; however  opportunistic infections and toxic cni effects remain challenging. reportedly  mesenchymal stem cells (mscs) have successfully treated graft-vs-host disease. objective to assess autologous mscs as replacement of antibody induction for patients with end-stage renal disease who undergo abo-compatible  cross-match-negative kidney transplants from a living-related donor. design  setting  and patients one hundred fifty-nine patients were enrolled in this single-site  prospective  open-label  randomized study from february 2008-may 2009  when recruitment was completed. intervention patients were inoculated with marrow-derived autologous msc (1-2 x 10(6)/kg) at kidney reperfusion and two weeks later. fifty-three patients received standard-dose and 52 patients received low-dose cnis (80% of standard); 51 patients in the control group received anti-il-2 receptor antibody plus standard-dose cnis. main outcome measures the primary measure was 1-year incidence of acute rejection and renal function (estimated glomerular filtration rate [egfr]); the secondary measure was patient and graft survival and incidence of adverse events. results patient and graft survival at 13 to 30 months was similar in all groups. after 6 months  4 of 53 patients (7.5%) in the autologous msc plus standard-dose cni group (95% ci  0.4%-14.7%; p = .04) and 4 of 52 patients (7.7%) in the low-dose group (95% ci  0.5%-14.9%; p = .046) compared with 11 of 51 controls (21.6%; 95% ci  10.5%-32.6%) had biopsy-confirmed acute rejection. none of the patients in either autologous msc group had glucorticoid-resistant rejection  whereas 4 patients (7.8%) in the control group did (95% ci  0.6%-15.1%; overall p = .02). renal function recovered faster among both msc groups showing increased egfr levels during the first month after surgery than the control group. patients receiving standard-dose cni had a mean difference of 6.2 ml/min per 1.73 m(2) (95% ci  0.4-11.9; p=.04) and those in the low-dose cni of 10.0 ml/min per 1.73 m(2) (95% ci  3.8-16.2; p=.002). also  during the 1-year follow-up  combined analysis of msc-treated groups revealed significantly decreased risk of opportunistic infections than the control group (hazard ratio  0.42; 95% ci  0.20-0.85  p=.02)   conclusion among patients undergoing renal transplant  the use of autologous mscs compared with anti-il-2 receptor antibody induction therapy resulted in lower incidence of acute rejection  decreased risk of opportunistic infection  and better estimated renal function at 1 year. trial registration clinicaltrials.gov identifier: nct00658073.
1809,mechanical modulation of receptor-ligand interactions at cell-cell interfaces.,cell surface receptors have been extensively studied because they initiate and regulate signal transduction cascades leading to a variety of functional cellular outcomes. an important class of immune receptors (e.g.  t-cell antigen receptors) whose ligands are anchored to the surfaces of other cells remain poorly understood. the mechanism by which ligand binding initiates receptor phosphorylation  a process termed "receptor triggering"  remains controversial. recently  direct measurements of the (two-dimensional) receptor-ligand complex lifetimes at cell-cell interface were found to be smaller than (three-dimensional) lifetimes in solution but the underlying mechanism is unknown. at the cell-cell interface  the receptor-ligand complex spans a short intermembrane distance (15 nm) compared to long surface molecules (lsms) whose ectodomains span >40 nm and these lsms include phosphatases (e.g.  cd45) that dephosphorylate the receptor. it has been proposed that size-based segregation of lsms from a receptor-ligand complex is a mechanism of receptor triggering but it is unclear whether the mechanochemistry supports such small-scale segregation. here we present a nanometer-scale mathematical model that couples membrane elasticity with the compressional stiffness and lateral mobility of lsms. we find robust supradiffusive segregation of lsms from a single receptor-ligand complex. the model predicts that lsm redistribution will result in a time-dependent tension on the complex leading to a decreased two-dimensional lifetime. interestingly  the model predicts a nonlinear relationship between the three- and two-dimensional lifetimes  which can enhance the ability of receptors to discriminate between similar ligands.
1811,phase locking and multiple oscillating attractors for the coupled mammalian clock and cell cycle.,daily synchronous rhythms of cell division at the tissue or organism level are observed in many species and suggest that the circadian clock and cell cycle oscillators are coupled. for mammals  despite known mechanistic interactions  the effect of such coupling on clock and cell cycle progression  and hence its biological relevance  is not understood. in particular  we do not know how the temporal organization of cell division at the single-cell level produces this daily rhythm at the tissue level. here we use multispectral imaging of single live cells  computational methods  and mathematical modeling to address this question in proliferating mouse fibroblasts. we show that in unsynchronized cells the cell cycle and circadian clock robustly phase lock each other in a 1:1 fashion so that in an expanding cell population the two oscillators oscillate in a synchronized way with a common frequency. dexamethasone-induced synchronization reveals additional clock states. as well as the low-period phase-locked state there are distinct coexisting states with a significantly higher period clock. cells transition to these states after dexamethasone synchronization. the temporal coordination of cell division by phase locking to the clock at a single-cell level has significant implications because disordered circadian function is increasingly being linked to the pathogenesis of many diseases  including cancer.
1813,lip movements entrain the observers’ low-frequency brain oscillations to facilitate speech intelligibility,during continuous speech  lip movements provide visual temporal signals that facilitate speech processing. here  using meg we directly investigated how these visual signals interact with rhythmic brain activity in participants listening to and seeing the speaker. first  we investigated coherence between oscillatory brain activity and speaker's lip movements and demonstrated significant entrainment in visual cortex. we then used partial coherence to remove contributions of the coherent auditory speech signal from the lip-brain coherence. comparing this synchronization between different attention conditions revealed that attending visual speech enhances the coherence between activity in visual cortex and the speaker's lips. further  we identified a significant partial coherence between left motor cortex and lip movements and this partial coherence directly predicted comprehension accuracy. our results emphasize the importance of visually entrained and attention-modulated rhythmic brain activity for the enhancement of audiovisual speech processing.
1815,three-dimensional  single-molecule fluorescence imaging beyond the diffraction limit by using a double-helix point spread function.,we demonstrate single-molecule fluorescence imaging beyond the optical diffraction limit in 3 dimensions with a wide-field microscope that exhibits a double-helix point spread function (dh-psf). the dh-psf design features high and uniform fisher information and has 2 dominant lobes in the image plane whose angular orientation rotates with the axial (z) position of the emitter. single fluorescent molecules in a thick polymer sample are localized in single 500-ms acquisitions with 10- to 20-nm precision over a large depth of field (2 microm) by finding the center of the 2 dh-psf lobes. by using a photoactivatable fluorophore  repeated imaging of sparse subsets with a dh-psf microscope provides superresolution imaging of high concentrations of molecules in all 3 dimensions. the combination of optical psf design and digital postprocessing with photoactivatable fluorophores opens up avenues for improving 3d imaging resolution beyond the rayleigh diffraction limit.
1817,modelling and rescuing neurodevelopmental defect of down syndrome using induced pluripotent stem cells from monozygotic twins discordant for trisomy 21,down syndrome (trisomy 21) is the most common viable chromosomal disorder with intellectual impairment and several other developmental abnormalities. here  we report the generation and characterization of induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs) derived from monozygotic twins discordant for trisomy 21 in order to eliminate the effects of the variability of genomic background. the alterations observed by genetic analysis at the ipsc level and at first approximation in early development illustrate the developmental disease transcriptional signature of down syndrome. moreover  we observed an abnormal neural differentiation of down syndrome ipscs in vivo when formed teratoma in nod-scid mice  and in vitro when differentiated into neuroprogenitors and neurons. these defects were associated with changes in the architecture and density of neurons  astroglial and oligodendroglial cells together with misexpression of genes involved in neurogenesis  lineage specification and differentiation. furthermore  we provide novel evidence that dual-specificity tyrosine-(y)-phosphorylation regulated kinase 1a (dyrk1a) on chromosome 21 likely contributes to these defects. importantly  we found that targeting dyrk1a pharmacologically or by shrna results in a considerable correction of these defects.
1819,a general role for splicing enhancers in exon definition.,exonic splicing enhancers (eses) facilitate exon definition by assisting in the recruitment of splicing factors to the adjacent intron. here we demonstrate that suboptimal 5' and 3' splice sites are activated independently by eses when they are located on different exons. however  when they are situated within a single exon  the same weak 5' and 3' splice sites are activated simultaneously by a single ese. these findings demonstrate that a single ese promotes the recognition of both exon/intron junctions within the same step during exon definition. our results suggest that eses recruit a multicomponent complex that minimally contains components of the splicing machinery required for 5' and 3' splice site selection.
1821,the serine protease inhibitor serpina3n attenuates neuropathic pain by inhibiting t cell-derived leukocyte elastase,neuropathic pain is a major  intractable clinical problem and its pathophysiology is not well understood. although recent gene expression profiling studies have enabled the identification of novel targets for pain therapy  classical study designs provide unclear results owing to the differential expression of hundreds of genes across sham and nerve-injured groups  which can be difficult to validate  particularly with respect to the specificity of pain modulation. to circumvent this  we used two outbred lines of rats  which are genetically similar except for being genetically segregated as a result of selective breeding for differences in neuropathic pain hypersensitivity. serpina3n  a serine protease inhibitor  was upregulated in the dorsal root ganglia (drg) after nerve injury  which was further validated for its mouse homolog. mice lacking serpina3n developed more neuropathic mechanical allodynia than wild-type (wt) mice  and exogenous delivery of serpina3n attenuated mechanical allodynia in wt mice. t lymphocytes infiltrate the drg after nerve injury and release leukocyte elastase (le)  which was inhibited by serpina3n derived from drg neurons. genetic loss of le or exogenous application of a le inhibitor (sivelastat) in wt mice attenuated neuropathic mechanical allodynia. overall  we reveal a novel and clinically relevant role for a member of the serpin superfamily and a leukocyte elastase and crosstalk between neurons and t cells in the modulation of neuropathic pain.
1823,imaging the expression of transfected genes in vivo.,imaging the expression of successful gene transduction has been demonstrated in vivo for the first time by using an appropriate combination of "marker gene" and "marker substrate" in an experimental animal model. the herpes simplex virus 1 thymidine kinase (hsv1-tk) gene was selected as an example of a marker gene  and the recombinant stk retrovirus containing hsv1-tk was used to transduce rg2 glioma cells in vitro and in vivo. rg2tk+ cell lines expressing the hsv1-tk gene and three potential marker substrates for the hsv1-tk enzyme were evaluated. radiolabeled 5-iodo-2'-fluoro-2'deoxy-1-beta-d-arabinofuranosyluracil (fiau) was shown to be a substantially better marker substrate for the hsv1-tk enzyme than 5-iodo-2'-deoxyuridine or ganciclovir. the magnitude of fiau accumulation in different rg2tk+ clones corresponded to their sensitivity to ganciclovir and to the level of hsv1-tk mrna expression. imaging the expression of hsv1-tk in transduced rg2 tumor cells was demonstrated in animals using quantitative autoradiography; 2-[14c]fiau accumulation was shown to be high in rg2tk+ brain tumors growing in one hemisphere and very low in nontransduced rg2 tumors in the contralateral hemisphere. transduction of rg2 tumor cells with the hsv-tk gene in vivo resulted in tumors which accumulated fiau to high levels and produced clearly defined images. given the level of fiau accumulation in the transduced tumors  it is likely that a clinically applicable method for imaging hsv1-tk gene expression can be implemented using existing clinical imaging techniques.
1825,related iga1 and igg producing cells in blood and diseased mucosa in ulcerative colitis.,background ulcerative colitis (uc) is a chronic inflammatory bowel disease in which the colonic mucosa is infiltrated with plasma cells producing igg autoantibodies. it is not known whether this represents a local mucosal response which has switched to igg or a peripheral response which may have been initiated by peripheral antigen which homed to the colonic mucosa. the clonal distribution of igg secreting cells and isotype switched variants in uc is not known. aims to investigate the clonal distribution of mucosal igg in uc and to search for related igg and iga secreting cells in normal and diseased mucosa and blood in uc. to investigate characteristics which may discriminate between the mucosal and peripheral repertoire in the normal mucosa and in uc. patients blood and normal and diseased mucosa from two patients with uc were studied. methods immunoglobulin gene analysis and clone specific polymerase chain reaction were used to study the clonal distribution and characteristics of igg and related iga in the mucosa and blood of patients with uc. results the igg response in the mucosa of uc patients included widespread clones of cells that were present in both the diseased mucosa and blood but that were scarce in normal mucosa. clonally related iga class switch variants  all iga1  were detected but also only in the diseased mucosa and blood. this suggests that these clones home preferentially to the diseased mucosa. we showed that j(h)1 usage was characteristic of the peripheral repertoire  and that examples of j(h)1 usage were observed in mucosal igg in uc. conclusions overall  these data are consistent with a model of uc in which a peripheral response is expressed and expanded in the colonic mucosa.
1827,neurological development of 5-year-old children receiving a low-saturated fat  low-cholesterol diet since infancy: a randomized controlled trial.,context early childhood introduction of nutritional habits aimed at atherosclerosis prevention is compatible with normal growth  but its effect on neurological development is unknown. objective to analyze how parental counseling aimed at keeping children's diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol influences neurodevelopment during the first 5 years of life. design randomized controlled trial conducted between february 1990 and november 1996. setting outpatient clinic of a university department in turku  finland. participants a total of 1062 seven-month-old infants and their parents  recruited at well-baby clinics between 1990 and 1992. at age 5 years  496 children still living in the city of turku were available to participate in neurodevelopmental testing. intervention participants were randomly assigned to receive individualized counseling aimed at limiting the child's fat intake to 30% to 35% of daily energy  with a saturated:monounsaturated:polyunsaturated fatty acid ratio of 1:1:1 and a cholesterol intake of less than 200 mg/d (n = 540) or usual health education (control group  n = 522). main outcome measures nutrient intake  serum lipid concentrations  and neurological development at 5 years  among children in the intervention vs control groups. results absolute and relative intakes of fat  saturated fatty acids  and cholesterol among children in the intervention group were markedly less than the respective values of control children. mean (sd) percentages of daily energy at age 5 years for the intervention vs control groups were as follows: for total fat  30.6% (4.5%) vs 33.4% (4.4%) (p<. 001); and for saturated fat  11.7% (2.3%) vs 14.5% (2.4%) (p<.001). mean intakes of cholesterol were 164.2 mg (60.1 mg) and 192.5 mg (71. 9 mg) (p<.001) for the intervention and control groups  respectively. serum cholesterol concentrations were continuously 3% to 5% lower in children in the intervention group than in children in the control group. at age 5 years  mean (sd) serum cholesterol concentration of the intervention group was 4.27 (0.63) mmol/l (165 [24] mg/dl) and of the control group  4.41 (0.74) mmol/l (170 [29] mg/dl) (p =.04). neurological development of children in the intervention group was at least as good as that of children in the control group. relative risks for children in the intervention group to fail tests of speech and language skills  gross motor functioning plus perception  and visual motor skills were 0.95 (90% confidence interval [ci]  0.60-1.49)  0.95 (90% ci  0.58-1.55)  and 0.65 (90% ci  0.39-1.08)  respectively (p =.85 .86  and.16  respectively  vs control children). conclusion our data indicate that repeated child-targeted dietary counseling of parents during the first 5 years of a child's life lessens age-associated increases in children's serum cholesterol and is compatible with normal neurological development. jama. 2000;284:993-1000
1829,modulation of mitochondrial function and morphology by interaction of omi/htra2 with the mitochondrial fusion factor opa1.,loss of omi/htra2 function leads to nerve cell loss in mouse models and has been linked to neurodegeneration in parkinson's and huntington's disease. omi/htra2 is a serine protease released as a pro-apoptotic factor from the mitochondrial intermembrane space into the cytosol. under physiological conditions  omi/htra2 is thought to be involved in protection against cellular stress  but the cytological and molecular mechanisms are not clear. omi/htra2 deficiency caused an accumulation of reactive oxygen species and reduced mitochondrial membrane potential. in omi/htra2 knockout mouse embryonic fibroblasts  as well as in omi/htra2 silenced human hela cells and drosophila s2r+ cells  we found elongated mitochondria by live cell imaging. electron microscopy confirmed the mitochondrial morphology alterations and showed abnormal cristae structure. examining the levels of proteins involved in mitochondrial fusion  we found a selective up-regulation of more soluble opa1 protein. complementation of knockout cells with wild-type omi/htra2 but not with the protease mutant [s306a]omi/htra2 reversed the mitochondrial elongation phenotype and opa1 alterations. finally  co-immunoprecipitation showed direct interaction of omi/htra2 with endogenous opa1. thus  we show for the first time a direct effect of loss of omi/htra2 on mitochondrial morphology and demonstrate a novel role of this mitochondrial serine protease in the modulation of opa1. our results underscore a critical role of impaired mitochondrial dynamics in neurodegenerative disorders.
1831,the pathogenesis of bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis in mice.,administration of 0.5 mg bleomycin to mice twice weekly for 4 weeks induced pulmonary fibrosis. the initial site of injury was the intima of pulmonary arteries and veins where endothelial cells became edematous and were separated from the underlying basement membrane by large blebs. these lesions occurred after 2 weeks and were associated with infiltration of perivascular spaces by lymphocytes and plasma cells. capillary endothelial blebbing and interstitial edema were observed after 4 weeks  when multifocal necrosis of type 1 alveolar epithelial cells was accompanied by fibrinous exudation into the alveoli. the process of repair was characterized by proliferation and metaplasia of type 2 epithelial cells  fibroblastic organization of alveolar fibrin and fibrosis of the interstitium within 8 to 12 weeks. the consistent induction of changes similar to those of diffuse pulmonary fibrosis or fibrosing alveolitis in man suggests that bleomycin-induced injury may provide a suitable model for the investigation of this ill-defined group of diseases.
1833,model-based geostatistics,geostatistics is concerned with estimation and prediction problems for spatially continuous phenomena  using data obtained at a limited number of spatial locations. model-based geostatistics refers to the application of general statistical principles of modelling and inference to geostatisatical problems. this volume is the first book-length treatment of model-based geostatistics.
1835,breath-methane in patients with cancer of the large bowel.,in 30 patients with cancer of the large bowel  24 (80%) had detectable levels of methane in their breath  compared with 25 (39%) of 64 patients with non-malignant large-bowel disease and 83 (40%) of 208 subjects without large-bowel disease. these findings suggest that there may be a difference in anaerobic intestinal flora between patients with cancer of the large bowel and those without the disease. this difference may antedate the development of the tumour or  alternatively  result from the tumour.
1837,sperm cross-over activity in regions of the human genome showing extreme breakdown of marker association.,population diversity data have recently provided profound  albeit inferential  insights into meiotic recombination across the human genome  revealing a landscape dominated by thousands of cross-over hotspots. however  very few of these putative hotspots have been directly analyzed for cross-over activity. we now describe a search for very active hotspots  by using extreme breakdown of marker association as a guide for high-resolution sperm cross-over analysis. this strategy has led to the isolation of the most active cross-over hotspots yet described. their morphology  sequence attributes  and cross-over processes are very similar to those seen at less active hotspots  but their activity in sperm is poorly predicted from population diversity information. several of these hotspots showed evidence for biased gene conversion accompanying cross-over  in some cases associated with variation between men in cross-over activity and with two hotspots showing complete presence/absence polymorphism in different men. hotspot polymorphism is very common at less active hotspots but curiously was not seen at any of the most active hotspots. this contrasts with the prediction that extreme hotspots should be the most vulnerable to attenuation by meiotic drive in favor of mutations that suppress recombination and should therefore show rapid rate evolution and thus variation in activity between men. finally  these very intense hotspots provide a valuable resource for dissecting meiotic recombination processes and pathways in humans.
1839,a rapamycin-sensitive signaling pathway contributes to long-term synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus.,many forms of long-lasting behavioral and synaptic plasticity require the synthesis of new proteins. for example  long-term potentiation (ltp) that endures for more than an hour requires both transcription and translation. the signal-transduction mechanisms that couple synaptic events to protein translational machinery during long-lasting synaptic plasticity  however  are not well understood. one signaling pathway that is stimulated by growth factors and results in the translation of specific mrnas includes the rapamycin-sensitive kinase mammalian target of rapamycin (mtor  also known as frap and raft-1). several components of this translational signaling pathway  including mtor  eukaryotic initiation factor-4e-binding proteins 1 and 2  and eukaryotic initiation factor-4e  are present in the rat hippocampus as shown by western blot analysis  and these proteins are detected in the cell bodies and dendrites in the hippocampal slices by immunostaining studies. in cultured hippocampal neurons  these proteins are present in dendrites and are often found near the presynaptic protein  synapsin i. at synaptic sites  their distribution completely overlaps with a postsynaptic protein  psd-95. these observations suggest the postsynaptic localization of these proteins. disruption of mtor signaling by rapamycin results in a reduction of late-phase ltp expression induced by high-frequency stimulation; the early phase of ltp is unaffected. rapamycin also blocks the synaptic potentiation induced by brain-derived neurotrophic factor in hippocampal slices. these results demonstrate an essential role for rapamycin-sensitive signaling in the expression of two forms of synaptic plasticity that require new protein synthesis. the localization of this translational signaling pathway at postsynaptic sites may provide a mechanism that controls local protein synthesis at potentiated synapses.
1841,functional inhibition of osteoblastic cells in an in vivo mouse model of myeloid leukemia.,pancytopenia is a major cause of morbidity in acute myeloid leukemia (aml)  yet its cause is unclear. normal osteoblastic cells have been shown to support hematopoiesis. to define the effects of leukemia on osteoblastic cells  we used an immunocompetent murine model of aml. leukemic mice had inhibition of osteoblastic cells  with decreased serum levels of the bone formation marker osteocalcin. osteoprogenitor cells and endosteal-lining osteopontin(+) cells were reduced  and osteocalcin mrna in cd45(-) marrow cells was diminished. this resulted in severe loss of mineralized bone. osteoclasts were only transiently increased without significant increases in bone resorption  and their inhibition only partially rescued leukemia-induced bone loss. in vitro data suggested that a leukemia-derived secreted factor inhibited osteoblastic cells. because the chemokine ccl-3 was recently reported to inhibit osteoblastic function in myeloma  we tested its expression in our model and in aml patients. consistent with its potential novel role in leukemic-dependent bone loss  ccl-3 mrna was significantly increased in malignant marrow cells from leukemic mice and from samples from aml patients. based on these results  we propose that therapeutic mitigation of leukemia-induced uncoupling of osteoblastic and osteoclastic cells may represent a novel approach to promote normal hematopoiesis in patients with myeloid neoplasms.
1843,cohort profile: the china health and retirement longitudinal study (charls).,the china health and retirement longitudinal study (charls) is a nationally representative longitudinal survey of persons in china 45 years of age or older and their spouses  including assessments of social  economic  and health circumstances of community-residents. charls examines health and economic adjustments to rapid ageing of the population in china. the national baseline survey for the study was conducted between june 2011 and march 2012 and involved 17 708 respondents. charls respondents are followed every 2 years  using a face-to-face computer-assisted personal interview (capi). physical measurements are made at every 2-year follow-up  and blood sample collection is done once in every two follow-up periods. a pilot survey for charls was conducted in two provinces of china in 2008  on 2685 individuals  who were resurveyed in 2012. to ensure the adoption of best practices and international comparability of results  charls was harmonized with leading international research studies in the health and retirement study (hrs) model. requests for collaborations should be directed to dr yaohui zhao (yhzhao@nsd.edu.cn). all data in charls are maintained at the national school of development of peking university and will be accessible to researchers around the world at the study website. the 2008 pilot data for charls are available at: http://charls.ccer.edu.cn/charls/. national baseline data for the study are expected to be released in january 2013.
1845,coordinated oscillations in cortical actin and ca2+ correlate with cycles of vesicle secretion,the actin cortex both facilitates and hinders the exocytosis of secretory granules. how cells consolidate these two opposing roles was not well understood. here we show that antigen activation of mast cells induces oscillations in ca(2+) and ptdins(4 5)p(2) lipid levels that in turn drive cyclic recruitment of n-wasp and cortical actin level oscillations. experimental and computational analysis argues that vesicle fusion correlates with the observed actin and ca(2+) level oscillations. a vesicle secretion cycle starts with the capture of vesicles by actin when cortical f-actin levels are high  followed by vesicle passage through the cortex when f-actin levels are low  and vesicle fusion with the plasma membrane when ca(2+) levels subsequently increase. thus  cells employ oscillating levels of ca(2+)  ptdins(4 5)p(2) and cortical f-actin to increase secretion efficiency  explaining how the actin cortex can function as a carrier as well as barrier for vesicle secretion.
1847,husbands' involvement in delivery care utilization in rural bangladesh: a qualitative study,background a primary cause of high maternal mortality in bangladesh is lack of access to professional delivery care. examining the role of the family  particularly the husband  during pregnancy and childbirth is important to understanding women's access to and utilization of professional maternal health services that can prevent maternal mortality. this qualitative study examines husbands' involvement during childbirth and professional delivery care utilization in a rural sub-district of netrokona district  bangladesh. methods using purposive sampling  ten households utilizing a skilled attendant during the birth of the youngest child were selected and matched with ten households utilizing an untrained traditional birth attendant  or dhatri. households were selected based on a set of inclusion criteria  such as approximate household income  ethnicity  and distance to the nearest hospital. twenty semi-structured interviews were conducted in bangla with husbands in these households in june 2010. interviews were transcribed  translated into english  and analyzed using nvivo 9.0. results by purposefully selecting households that differed on the type of provider utilized during delivery  common themes--high costs  poor transportation  and long distances to health facilities--were eliminated as sufficient barriers to the utilization of professional delivery care. divergent themes  namely husbands' social support and perceived social norms  were identified as underlying factors associated with delivery care utilization. we found that husbands whose wives utilized professional delivery care provided emotional  instrumental and informational support to their wives during delivery and believed that medical intervention was necessary. by contrast  husbands whose wives utilized an untrained dhatri at home were uninvolved during delivery and believed childbirth should take place at home according to local traditions. conclusions this study provides novel evidence about male involvement during childbirth in rural bangladesh. these findings have important implications for program planners  who should pursue culturally sensitive ways to involve husbands in maternal health interventions and assess the effectiveness of education strategies targeted at husbands.
1849,alterations in liver atp homeostasis in human nonalcoholic steatohepatitis: a pilot study.,context the mechanisms that drive progression from fatty liver to steatohepatitis and cirrhosis are unknown. in animal models  obese mice with fatty livers are vulnerable to liver adenosine triphosphate (atp) depletion and necrosis  suggesting that altered hepatic energy homeostasis may be involved. objective to determine if patients with fatty liver disease exhibit impaired recovery from hepatic atp depletion. design laboratory analysis of liver atp stores monitored by nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy before and after transient hepatic atp depletion was induced by fructose injection. the study was conducted between july 15 and august 30  1998. setting university hospital. patients eight consecutive adults with biopsy-proven nonalcoholic steatohepatitis and 7 healthy age- and sex-matched controls. main outcome measure level of atp 1 hour after fructose infusion in patients vs controls. results in patients  serum aminotransferase levels were increased (p = .02 vs controls); albumin and bilirubin values were normal and clinical evidence of portal hypertension was absent in both groups. however  2 patients had moderate fibrosis and 1 had cirrhosis on liver biopsy. mean serum glucose  cholesterol  and triglyceride levels were similar between groups but patients weighed significantly more than controls (p = .02). liver atp levels were similar in the 2 groups before fructose infusion and decreased similarly in both after fructose infusion (p = .01 vs initial atp levels). however  controls replenished their hepatic atp stores during the 1-hour follow-up period (p<.02 vs minimum atp) but patients did not. hence  patients' hepatic atp levels were lower than those of controls at the end of the study (p = .04). body mass index (bmi) correlated inversely with atp recovery  even in controls (r = -0.768; p = .07). although bmi was greater in patients than controls (p = .02) and correlated strongly with fatty liver and serum aminotransferase elevations  neither of the latter 2 parameters nor the histologic severity of fibrosis strongly predicted hepatic atp recovery. conclusions these data suggest that recovery from hepatic atp depletion becomes progressively less efficient as body mass increases in healthy controls and is severely impaired in patients with obesity-related nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.
1851,identifying common impairments in frail and dependent older people: validation of the cope assessment for non-specialised health workers in low resource primary health care settings,background frail and dependent older people in resource-poor settings are poorly served by health systems that lack outreach capacity. the cope (caring for older people) multidimensional assessment tool is designed to help community health workers (chws) identify clinically significant impairments and deliver evidence-based interventions   methods older people (n = 150) identified by chws as frail or dependent  were assessed at home by the chw using the structured cope assessment tool  generating information on impairments in nutrition  mobility  vision  hearing  continence  cognition  mood and behaviour. the older people were reassessed by local physicians who reached a clinical judgment regarding the presence or absence of the same impairments based upon clinical examination guided by the easy-care assessment tool. results the cope tool was considered easy to administer  and gave chws a sense of empowerment to understand and act upon the needs of older people. agreement between cope assessment by chw and clinician assessors was modest (ranged from 45.8 to 91.3 %) for most impairments. however  the prevalence of impairments was generally higher according to clinicians  particularly for visual impairment (98.7 vs 45.8 %)  cognitive impairment (78.4 vs. 38.2 %) and depression (82.0 vs. 59.9 %). most cases identified by who-cope were clinician confirmed (positive predictive values - 72.2 to 98.5 %)  and levels of disability and needs for care among those identified by cope were higher than those additionally identified by the clinician alone. conclusions the cope is a feasible tool for the identification of specific impairments in frail dependent older people in the community. those identified are likely to be confirmed as having clinically relevant problems by clinicians working in the same service  and the cope may be particularly effective at targeting attention upon those with the most substantial unmet needs.
1853,geometry  epistasis  and developmental patterning.,developmental signaling networks are composed of dozens of components whose interactions are very difficult to quantify in an embryo. geometric reasoning enumerates a discrete hierarchy of phenotypic models with a few composite variables whose parameters may be defined by in vivo data. vulval development in the nematode caenorhabditis elegans is a classic model for the integration of two signaling pathways; induction by egf and lateral signaling through notch. existing data for the relative probabilities of the three possible terminal cell types in diverse genetic backgrounds as well as timed ablation of the inductive signal favor one geometric model and suffice to fit most of its parameters. the model is fully dynamic and encompasses both signaling and commitment. it then predicts the correlated cell fate probabilities for a cross between any two backgrounds/conditions. the two signaling pathways are combined additively  without interactions  and epistasis only arises from the nonlinear dynamical flow in the landscape defined by the geometric model. in this way  the model quantitatively fits genetic experiments purporting to show mutual pathway repression. the model quantifies the contributions of extrinsic vs. intrinsic sources of noise in the penetrance of mutant phenotypes in signaling hypomorphs and explains available experiments with no additional parameters. data for anchor cell ablation fix the parameters needed to define notch autocrine signaling.
1855,high-throughput sequencing reveals extensive variation in human-specific l1 content in individual human genomes.,using high-throughput sequencing  we devised a technique to determine the insertion sites of virtually all members of the human-specific l1 retrotransposon family in any human genome. using diagnostic nucleotides  we were able to locate the approximately 800 l1hs copies corresponding specifically to the pre-ta  ta-0  and ta-1 l1hs subfamilies  with over 90% of sequenced reads corresponding to human-specific elements. we find that any two individual genomes differ at an average of 285 sites with respect to l1 insertion presence or absence. in total  we assayed 25 individuals  15 of which are unrelated  at 1139 sites  including 772 shared with the reference genome and 367 nonreference l1 insertions. we show that l1hs profiles recapitulate genetic ancestry  and determine the chromosomal distribution of these elements. using these data  we estimate that the rate of l1 retrotransposition in humans is between 1/95 and 1/270 births  and the number of dimorphic l1 elements in the human population with gene frequencies greater than 0.05 is between 3000 and 10 000.
1857,the curious case of the tumour virus: 50 years of burkitt's lymphoma,burkitt's lymphoma (bl) was first described 50 years ago  and the first human tumour virus epstein–barr virus (ebv) was discovered in bl tumours soon after. since then  the role of ebv in the development of bl has become more and more enigmatic. only recently have we finally begun to understand  at the cellular and molecular levels  the complex and interesting interaction of ebv with b cells that creates a predisposition for the development of bl. here  we discuss the intertwined histories of ebv and bl and their relationship to the cofactors in bl pathogenesis: malaria and the myc translocation.
1859,adhd medications and risk of serious cardiovascular events in young and middle-aged adults.,context more than 1.5 million us adults use stimulants and other medications labeled for treatment of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (adhd). these agents can increase heart rate and blood pressure  raising concerns about their cardiovascular safety. objective to examine whether current use of medications prescribed primarily to treat adhd is associated with increased risk of serious cardiovascular events in young and middle-aged adults. design  setting  and participants retrospective  population-based cohort study using electronic health care records from 4 study sites (optuminsight epidemiology  tennessee medicaid  kaiser permanente california  and the hmo research network)  starting in 1986 at 1 site and ending in 2005 at all sites  with additional covariate assessment using 2007 survey data. participants were adults aged 25 through 64 years with dispensed prescriptions for methylphenidate  amphetamine  or atomoxetine at baseline. each medication user (n = 150 359) was matched to 2 nonusers on study site  birth year  sex  and calendar year (443 198 total users and nonusers). main outcome measures serious cardiovascular events  including myocardial infarction (mi)  sudden cardiac death (scd)  or stroke  with comparison between current or new users and remote users to account for potential healthy-user bias. results during 806 182 person-years of follow-up (median  1.3 years per person)  1357 cases of mi  296 cases of scd  and 575 cases of stroke occurred. there were 107 322 person-years of current use (median  0.33 years)  with a crude incidence per 1000 person-years of 1.34 (95% ci  1.14-1.57) for mi  0.30 (95% ci  0.20-0.42) for scd  and 0.56 (95% ci  0.43-0.72) for stroke. the multivariable-adjusted rate ratio (rr) of serious cardiovascular events for current use vs nonuse of adhd medications was 0.83 (95% ci  0.72-0.96). among new users of adhd medications  the adjusted rr was 0.77 (95% ci  0.63-0.94). the adjusted rr for current use vs remote use was 1.03 (95% ci  0.86-1.24); for new use vs remote use  the adjusted rr was 1.02 (95% ci  0.82-1.28); the upper limit of 1.28 corresponds to an additional 0.19 events per 1000 person-years at ages 25-44 years and 0.77 events per 1000 person-years at ages 45-64 years. conclusions among young and middle-aged adults  current or new use of adhd medications  compared with nonuse or remote use  was not associated with an increased risk of serious cardiovascular events. apparent protective associations likely represent healthy-user bias.
1861,cell death from antibiotics without the involvement of reactive oxygen species.,recent observations have suggested that classic antibiotics kill bacteria by stimulating the formation of reactive oxygen species (ros). if true  this notion might guide new strategies to improve antibiotic efficacy. in this study  the model was directly tested. contrary to the hypothesis  antibiotic treatment did not accelerate the formation of hydrogen peroxide in escherichia coli and did not elevate intracellular free iron  an essential reactant for the production of lethal damage. lethality persisted in the absence of oxygen  and dna repair mutants were not hypersensitive  undermining the idea that toxicity arose from oxidative dna lesions. we conclude that these antibiotic exposures did not produce ros and that lethality more likely resulted from the direct inhibition of cell-wall assembly  protein synthesis  and dna replication.
1863,experimental evolution of an rna virus in wild birds: evidence for host-dependent impacts on population structure and competitive fitness,within hosts  rna viruses form populations that are genetically and phenotypically complex. heterogeneity in rna virus genomes arises due to error-prone replication and is reduced by stochastic and selective mechanisms that are incompletely understood. defining how natural selection shapes rna virus populations is critical because it can inform treatment paradigms and enhance control efforts. we allowed west nile virus (wnv) to replicate in wild-caught american crows  house sparrows and american robins to assess how natural selection shapes rna virus populations in ecologically relevant hosts that differ in susceptibility to virus-induced mortality. after five sequential passages in each bird species  we examined the phenotype and population diversity of wnv through fitness competition assays and next generation sequencing. we demonstrate that fitness gains occur in a species-specific manner  with the greatest replicative fitness gains in robin-passaged wnv and the least in wnv passaged in crows. sequencing data revealed that intrahost wnv populations were strongly influenced by purifying selection and the overall complexity of the viral populations was similar among passaged hosts. however  the selective pressures that control wnv populations seem to be bird species-dependent. specifically  crow-passaged wnv populations contained the most unique mutations (~1.7× more than sparrows  ~3.4× more than robins) and defective genomes (~1.4× greater than sparrows  ~2.7× greater than robins)  but the lowest average mutation frequency (about equal to sparrows  ~2.6× lower than robins). therefore  our data suggest that wnv replication in the most disease-susceptible bird species is positively associated with virus mutational tolerance  likely via complementation  and negatively associated with the strength of selection. these differences in genetic composition most likely have distinct phenotypic consequences for the virus populations. taken together  these results reveal important insights into how different hosts may contribute to the emergence of rna viruses.
1865,migratory dendritic cells transfer antigen to a lymph node-resident dendritic cell population for efficient ctl priming.,skin dendritic cells (dcs) are thought to act as key initiators of local t cell immunity. here we show that after skin infection with herpes simplex virus (hsv)  cytotoxic t lymphocyte (ctl) activation required mhc class i-restricted presentation by nonmigratory cd8(+) dcs rather than skin-derived dcs. despite a lack of direct presentation by migratory dcs  blocking their egress from infected skin substantially inhibited class i-restricted presentation and hsv-specific ctl responses. these results support the argument for initial transport of antigen by migrating dcs  followed by its transfer to the lymphoid-resident dcs for presentation and ctl priming. given that relatively robust ctl responses were seen with small numbers of skin-emigrant dcs  we propose that this inter-dc antigen transfer functions to amplify presentation across a larger network of lymphoid-resident dcs for efficient t cell activation.
1867,unifying viral genetics and human transportation data to predict the global transmission dynamics of human influenza h3n2,information on global human movement patterns is central to spatial epidemiological models used to predict the behavior of influenza and other infectious diseases. yet it remains difficult to test which modes of dispersal drive pathogen spread at various geographic scales using standard epidemiological data alone. evolutionary analyses of pathogen genome sequences increasingly provide insights into the spatial dynamics of influenza viruses  but to date they have largely neglected the wealth of information on human mobility  mainly because no statistical framework exists within which viral gene sequences and empirical data on host movement can be combined. here  we address this problem by applying a phylogeographic approach to elucidate the global spread of human influenza subtype h3n2 and assess its ability to predict the spatial spread of human influenza a viruses worldwide. using a framework that estimates the migration history of human influenza while simultaneously testing and quantifying a range of potential predictive variables of spatial spread  we show that the global dynamics of influenza h3n2 are driven by air passenger flows  whereas at more local scales spread is also determined by processes that correlate with geographic distance. our analyses further confirm a central role for mainland china and southeast asia in maintaining a source population for global influenza diversity. by comparing model output with the known pandemic expansion of h1n1 during 2009  we demonstrate that predictions of influenza spatial spread are most accurate when data on human mobility and viral evolution are integrated. in conclusion  the global dynamics of influenza viruses are best explained by combining human mobility data with the spatial information inherent in sampled viral genomes. the integrated approach introduced here offers great potential for epidemiological surveillance through phylogeographic reconstructions and for improving predictive models of disease control.
1869,a pharmacological map of the pi3-k family defines a role for p110α in insulin signaling,phosphoinositide 3-kinases (pi3-ks) are an important emerging class of drug targets  but the unique roles of pi3-k isoforms remain poorly defined. we describe here an approach to pharmacologically interrogate the pi3-k family. a chemically diverse panel of pi3-k inhibitors was synthesized  and their target selectivity was biochemically enumerated  revealing cryptic homologies across targets and chemotypes. crystal structures of three inhibitors bound to p110gamma identify a conformationally mobile region that is uniquely exploited by selective compounds. this chemical array was then used to define the pi3-k isoforms required for insulin signaling. we find that p110alpha is the primary insulin-responsive pi3-k in cultured cells  whereas p110beta is dispensable but sets a phenotypic threshold for p110alpha activity. compounds targeting p110alpha block the acute effects of insulin treatment in vivo  whereas a p110beta inhibitor has no effect. these results illustrate systematic target validation using a matrix of inhibitors that span a protein family.
1871,primary prevention of hypertension: clinical and public health advisory from the national high blood pressure education program.,the national high blood pressure education program coordinating committee published its first statement on the primary prevention of hypertension in 1993. this article updates the 1993 report  using new and further evidence from the scientific literature. current recommendations for primary prevention of hypertension involve a population-based approach and an intensive targeted strategy focused on individuals at high risk for hypertension. these 2 strategies are complementary and emphasize 6 approaches with proven efficacy for prevention of hypertension: engage in moderate physical activity; maintain normal body weight; limit alcohol consumption; reduce sodium intake; maintain adequate intake of potassium; and consume a diet rich in fruits  vegetables  and low-fat dairy products and reduced in saturated and total fat. applying these approaches to the general population as a component of public health and clinical practice can help prevent blood pressure from increasing and can help decrease elevated blood pressure levels for those with high normal blood pressure or hypertension.
1873,genetic variability in glp-1 receptor is associated with inter-individual differences in weight lowering potential of liraglutide in obese women with pcos: a pilot study,the weight lowering potential of glucagon-like peptide 1 (glp-1) receptor agonists (ras) is inter-individually different and clinically unpredictable. the potential role of genetic variability of glp-1r on body weight response to glp-1 ras in obese women with polycystic ovary syndrome (pcos) has not yet been evaluated. fifty-seven obese women with pcos (aged 30.7 ± 7.0  bmi 38.6 ± 5.3 kg/m2) were assigned to liraglutide 1.2 mg qd s.c. for 12 weeks and classified as strong responders regarding weight loss if they lost 5 % or more of their initial body weight. they were genotyped for common glp-1r single nucleotide polymorphisms (snps) rs6923761 and rs10305420. changes of measures of obesity were measured before and at the end of the treatment. twenty out of 57 subjects were strong responders and lost 7.38 ± 1.74 compared to 2.11 ± 2.17 kg lost in poor responders. carriers of at least one polymorphic rs10305420 allele had poor treatment response compared to carriers of two wild type alleles (or = 0.27  95 % ci = 0.09–0.85  p = 0.025). carriers of at least one polymorphic rs6923761 allele tended to have stronger treatment response compared to carriers of two wild type alleles (or = 3.06  95 % ci = 0.96–9.74  p = 0.058). fasting glucose and glucose after oral glucose tolerance test (ogtt) comparably decreased in both groups when compared to baseline  whereas no within treatment differences were found in androgen profile. gastrointestinal adverse events were transit and balanced between strong and poor responders. glp-1r rs10305420 polymorphism explained some of the inter-individual differences in response to liraglutide regarding weight loss in obese pcos women.
1875,the cost effectiveness of stereotactic radiosurgery versus surgical resection in the treatment of solitary metastatic brain tumors.,solitary metastatic brain tumors are the most common intracranial neoplasms encountered by neurosurgeons. surgical resection of brain metastasis with whole brain radiotherapy (wbr) significantly increases survival in comparison with wbr alone. stereotactic radiosurgery (sr) seems to provide results that are similar to those of surgical resection. to analyze the economic efficiency of these different treatments  we compared the results of surgical resection and sr as reported in the medical literature between 1974 and 1994. we included studies in which: 1) at least 75% of patients received wbr; 2) study dates were in the computed tomography era (after 1975); 3) operative morbidity  mortality  and median survival were reported; 4) study dates were not included in a more recent update or review; 5) tumor histologies were reported; and 6) the cobalt-60 gamma unit was used for sr. three surgical resection studies and one sr study met all entry requirements. the wbr baseline was developed from two prospective  randomized trials and used for incremental cost effectiveness analysis. we developed a model of typical resource usage for uncomplicated procedures  reported complications  and subsequent craniotomies (for recurrent tumor or radiation necrosis) for both treatment options. costs were estimated from the societal viewpoint using the 1992 medicare provider analysis and review database with average cost:charge ratios for surgery and wbr. a survey of capital and operating costs from five sites was used for radiosurgery. our analysis revealed that radiosurgery had a lower uncomplicated procedure cost ($20 209 versus $27 587)  a lower average complication cost per case ($2 534 versus $2 874)  and a lower total cost per procedure ($22 743 versus $30 461)  was more cost effective ($24 811 versus $32 149 per life year)  and had a better incremental cost effectiveness ($40 648 versus $52 384 per life year) than surgical resection. a sensitivity analysis revealed that large changes in key assumptions would be required to change the analysis outcome. equalization of the incremental cost effectiveness of the two treatments would require one of the following: 1) a 38.7% reduction in sr annual case volume  2) a 34.7% increase in sr procedure cost  3) a 18.8% reduction in surgical resection procedure cost  4) a 240.5% increase in sr morbidity cost  5) a 12.7% reduction in sr median survival  6) a 16.8% increase in surgical resection median survival. elimination of all surgical resection morbidity cost would still result in superior incremental cost effectiveness for sr.(abstract truncated at 400 words)
1877,organization of the mitotic chromosome.,mitotic chromosomes are among the most recognizable structures in the cell  yet for over a century their internal organization remains largely unsolved. we applied chromosome conformation capture methods  5c and hi-c  across the cell cycle and revealed two distinct three-dimensional folding states of the human genome. we show that the highly compartmentalized and cell type-specific organization described previously for nonsynchronous cells is restricted to interphase. in metaphase  we identified a homogenous folding state that is locus-independent  common to all chromosomes  and consistent among cell types  suggesting a general principle of metaphase chromosome organization. using polymer simulations  we found that metaphase hi-c data are inconsistent with classic hierarchical models and are instead best described by a linearly organized longitudinally compressed array of consecutive chromatin loops.
1879,quantum dots spectrally distinguish multiple species within the tumor milieu in vivo,a solid tumor is an organ composed of cancer and host cells embedded in an extracellular matrix and nourished by blood vessels. a prerequisite to understanding tumor pathophysiology is the ability to distinguish and monitor each component in dynamic studies. standard fluorophores hamper simultaneous intravital imaging of these components. here  we used multiphoton microscopy techniques and transgenic mice that expressed green fluorescent protein  and combined them with the use of quantum dot preparations. we show that these fluorescent semiconductor nanocrystals can be customized to concurrently image and differentiate tumor vessels from both the perivascular cells and the matrix. moreover  we used them to measure the ability of particles of different sizes to access the tumor. finally  we successfully monitored the recruitment of quantum dot–labeled bone marrow–derived precursor cells to the tumor vasculature. these examples show the versatility of quantum dots for studying tumor pathophysiology and creating avenues for treatment.
1881,opposing effects of pkcθ and wasp on symmetry breaking and relocation of the immunological synapse,the immunological synapse (is) is a junction between the t cell and antigen-presenting cell and is composed of supramolecular activation clusters (smacs). no studies have been published on naive t cell is dynamics. here  we find that is formation during antigen recognition comprises cycles of stable is formation and autonomous naive t cell migration. the migration phase is driven by pkctheta  which is localized to the f-actin-dependent peripheral (p)smac. pkctheta(-/-) t cells formed hyperstable is in vitro and in vivo and  like wt cells  displayed fast oscillations in the distal smac  but they showed reduced slow oscillations in psmac integrity. is reformation is driven by the wiscott aldrich syndrome protein (wasp). wasp(-/-) t cells displayed normal is formation but were unable to reform is after migration unless pkctheta was inhibited. thus  opposing effects of pkctheta and wasp control is stability through psmac symmetry breaking and reformation.
1883,consumption of added sugars from liquid but not solid sources predicts impaired glucose homeostasis and insulin resistance among youth at risk of obesity.,little is known about longitudinal associations between added sugar consumption (solid and liquid sources) and glucose-insulin homeostasis among youth. caucasian children (8-10 y) with at least one obese biological parent were recruited in the québec adipose and lifestyle investigation in youth (quality) cohort (n = 630) and followed-up 2 y later (n = 564). added sugars were assessed by 3 24-h dietary recalls at baseline. two-year changes were examined in multivariate linear regression models  adjusting for baseline level  age  sex  tanner stage  energy intake  fat mass (dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry)  and physical activity (7 d accelerometer). added sugar intake in either liquid or solid sources was not related to changes in adiposity measures (fat mass  body mass index  or waist circumference). however  a higher consumption (10 g/d) of added sugars from liquid sources was associated with 0.04 mmol/l higher fasting glucose  2.3 pmol/l higher fasting insulin  0.1 unit higher homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance (homa-ir)  and 0.4 unit lower matsuda-insulin sensitivity index (matsuda-isi) in all participants (p < 0.01). no associations were observed with consumption of added sugars from solid sources. overweight/obese children at baseline had greater increases in adiposity indicators  fasting insulin  and homa-ir and decreases in matsuda-isi during those 2 y than normal-weight children. consumption of added sugars from liquid or solid sources was not associated with changes in adiposity  but liquid added sugars were a risk factor for the development of impaired glucose homeostasis and insulin resistance over 2 y among youth at risk of obesity.
1885,pivotal roles of t-helper 17-related cytokines  il-17  il-22  and il-23  in inflammatory diseases,t-helper 17 (th17) cells are characterized by producing interleukin-17 (il-17  also called il-17a)  il-17f  il-21  and il-22 and potentially tnf- α and il-6 upon certain stimulation. il-23  which promotes th17 cell development  as well as il-17 and il-22 produced by the th17 cells plays essential roles in various inflammatory diseases  such as experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis  rheumatoid arthritis  colitis  and concanavalin a-induced hepatitis. in this review  we summarize the characteristics of the functional role of th17 cells  with particular focus on the th17 cell-related cytokines such as il-17  il-22  and il-23  in mouse models and human inflammatory diseases.
1887,kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus/human herpesvirus type 8-positive solid lymphomas: a tissue-based variant of primary effusion lymphoma.,kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (kshv)  also termed human herpesvirus type 8  is consistently identified in kaposi's sarcoma  primary effusion lymphoma (pel)  and multicentric castleman's disease. here we report four cases of kshv-bearing solid lymphomas that occurred in aids patients (cases 1 to 3) and in a human immunodeficiency virus (hiv)-seronegative person (case 4). the patients presented extranodal masses in the abdomen (cases 1  3  and 4) or skin (case 2)  and nodal involvement  together with kaposi's sarcoma (case 3). the gastrointestinal tract was involved in two patients (cases 1 and 3). the patients did not develop a lymphomatous effusion. kshv was detected in the tumor cells of all cases by immunohistochemistry and by polymerase chain reaction. epstein-barr virus was detected in two of the hiv-related cases. all kshv-positive solid lymphomas exhibited pel-like cell morphology. to investigate the relationship of these disorders to pel and to other aids-associated diffuse large cell lymphomas  kshv-positive solid lymphomas were tested for the expression of a set of genes that were previously shown by gene profiling analysis to define pel tumor cells. the results showed that expression of this set of genes in kshv-positive lymphomas is similar to that of pel but distinct from kshv-negative aids-associated diffuse large cell lymphomas. because pathobiological features of kshv-positive solid lymphomas closely mimic those of pel  our results suggest that kshv-positive solid lymphomas should be considered as a tissue-based variant of classical pel  irrespective of hiv status.
1889,effect of alendronate on risk of fracture in women with low bone density but without vertebral fractures: results from the fracture intervention trial.,context alendronate sodium reduces fracture risk in postmenopausal women who have vertebral fractures  but its effects on fracture risk have not been studied for women without vertebral fractures. objective to test the hypothesis that 4 years of alendronate would decrease the risk of clinical and vertebral fractures in women who have low bone mineral density (bmd) but no vertebral fractures. design randomized  blinded  placebo-controlled trial. setting eleven community-based clinical research centers. subjects women aged 54 to 81 years with a femoral neck bmd of 0.68 g/cm2 or less (hologic inc  waltham  mass) but no vertebral fracture; 4432 were randomized to alendronate or placebo and 4272 (96%) completed outcome measurements at the final visit (an average of 4.2 years later). intervention all participants reporting calcium intakes of 1000 mg/d or less received a supplement containing 500 mg of calcium and 250 iu of cholecalciferol. subjects were randomly assigned to either placebo or 5 mg/d of alendronate sodium for 2 years followed by 10 mg/d for the remainder of the trial. main outcome measures clinical fractures confirmed by x-ray reports  new vertebral deformities detected by morphometric measurements on radiographs  and bmd measured by dual x-ray absorptiometry. results alendronate increased bmd at all sites studied (p<.001) and reduced clinical fractures from 312 in the placebo group to 272 in the intervention group  but not significantly so (14% reduction; relative hazard [rh]  0.86; 95% confidence interval [ci]  0.73-1.01). alendronate reduced clinical fractures by 36% in women with baseline osteoporosis at the femoral neck (>2.5 sds below the normal young adult mean; rh  0.64; 95% ci  0.50-0.82; treatment-control difference  6.5%; number needed to treat [nnt]  15)  but there was no significant reduction among those with higher bmd (rh  1.08; 95% ci  0.87-1.35). alendronate decreased the risk of radiographic vertebral fractures by 44% overall (relative risk  0.56; 95% ci  0.39-0.80; treatment-control difference  1.7%; nnt  60). alendronate did not increase the risk of gastrointestinal or other adverse effects. conclusions in women with low bmd but without vertebral fractures  4 years of alendronate safely increased bmd and decreased the risk of first vertebral deformity. alendronate significantly reduced the risk of clinical fractures among women with osteoporosis but not among women with higher bmd.
1891,update of the fantom web resource: high resolution transcriptome of diverse cell types in mammals,upon the first publication of the fifth iteration of the functional annotation of mammalian genomes collaborative project  fantom5  we gathered a series of primary data and database systems into the fantom web resource (http://fantom.gsc.riken.jp) to facilitate researchers to explore transcriptional regulation and cellular states. in the course of the collaboration  primary data and analysis results have been expanded  and functionalities of the database systems enhanced. we believe that our data and web systems are invaluable resources  and we think the scientific community will benefit for this recent update to deepen their understanding of mammalian cellular organization. we introduce the contents of fantom5 here  report recent updates in the web resource and provide future perspectives.
1893,presynaptically localized cyclic gmp-dependent protein kinase 1 is a key determinant of spinal synaptic potentiation and pain hypersensitivity,synaptic long-term potentiation (ltp) at spinal neurons directly communicating pain-specific inputs from the periphery to the brain has been proposed to serve as a trigger for pain hypersensitivity in pathological states. previous studies have functionally implicated the nmda receptor-no pathway and the downstream second messenger  cgmp  in these processes. because cgmp can broadly influence diverse ion-channels  kinases  and phosphodiesterases  pre- as well as post-synaptically  the precise identity of cgmp targets mediating spinal ltp  their mechanisms of action  and their locus in the spinal circuitry are still unclear. here  we found that protein kinase g1 (pkg-i) localized presynaptically in nociceptor terminals plays an essential role in the expression of spinal ltp. using the cre-lox p system  we generated nociceptor-specific knockout mice lacking pkg-i specifically in presynaptic terminals of nociceptors in the spinal cord  but not in post-synaptic neurons or elsewhere (sns-pkg-i(-/-) mice). patch clamp recordings showed that activity-induced ltp at identified synapses between nociceptors and spinal neurons projecting to the periaqueductal grey (pag) was completely abolished in sns-pkg-i(-/-) mice  although basal synaptic transmission was not affected. analyses of synaptic failure rates and paired-pulse ratios indicated a role for presynaptic pkg-i in regulating the probability of neurotransmitter release. inositol 1 4 5-triphosphate receptor 1 and myosin light chain kinase were recruited as key phosphorylation targets of presynaptic pkg-i in nociceptive neurons. finally  behavioural analyses in vivo showed marked defects in sns-pkg-i(-/-) mice in several models of activity-induced nociceptive hypersensitivity  and pharmacological studies identified a clear contribution of pkg-i expressed in spinal terminals of nociceptors. our results thus indicate that presynaptic mechanisms involving an increase in release probability from nociceptors are operational in the expression of synaptic ltp on spinal-pag projection neurons and that pkg-i localized in presynaptic nociceptor terminals plays an essential role in this process to regulate pain sensitivity.
1895,protein-protein interaction inhibition (2p2i)-oriented chemical library accelerates hit discovery.,protein-protein interactions (ppis) represent an enormous source of opportunity for therapeutic intervention. we and others have recently pinpointed key rules that will help in identifying the next generation of innovative drugs to tackle this challenging class of targets within the next decade. we used these rules to design an oriented chemical library corresponding to a set of diverse "ppi-like" modulators with cores identified as privileged structures in therapeutics. in this work  we purchased the resulting 1664 structurally diverse compounds and evaluated them on a series of representative protein-protein interfaces with distinct "druggability" potential using homogeneous time-resolved fluorescence (htrf) technology. for certain ppi classes  analysis of the hit rates revealed up to 100 enrichment factors compared with nonoriented chemical libraries. this observation correlates with the predicted "druggability" of the targets. a specific focus on selectivity profiles  the three-dimensional (3d) molecular modes of action resolved by x-ray crystallography  and the biological activities of identified hits targeting the well-defined "druggable" bromodomains of the bromo and extraterminal (bet) family are presented as a proof-of-concept. overall  our present study illustrates the potency of machine learning-based oriented chemical libraries to accelerate the identification of hits targeting ppis. a generalization of this method to a larger set of compounds will accelerate the discovery of original and potent probes for this challenging class of targets.
1897,identification of indole-3-carboxylic acid as mediator of priming against plectosphaerella cucumerina.,plant resistance against the necrotrophic pathogen plectosphaerella cucumerina is mediated by a combination of several hormonal-controlled signalling pathways. the priming agent β-aminobutyric acid (baba) is able to induce effective resistance against this pathogen by stimulating callose-rich cell wall depositions. in the present research it is demonstrated that baba-induced resistance (baba-ir) against p. cucumerina in arabidopsis has additional components such as the induction of defences mediated by indolic derivatives. chromatographic approach for the detection and characterization of metabolites enhanced by baba compared with water-treated plants only when the challenge is present has been developed. the metabolites matching this criteria are considered to be primed by baba. the analytic procedure is based on the combination of liquid chromatography (lc) with a triple quadrupole (tqd) detector in a precursor ion scanning mode. using this analytical system a signal in negative electro-spray mode of 160 m/z is primed by baba in infected plants. a subsequent exact mass analysis in a quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometer demonstrated that this ion was the indole-derivative metabolite indole-3-carboxylic acid (i3ca). the identity of indole-3-carboxilic acid was definitively confirmed by comparing its retention time and fragmentation spectra with a commercial standard. quantification of i3ca in primed plants showed that this indolic metabolite is specifically primed by baba upon p. cucumerina infection  while other indolic compounds such as iaa and camalexin are not. taking together these observations with the known role of callose in priming against this pathogen  suggests that priming is not a single mechanism but rather a multicomponent defence.
1899,metabolic regulation by the mitochondrial phosphatase ptpmt1 is required for hematopoietic stem cell differentiation.,the regulation and coordination of mitochondrial metabolism with hematopoietic stem cell (hsc) self-renewal and differentiation is not fully understood. here we report that depletion of ptpmt1  a pten-like mitochondrial phosphatase  in inducible or hematopoietic-cell-specific knockout mice resulted in hematopoietic failure due to changes in the cell cycle and a block in the differentiation of hscs. surprisingly  the hsc pool was increased by ∼40-fold in ptpmt1 knockout mice. reintroduction of wild-type ptpmt1  but not catalytically deficient ptpmt1 or truncated ptpmt1 lacking mitochondrial localization  restored differentiation capabilities of ptpmt1 knockout hscs. further analyses demonstrated that ptpmt1 deficiency altered mitochondrial metabolism and that phosphatidylinositol phosphate substrates of ptpmt1 directly enhanced fatty-acid-induced activation of mitochondrial uncoupling protein 2. intriguingly  depletion of ptpmt1 from myeloid  t lymphoid  or b lymphoid progenitors did not cause any defects in lineage-specific knockout mice. this study establishes a crucial role of ptpmt1 in the metabolic regulation of hsc function.
1901,nets are a source of citrullinated autoantigens and stimulate inflammatory responses in rheumatoid arthritis.,the early events leading to the development of rheumatoid arthritis (ra) remain unclear  but formation of autoantibodies to citrullinated protein antigens (acpas) is considered a key pathogenic event. neutrophils isolated from patients with various autoimmune diseases display enhanced neutrophil extracellular trap (net) formation  a phenomenon that exposes autoantigens in the context of immunostimulatory molecules. we investigated whether aberrant netosis occurs in ra  determined its triggers  and examined its deleterious inflammatory consequences. enhanced netosis was observed in circulating and ra synovial fluid neutrophils compared to neutrophils from healthy controls and from patients with osteoarthritis (oa). further  netting neutrophils infiltrated ra synovial tissue  rheumatoid nodules  and skin. netosis correlated with acpa presence and levels and with systemic inflammatory markers. ra sera and immunoglobulin fractions from ra patients with high levels of acpa and/or rheumatoid factor significantly enhanced netosis  and the nets induced by these autoantibodies displayed distinct protein content. indeed  during netosis  neutrophils externalized the citrullinated autoantigens implicated in ra pathogenesis  and anti-citrullinated vimentin antibodies potently induced net formation. moreover  the inflammatory cytokines interleukin-17a (il-17a) and tumor necrosis factor-α (tnf-α) induced netosis in ra neutrophils. in turn  nets significantly augmented inflammatory responses in ra and oa synovial fibroblasts  including induction of il-6  il-8  chemokines  and adhesion molecules. these observations implicate accelerated netosis in ra pathogenesis  through externalization of citrullinated autoantigens and immunostimulatory molecules that may promote aberrant adaptive and innate immune responses in the joint and in the periphery  and perpetuate pathogenic mechanisms in this disease.
1903,trophoblast differentiation defect in human embryonic stem cells lacking pig-a and gpi-anchored cell-surface proteins.,pluripotent human embryonic stem (hes) cells can differentiate into various cell types derived from the three embryonic germ layers and extraembryonic tissues such as trophoblasts. the mechanisms governing lineage choices of hes cells are largely unknown. here  we report that we established two independent hes cell clones lacking a group of cell surface molecules  glycosyl-phosphatidyl-inositol-anchored proteins (gpi-aps). the gpi-ap deficiency in these two hes clones is due to the deficiency in the gene expression of pig-a (phosphatidyl-inositol-glycan class a)  which is required for the first step of gpi synthesis. gpi-ap-deficient hes cells were capable of forming embryoid bodies and initiating cell differentiation into the three embryonic germ layers. however  gpi-ap-deficient hes cells failed to form trophoblasts after differentiation induction by embryoid body formation or by adding exogenous bmp4. the defect in trophoblast formation was due to the lack of gpi-anchored bmp coreceptors  resulting in the impairment of full bmp4 signaling activation in the gpi-ap-deficient hes cells. these data reveal that gpi-ap-enhanced full activation of bmp signaling is required for human trophoblast formation.
1905,development of leukemia in donor cells after allogeneic stem cell transplantation--a survey of the european group for blood and marrow transplantation (ebmt).,leukemia in donor cells (donor cell leukemia; dcl) has been reported as a rare but severe complication of allogeneic stem cell transplantation (sct). however  the incidence  potential pathogenetic factors  therapeutic options and outcome of patients suffering from dcl and the leukemia risk of their donors are not well defined. a questionnaire survey was carried out within european blood and marrow transplantation group (ebmt) centers. ninety-one ebmt centers participated in this survey  covering 10489 allogeneic sct between 12/1982 and 09/2003. fourteen cases of dcl  most with a myeloid phenotype (7 cases of acute myeloid leukemia  3 each of acute lymphocytic leukemia and 1 case of chronic myeloid leukemia) were identified. demonstration of donor cell origin included molecular analysis of chimerism in most cases. dcl type and cytogenetic alterations were independent from the original disease. the median time between transplantation and diagnosis of dcl was 17 months (4-164). no type of conditioning  donor  graft manipulation  graft-versus-host disease prophylaxis or subsequent complications were identified as risk factors for dcl. chemotherapy induced remissions in dcl and 2 of 5 patients remain alive in remission after a second transplant. none of the stem cell donors developed hematologic malignancies (median follow-up period of 9 years; range 6-30 years). dcl is an extremely rare complication of allogeneic sct in which treatment attempts with chemotherapy and a second sct are justified. donors are not at an increased risk of developing hematologic malignancies.
1907,large-scale hypomethylated blocks associated with epstein-barr virus-induced b-cell immortalization.,altered dna methylation occurs ubiquitously in human cancer from the earliest measurable stages. a cogent approach to understanding the mechanism and timing of altered dna methylation is to analyze it in the context of carcinogenesis by a defined agent. epstein-barr virus (ebv) is a human oncogenic herpesvirus associated with lymphoma and nasopharyngeal carcinoma  but also used commonly in the laboratory to immortalize human b-cells in culture. here we have performed whole-genome bisulfite sequencing of normal b-cells  activated b-cells  and ebv-immortalized b-cells from the same three individuals  in order to identify the impact of transformation on the methylome. surprisingly  large-scale hypomethylated blocks comprising two-thirds of the genome were induced by ebv immortalization but not by b-cell activation per se. these regions largely corresponded to hypomethylated blocks that we have observed in human cancer  and they were associated with gene-expression hypervariability  similar to human cancer  and consistent with a model of epigenomic change promoting tumor cell heterogeneity. we also describe small-scale changes in dna methylation near cpg islands. these results suggest that methylation disruption is an early and critical step in malignant transformation.
1909,effects of interventions in pregnancy on maternal weight and obstetric outcomes: meta-analysis of randomised evidence,objective to evaluate the effects of dietary and lifestyle interventions in pregnancy on maternal and fetal weight and to quantify the effects of these interventions on obstetric outcomes. design systematic review and meta-analysis. data sources major databases from inception to january 2012 without language restrictions. study selection randomised controlled trials that evaluated any dietary or lifestyle interventions with potential to influence maternal weight during pregnancy and outcomes of pregnancy. data synthesis results summarised as relative risks for dichotomous data and mean differences for continuous data. results we identified 44 relevant randomised controlled trials (7278 women) evaluating three categories of interventions: diet  physical activity  and a mixed approach. overall  there was 1.42 kg reduction (95% confidence interval 0.95 to 1.89 kg) in gestational weight gain with any intervention compared with control. with all interventions combined  there were no significant differences in birth weight (mean difference -50 g  -100 to 0 g) and the incidence of large for gestational age (relative risk 0.85  0.66 to 1.09) or small for gestational age (1.00  0.78 to 1.28) babies between the groups  though by itself physical activity was associated with reduced birth weight (mean difference -60 g  -120 to -10 g). interventions were associated with a reduced the risk of pre-eclampsia (0.74  0.60 to 0.92) and shoulder dystocia (0.39  0.22 to 0.70)  with no significant effect on other critically important outcomes. dietary intervention resulted in the largest reduction in maternal gestational weight gain (3.84 kg  2.45 to 5.22 kg)  with improved pregnancy outcomes compared with other interventions. the overall evidence rating was low to very low for important outcomes such as pre-eclampsia  gestational diabetes  gestational hypertension  and preterm delivery. conclusions dietary and lifestyle interventions in pregnancy can reduce maternal gestational weight gain and improve outcomes for both mother and baby. among the interventions  those based on diet are the most effective and are associated with reductions in maternal gestational weight gain and improved obstetric outcomes.
1911,reorganization of enhancer patterns in transition from naive to primed pluripotency.,naive and primed pluripotency is characterized by distinct signaling requirements  transcriptomes  and developmental properties  but both cellular states share key transcriptional regulators: oct4  sox2  and nanog. here  we demonstrate that transition between these two pluripotent states is associated with widespread oct4 relocalization  mirrored by global rearrangement of enhancer chromatin landscapes. our genomic and biochemical analyses identified candidate mediators of primed state-specific oct4 binding  including otx2 and zic2/3. even when differentiation cues are blocked  premature otx2 overexpression is sufficient to exit the naive state  induce transcription of a substantial subset of primed pluripotency-associated genes  and redirect oct4 to previously inaccessible enhancer sites. however  the ability of otx2 to engage new enhancer regions is determined by its levels  cis-encoded properties of the sites  and the signaling environment. our results illuminate regulatory mechanisms underlying pluripotency and suggest that the capacity of transcription factors such as otx2 and oct4 to pioneer new enhancer sites is highly context dependent.
1913,bromodomain proteins contribute to maintenance of bloodstream form stage identity in the african trypanosome,trypanosoma brucei  the causative agent of african sleeping sickness  is transmitted to its mammalian host by the tsetse. in the fly  the parasite's surface is covered with invariant procyclin  while in the mammal it resides extracellularly in its bloodstream form (bf) and is densely covered with highly immunogenic variant surface glycoprotein (vsg). in the bf  the parasite varies this highly immunogenic surface vsg using a repertoire of ~2500 distinct vsg genes. recent reports in mammalian systems point to a role for histone acetyl-lysine recognizing bromodomain proteins in the maintenance of stem cell fate  leading us to hypothesize that bromodomain proteins may maintain the bf cell fate in trypanosomes. using small-molecule inhibitors and genetic mutants for individual bromodomain proteins  we performed rna-seq experiments that revealed changes in the transcriptome similar to those seen in cells differentiating from the bf to the insect stage. this was recapitulated at the protein level by the appearance of insect-stage proteins on the cell surface. furthermore  bromodomain inhibition disrupts two major bf-specific immune evasion mechanisms that trypanosomes harness to evade mammalian host antibody responses. first  monoallelic expression of the antigenically varied vsg is disrupted. second  rapid internalization of antibodies bound to vsg on the surface of the trypanosome is blocked. thus  our studies reveal a role for trypanosome bromodomain proteins in maintaining bloodstream stage identity and immune evasion. importantly  bromodomain inhibition leads to a decrease in virulence in a mouse model of infection  establishing these proteins as potential therapeutic drug targets for trypanosomiasis. our 1.25å resolution crystal structure of a trypanosome bromodomain in complex with i-bet151 reveals a novel binding mode of the inhibitor  which serves as a promising starting point for rational drug design.
1915,predominance of type 1 innate lymphoid cells in the rectal mucosa of patients with non-celiac wheat sensitivity: reversal after a wheat-free diet,objectives non-celiac wheat sensitivity (ncws) is defined as a reaction to ingested wheat after exclusion of celiac disease and wheat allergy. as its pathogenesis is incompletely understood  we evaluated the inflammatory response in the rectal mucosa of patients with well-defined ncws. methods the prospective study included 22 patients with irritable bowel syndrome (ibs)-like clinical presentation  diagnosed with ncws by double-blind placebo-controlled challenge. eight ibs patients not improving on wheat-free diet were used as controls. two weeks after oral challenge was performed with 80 grams of wheat daily  cells were isolated from rectal biopsies and thoroughly characterized by fluorescence-activated cell sorting analysis for intracellular cytokines and surface markers. results rectal biopsies from wheat-challenged ncws patients showed that a significant mucosal cd45(+) infiltrate consisted of cd3(+) and cd3(-) lymphocytes  with the latter spontaneously producing more interferon (ifn)-γ than ibs controls. about 30% of ifn-γ-producing cd45(+) cells were t-bet(+)  cd56(-)  nkp44(-)  and cd117(-)  defining them as a type-1 innate lymphoid cells (ilc1). ifn-γ-producing ilc1 cells significantly decreased in 10 patients analyzed 2 weeks after they resumed a wheat-free diet. conclusions these data indicate that  in patients with active ncws  ifn-γ-producing ilc1 cells infiltrate rectal mucosa and support a role for this innate lymphoid cell population in the pathogenesis of ncws.
1917,molecular mechanisms of ribosomal protein gene coregulation.,the 137 ribosomal protein genes (rpgs) of saccharomyces provide a model for gene coregulation. we examined the positional and functional organization of their regulators (rap1 [repressor activator protein 1]  fhl1  ifh1  sfp1  and hmo1)  the transcription machinery (tfiib  tfiid  and rna polymerase ii)  and chromatin at near-base-pair resolution using chip-exo  as rpgs are coordinately reprogrammed. where hmo1 is enriched  fhl1  ifh1  sfp1  and hmo1 cross-linked broadly to promoter dna in an rpg-specific manner and demarcated by general minor groove widening. importantly  hmo1 extended 20-50 base pairs (bp) downstream from fhl1. upon rpg repression  fhl1 remained in place. hmo1 dissociated  which was coupled to an upstream shift of the +1 nucleosome  as reflected by the hmo1 extension and core promoter region. fhl1 and hmo1 may create two regulatable and positionally distinct barriers  against which chromatin remodelers position the +1 nucleosome into either an activating or a repressive state. consistent with in vitro studies  we found that specific tfiid subunits  in addition to cross-linking at the core promoter  made precise cross-links at rap1 sites  which we interpret to reflect native rap1-tfiid interactions. our findings suggest how sequence-specific dna binding regulates nucleosome positioning and transcription complex assembly >300 bp away and how coregulation coevolved with coding sequences.
1919,fluconazole prophylaxis: can we eliminate invasive candida infections in the neonatal icu?,purpose of review owing to the high mortality  risk of neurodevelopmental impairment and end-organ involvement with fungal infections in the neonate  prevention of invasive candida infections in extremely preterm infants should be a priority for each neonatal icu. recent findings even with prompt or empiric treatment  mortality and neurodevelopmental impairment is high (57%) in infants <1000 g. multiple studies have been performed with fluconazole prophylaxis  including a recent multicenter randomized controlled trial. all of the studies have demonstrated efficacy and safety with no increase or emergence of fungal resistance. analysis of these studies demonstrates that fluconazole prophylaxis decreased the incidence of invasive candida infections in high-risk infants <1000 g by 91% (p = 0.0004) and all infants <1500 g by 85% (p < 0.0001). the mortality rate from all causes was 25% lower (p = 0.029). furthermore  studies have demonstrated that all candida-related mortality can be eliminated in an entire neonatal icu by targeting fluconazole prophylaxis in infants <1000 g.   summary targeting fluconazole prophylaxis to infants who are either <1000 g or < or =27 weeks is highly effective  safe and inexpensive  and can eliminate these infections as a cause of neurodevelopmental impairment and mortality.
1921,angiopoietin-2 is increased in sepsis and inversely associated with nitric oxide-dependent microvascular reactivity,introduction angiopoietin-2 (ang-2)  an angiogenic peptide released by endothelial cell weibel-palade bodies (wpbs)  increases endothelial activation and vascular permeability. ang-2 is raised in severe sepsis but the mechanisms underlying this are not known. nitric oxide (no) inhibits wpb exocytosis  and bioavailability of endothelial no is decreased in sepsis. we hypothesized that endothelial no bioavailability would be inversely correlated with ang-2 concentrations in sepsis. methods plasma ang-2  vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) and endothelial-active cytokines were assessed in 83 patients with early sepsis and 41 hospital controls  and related to reactive hyperaemia-peripheral arterial tonometry  rh-pat  a measure of endothelial no bioavailability. results plasma ang-2 was elevated in sepsis (median [interquartile range (iqr)]  ng/ml: severe sepsis 12.4 [8.5-33.4]  sepsis without organ failure 6.1 [5.0-10.4]  controls 2.7 [2.2-3.6]  p < 0.0001). it correlated inversely with rh-pat (r = -0.38  p < 0.0001) and positively with il-6 (r = 0.57  p < 0.0001) and degree of organ failure (sequential organ function assessment score) (r = 0.58  p < 0.0001). the correlation of ang-2 with rh-pat persisted after controlling for sepsis severity. in a longitudinal mixed-effects model  recovery of rh-pat over time was associated with decline in ang-2. conclusions ang-2 is elevated in proportion to sepsis severity  and inversely correlated with no-dependent microvascular reactivity. impaired endothelial no bioavailability may contribute to increased endothelial cell release of ang-2  endothelial activation and capillary leak. agents that increase endothelial no bioavailability or inhibit wpb exocytosis and/or ang-2 activity may have therapeutic potential in sepsis.
1923,left–right asymmetry in the vertebrate embryo: from early information to higher-level integration,although vertebrates seem to be essentially bilaterally symmetrical on the exterior  there are numerous interior left–right asymmetries in the disposition and placement of internal organs. these asymmetries are established during embryogenesis by complex epigenetic and genetic cascades. recent studies in a range of model organisms have made important progress in understanding how this laterality information is generated and conveyed to large regions of the embryo. both commonalities and divergences are emerging in the mechanisms that different vertebrates use in left–right axis specification. recent evidence also provides intriguing links between the establishment of left–right asymmetries and the symmetrical elongation of the anterior–posterior axis.
1925,non-coding rnas: functions and applications in endocrine-related cancer.,a significant fraction of the human genome is transcribed as non-coding rnas (ncrnas). this non-coding transcriptome has challenged the notion of the central dogma and its involvement in transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression is well established. interestingly  several ncrnas are dysregulated in cancer and current non-coding transcriptome research aims to use our increasing knowledge of these ncrnas for the development of cancer biomarkers and anti-cancer drugs. in endocrine-related cancers  for which survival rates can be relatively low  there is a need for such advancements. in this review  we aimed to summarize the roles and clinical implications of recently discovered ncrnas  including long ncrnas  piwi-interacting rnas  trna- and y rna-derived ncrnas  and small nucleolar rnas  in endocrine-related cancers affecting both sexes. we focus on recent studies highlighting discoveries in ncrna biology and expression in cancer  and conclude with a discussion on the challenges and future directions  including clinical application. ncrnas show great promise as diagnostic tools and therapeutic targets  but further work is necessary to realize the potential of these unconventional transcripts.
1927,mhc haplotype matching for unrelated hematopoietic cell transplantation,background  current criteria for the selection of unrelated donors for hematopoietic cell transplantation (hct) include matching for the alleles of each human leukocyte antigen (hla) locus within the major histocompatibility complex (mhc). graft-versus-host disease (gvhd)  however  remains a significant and potentially life-threatening complication even after hla-identical unrelated hct. the mhc harbors more than 400 genes  but the total number of transplantation antigens is unknown. genes that influence transplantation outcome could be identified by using linkage disequilibrium (ld)-mapping approaches  if the extended mhc haplotypes of the unrelated donor and recipient could be defined.
1929,meta-analysis identifies common variants associated with body mass index in east asians,multiple genetic loci associated with obesity or body mass index (bmi) have been identified through genome-wide association studies conducted predominantly in populations of european ancestry. we performed a meta-analysis of associations between bmi and approximately 2.4 million snps in 27 715 east asians  which was followed by in silico and de novo replication studies in 37 691 and 17 642 additional east asians  respectively. we identified ten bmi-associated loci at genome-wide significance (p < 5.0 × 10(-8))  including seven previously identified loci (fto  sec16b  mc4r  gipr-qpctl  adcy3-dnajc27  bdnf and map2k5) and three novel loci in or near the cdkal1  pcsk1 and gp2 genes. three additional loci nearly reached the genome-wide significance threshold  including two previously identified loci in the gnpda2 and tfap2b genes and a newly identified signal near pax6  all of which were associated with bmi with p < 5.0 × 10(-7). findings from this study may shed light on new pathways involved in obesity and demonstrate the value of conducting genetic studies in non-european populations.
1931,mechanosignaling through yap and taz drives fibroblast activation and fibrosis.,pathological fibrosis is driven by a feedback loop in which the fibrotic extracellular matrix is both a cause and consequence of fibroblast activation. however  the molecular mechanisms underlying this process remain poorly understood. here we identify yes-associated protein (yap) (homolog of drosophila yki) and transcriptional coactivator with pdz-binding motif (taz) (also known as wwtr1)  transcriptional effectors of the hippo pathway  as key matrix stiffness-regulated coordinators of fibroblast activation and matrix synthesis. yap and taz are prominently expressed in fibrotic but not healthy lung tissue  with particularly pronounced nuclear expression of taz in spindle-shaped fibroblastic cells. in culture  both yap and taz accumulate in the nuclei of fibroblasts grown on pathologically stiff matrices but not physiologically compliant matrices. knockdown of yap and taz together in vitro attenuates key fibroblast functions  including matrix synthesis  contraction  and proliferation  and does so exclusively on pathologically stiff matrices. profibrotic effects of yap and taz operate  in part  through their transcriptional target plasminogen activator inhibitor-1  which is regulated by matrix stiffness independent of transforming growth factor-β signaling. immortalized fibroblasts conditionally expressing active yap or taz mutant proteins overcome soft matrix limitations on growth and promote fibrosis when adoptively transferred to the murine lung  demonstrating the ability of fibroblast yap/taz activation to drive a profibrotic response in vivo. together  these results identify yap and taz as mechanoactivated coordinators of the matrix-driven feedback loop that amplifies and sustains fibrosis.
1933,circadian regulation of intracellular g-protein signalling mediates intercellular synchrony and rhythmicity in the suprachiasmatic nucleus,synchronous oscillations of thousands of cellular clocks in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (scn)  the circadian centre  are coordinated by precisely timed cell-cell communication  the principle of which is largely unknown. here we show that the amount of rgs16 (regulator of g protein signalling 16)  a protein known to inactivate gαi  increases at a selective circadian time to allow time-dependent activation of intracellular cyclic amp signalling in the scn. gene ablation of rgs16 leads to the loss of circadian production of camp and as a result lengthens circadian period of behavioural rhythm. the temporally precise regulation of the camp signal by clock-controlled rgs16 is needed for the dorsomedial scn to maintain a normal phase-relationship to the ventrolateral scn. thus  rgs16-dependent temporal regulation of intracellular g protein signalling coordinates the intercellular synchrony of scn pacemaker neurons and thereby defines the 24 h rhythm in behaviour.
1935,deregulated dna polymerase β strengthens ionizing radiation-induced nucleotidic and chromosomal instabilities,dna polymerase β (pol β) is an error-prone enzyme which has been found to be overexpressed in several human tumors. by using a couple of recombinant cho cells differing only from the exogenous expression of pol β  we showed here that cells overexpressing pol β are much more sensitive to ir treatments by increasing apoptosis. we also found that the surviving cells displayed an hypermutator phenotype which could be explained by different pathways involving pol β  such as (i) an increased capacity to incorporate into dna the mutagenic dgtp analog  8-oxo-dgtp  one of the most abundant purine-derived nucleotides exposed to γ-irradiation  (ii) the induction of ir-induced dna breaks and (iii) accumulation of chromosome aberrations induced by radiation. alteration of pol β expression in irradiated cells thus appears to strengthen both cell death and genetic changes associated with a malignant phenotype. these data provide new insights into the cellular response to radiations and the associated carcinogenic consequences.
1937,probing the phenomenon of trained immunity in invertebrates during a transgenerational study  using brine shrimp artemia as a model system,the invertebrate's innate immune system was reported to show some form of adaptive features  termed trained immunity. however  the memory characteristics of innate immune system and the mechanisms behind such phenomena remain unclear. using the invertebrate model artemia  we verified the possibility or impossibility of trained immunity  examining the presence or absence of enduring memory against homologous and heterologous antigens (vibrio spp.) during a transgenerational study. we also determined the mechanisms behind such phenomenon. our results showed the occurrence of memory and partial discrimination in artemia's immune system  as manifested by increased resistance  for three successive generations  of the progenies of vibrio-exposed ancestors towards a homologous bacterial strain  rather than to a heterologous strain. this increased resistance phenotype was associated with elevated levels of hsp70 and hmgb1 signaling molecules and alteration in the expression of key innate immunity-related genes. our results also showed stochastic pattern in the acetylation and methylation levels of h4 and h3k4me3 histones  respectively  in the progenies whose ancestors were challenged. overall results suggest that innate immune responses in invertebrates have the capacity to be trained  and epigenetic reprogramming of (selected) innate immune effectors is likely to have central place in the mechanisms leading to trained immunity.
1939,combination varenicline and bupropion sr for tobacco-dependence treatment in cigarette smokers: a randomized trial.,importance combining pharmacotherapies for tobacco-dependence treatment may increase smoking abstinence. objective to determine efficacy and safety of varenicline and bupropion sustained-release (sr; combination therapy) compared with varenicline (monotherapy) in cigarette smokers. design  setting  and participants randomized  blinded  placebo-controlled multicenter clinical trial with a 12-week treatment period and follow-up through week 52 conducted between october 2009 and april 2013 at 3 midwestern clinical research sites. five hundred six adult (≥18 years) cigarette smokers were randomly assigned and 315 (62%) completed the study. interventions twelve weeks of varenicline and bupropion sr or varenicline and placebo. main outcomes and measures primary outcome was abstinence rates at week 12  defined as prolonged (no smoking from 2 weeks after the target quit date) abstinence and 7-day point-prevalence (no smoking past 7 days) abstinence. secondary outcomes were prolonged and point-prevalence smoking abstinence rates at weeks 26 and 52. outcomes were biochemically confirmed. results at 12 weeks  53.0% of the combination therapy group achieved prolonged smoking abstinence and 56.2% achieved 7-day point-prevalence smoking abstinence compared with 43.2% and 48.6% in varenicline monotherapy (odds ratio [or]  1.49; 95% ci  1.05-2.12; p = .03 and or  1.36; 95% ci  0.95-1.93; p = .09  respectively). at 26 weeks  36.6% of the combination therapy group achieved prolonged and 38.2% achieved 7-day point-prevalence smoking abstinence compared with 27.6% and 31.9% in varenicline monotherapy (or  1.52; 95% ci  1.04-2.22; p = .03 and or  1.32; 95% ci  0.91-1.91; p = .14  respectively). at 52 weeks  30.9% of the combination therapy group achieved prolonged and 36.6% achieved 7-day point-prevalence smoking abstinence compared with 24.5% and 29.2% in varenicline monotherapy (or  1.39; 95% ci  0.93-2.07; p = .11 and or  1.40; 95% ci  0.96-2.05; p = .08  respectively). participants receiving combination therapy reported more anxiety (7.2% vs 3.1%; p = .04) and depressive symptoms (3.6% vs 0.8%; p = .03). conclusions and relevance among cigarette smokers  combined use of varenicline and bupropion  compared with varenicline alone  increased prolonged abstinence but not 7-day point prevalence at 12 and 26 weeks. neither outcome was significantly different at 52 weeks. further research is required to determine the role of combination therapy in smoking cessation. trial registration clinicaltrials.gov identifier: http://clinicaltrials.gov/show/nct00935818.
1941,variable breakpoints target pax5 in patients with dicentric chromosomes: a model for the basis of unbalanced translocations in cancer.,the search for target genes involved in unbalanced acquired chromosomal abnormalities has been largely unsuccessful  because the breakpoints of these rearrangements are too variable. here  we use the example of dicentric chromosomes in b cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia to show that  despite this heterogeneity  single genes are targeted through a variety of mechanisms. fish showed that  although they were heterogeneous  breakpoints on 9p resulted in the partial or complete deletion of pax5. molecular copy number counting further delineated the breakpoints and facilitated cloning with long-distance inverse pcr. this approach identified 5 fusion gene partners with pax5: loc392027 (7p12.1)  slco1b3 (12p12)  asxl1 (20q11.1)  kif3b (20q11.21)  and c20orf112 (20q11.1). in each predicted fusion protein  the dna-binding paired domain of pax5 was present. using quantitative pcr  we demonstrated that both the deletion and gene fusion events resulted in the same underexpression of pax5  which extended to the differential expression of the pax5 target genes  ebf1  aldh1a1  atp9a  and flt3. further molecular analysis showed deletion and mutation of the homologous pax5 allele  providing further support for the key role of pax5. here  we show that specific gene loci may be the target of heterogeneous translocation breakpoints in human cancer  acting through a variety of mechanisms. this approach indicates an application for the identification of cancer genes in solid tumours  where unbalanced chromosomal rearrangements are particularly prevalent and few genes have been identified. it can be extrapolated that this strategy will reveal that the same mechanisms operate in cancer pathogenesis in general.
1943,factors associated with american board of medical specialties member board certification among us medical school graduates.,context certification by an american board of medical specialties (abms) member board is emerging as a measure of physician quality. objective to identify demographic and educational factors associated with abms member board certification of us medical school graduates. design  setting  and participants retrospective study of a national cohort of 1997-2000 us medical school graduates  grouped by specialty choice at graduation and followed up through march 2  2009. in separate multivariable logistic regression models for each specialty category  factors associated with abms member board certification were identified. main outcome measure abms member board certification. results of 42 440 graduates in the study sample  37 054 (87.3%) were board certified. graduates in all specialty categories with first-attempt passing scores in the highest tertile (vs first-attempt failing scores) on us medical licensing examination step 2 clinical knowledge were more likely to be board certified; adjusted odds ratios (aors) varied by specialty category  with the lowest odds for emergency medicine (87.4% vs 73.6%; aor  1.82; 95% ci  1.03-3.20) and highest odds for radiology (98.1% vs 74.9%; aor  13.19; 95% ci  5.55-31.32). in each specialty category except family medicine  graduates self-identified as underrepresented racial/ethnic minorities (vs white) were less likely to be board certified  ranging from 83.5% vs 95.6% in the pediatrics category (aor  0.44; 95% ci  0.33-0.58) to 71.5% vs 83.7% in the other nongeneralist specialties category (aor  0.79; 95% ci  0.64-0.96). with each $50 000 unit increase in debt (vs no debt)  graduates choosing obstetrics/gynecology were less likely to be board certified (aor  0.89; 95% ci  0.83-0.96)  and graduates choosing family medicine were more likely to be board certified (aor  1.13; 95% ci  1.01-1.26). conclusion demographic and educational factors were associated with board certification among us medical school graduates in every specialty category examined; findings varied among specialty categories.
1945,human ipsc-based modeling of late-onset disease via progerin-induced aging.,reprogramming somatic cells to induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs) resets their identity back to an embryonic age and  thus  presents a significant hurdle for modeling late-onset disorders. in this study  we describe a strategy for inducing aging-related features in human ipsc-derived lineages and apply it to the modeling of parkinson's disease (pd). our approach involves expression of progerin  a truncated form of lamin a associated with premature aging. we found that expression of progerin in ipsc-derived fibroblasts and neurons induces multiple aging-related markers and characteristics  including dopamine-specific phenotypes such as neuromelanin accumulation. induced aging in pd ipsc-derived dopamine neurons revealed disease phenotypes that require both aging and genetic susceptibility  such as pronounced dendrite degeneration  progressive loss of tyrosine hydroxylase (th) expression  and enlarged mitochondria or lewy-body-precursor inclusions. thus  our study suggests that progerin-induced aging can be used to reveal late-onset age-related disease features in hipsc-based disease models.
1947,maintaining the norm: t-cell homeostasis,the persistence of naive and memory t cells has long been of interest to immunologists  but the factors that influence the survival and homeostasis of these subsets have remained obscure. in recent years  it has become evident that the homeostasis of both naive and memory t-cell pools is highly dynamic and tightly regulated by internal stimuli  including cytokines and self-peptide–mhc ligands for the t-cell receptor. these homeostatic mechanisms might have a vital influence on the capacity of the t-cell pool to respond to both foreign and self-antigens.
1949,spatiotemporal control of mitosis by the conserved spindle matrix protein megator,a putative spindle matrix has been hypothesized to mediate chromosome motion  but its existence and functionality remain controversial. in this report  we show that megator (mtor)  the drosophila melanogaster counterpart of the human nuclear pore complex protein translocated promoter region (tpr)  and the spindle assembly checkpoint (sac) protein mad2 form a conserved complex that localizes to a nuclear derived spindle matrix in living cells. fluorescence recovery after photobleaching experiments supports that mtor is retained around spindle microtubules  where it shows distinct dynamic properties. mtor/tpr promotes the recruitment of mad2 and mps1 but not mad1 to unattached kinetochores (kts)  mediating normal mitotic duration and sac response. at anaphase  mtor plays a role in spindle elongation  thereby affecting normal chromosome movement. we propose that mtor/tpr functions as a spatial regulator of the sac  which ensures the efficient recruitment of mad2 to unattached kts at the onset of mitosis and proper spindle maturation  whereas enrichment of mad2 in a spindle matrix helps confine the action of a diffusible "wait anaphase" signal to the vicinity of the spindle.
1951,adherens junctions in drosophila retinal morphogenesis.,adherens junctions and their core molecular components  classic cadherins  make major contributions to animal morphogenesis. although the significance of cadherins in development is generally accepted  the mechanisms regulating adherens junction function during morphogenesis remain a subject of intense research. adherens junctions are involved in the organization of simple cellular patterns  and more complex cell shape changes and cell movements that depend on the dynamic modulation of adherens junctions.
1953,effectiveness of thigh-length graduated compression stockings to reduce the risk of deep vein thrombosis after stroke (clots trial 1): a multicentre  randomised controlled trial,background deep vein thrombosis (dvt) and pulmonary embolism are common after stroke. in small trials of patients undergoing surgery  graduated compression stockings (gcs) reduce the risk of dvt. national stroke guidelines extrapolating from these trials recommend their use in patients with stroke despite insufficient evidence. we assessed the effectiveness of thigh-length gcs to reduce dvt after stroke. methods in this outcome-blinded  randomised controlled trial  2518 patients who were admitted to hospital within 1 week of an acute stroke and who were immobile were enrolled from 64 centres in the uk  italy  and australia. patients were allocated via a central randomisation system to routine care plus thigh-length gcs (n=1256) or to routine care plus avoidance of gcs (n=1262). a technician who was blinded to treatment allocation undertook compression doppler ultrasound of both legs at about 7-10 days and  when practical  again at 25-30 days after enrolment. the primary outcome was the occurrence of symptomatic or asymptomatic dvt in the popliteal or femoral veins. analyses were by intention to treat. this study is registered  number isrctn28163533. findings all patients were included in the analyses. the primary outcome occurred in 126 (10.0%) patients allocated to thigh-length gcs and in 133 (10.5%) allocated to avoid gcs  resulting in a non-significant absolute reduction in risk of 0.5% (95% ci -1.9% to 2.9%). skin breaks  ulcers  blisters  and skin necrosis were significantly more common in patients allocated to gcs than in those allocated to avoid their use (64 [5%] vs 16 [1%]; odds ratio 4.18  95% ci 2.40-7.27). interpretation these data do not lend support to the use of thigh-length gcs in patients admitted to hospital with acute stroke. national guidelines for stroke might need to be revised on the basis of these results. funding medical research council (uk)  chief scientist office of scottish government  chest heart and stroke scotland  tyco healthcare (covidien) usa  and uk stroke research network.
1955,proteomic identification of a novel isoform of collapsin response mediator protein-2 in spinal nerves peripheral to dorsal root ganglia.,primary afferent fibers are originated from pseudounipolar sensory cells in dorsal root ganglia (drg) and transmit external stimuli received in the skin to the spinal cord. here we undertook a proteomic approach to uncover the polarity of primary afferent fibers. lumbar spinal nerve segments  peripheral and central to drg  were dissected from 5-wk-old wistar rats and the lysates were subjected to large-sized 2-de at ph 5-6. among approximately 800 protein spots detected in the central and peripheral fractions  one of the unique spots in the peripheral fraction with mw of 60 kda and pi of 5.6 was identified as an isoform of collapsin response mediator protein-2 (crmp-2) by maldi-tof ms and western blots with anti-crmp-2 antibodies that recognize 1-17 and 486-528 residues. since this novel spot was detected only in the peripheral fraction  but not in the central fraction  drg  and other regions of the brain  it was named pericrmp-2. the c-terminal fragment of crmp-2 was not detected in pericrmp-2 by ms analyses. expression of pericrmp-2 decreased following sciatic nerve injury. these results suggest that pericrmp-2 is a c-terminal truncated isoform polarized in the peripheral side of spinal nerves and may be involved in nerve degeneration and regeneration.
1957,steroid hormone signalling links reproduction to lifespan in dietary-restricted caenorhabditis elegans.,dietary restriction (dr) increases healthspan and longevity in many species  including primates  but it is often accompanied by impaired reproductive function. whether signals associated with the reproductive system contribute to or are required for dr effects on lifespan has not been established. here we show that expression of the cytochrome p450 daf-9/cyp450 and production of the steroid hormone δ(7)-dafachronic acid (da) are increased in c. elegans subjected to dr. da signalling through the non-canonical nuclear hormone receptor nhr-8/nhr and the nutrient-responsive kinase let-363/mtor is essential for dr-mediated longevity. steroid signalling also affects germline plasticity in response to nutrient deprivation and this is required to achieve lifespan extension. these data demonstrate that steroid signalling links germline physiology to lifespan when nutrients are limited  and establish a central role for let-363/mtor in integrating signals derived from nutrients and steroid hormones.
1959,evidence-based interventions for improvement of maternal and child nutrition: what can be done and at what cost?,maternal undernutrition contributes to 800 000 neonatal deaths annually through small for gestational age births; stunting  wasting  and micronutrient deficiencies are estimated to underlie nearly 3·1 million child deaths annually. progress has been made with many interventions implemented at scale and the evidence for effectiveness of nutrition interventions and delivery strategies has grown since the lancet series on maternal and child undernutrition in 2008. we did a comprehensive update of interventions to address undernutrition and micronutrient deficiencies in women and children and used standard methods to assess emerging new evidence for delivery platforms. we modelled the effect on lives saved and cost of these interventions in the 34 countries that have 90% of the world's children with stunted growth. we also examined the effect of various delivery platforms and delivery options using community health workers to engage poor populations and promote behaviour change  access and uptake of interventions. our analysis suggests the current total of deaths in children younger than 5 years can be reduced by 15% if populations can access ten evidence-based nutrition interventions at 90% coverage. additionally  access to and uptake of iodised salt can alleviate iodine deficiency and improve health outcomes. accelerated gains are possible and about a fifth of the existing burden of stunting can be averted using these approaches  if access is improved in this way. the estimated total additional annual cost involved for scaling up access to these ten direct nutrition interventions in the 34 focus countries is int$9·6 billion per year. continued investments in nutrition-specific interventions to avert maternal and child undernutrition and micronutrient deficiencies through community engagement and delivery strategies that can reach poor segments of the population at greatest risk can make a great difference. if this improved access is linked to nutrition-sensitive approaches--ie  women's empowerment  agriculture  food systems  education  employment  social protection  and safety nets--they can greatly accelerate progress in countries with the highest burden of maternal and child undernutrition and mortality.
1961,nuclear receptors  rxr  and the big bang,isolation of genes encoding the receptors for steroids  retinoids  vitamin d  and thyroid hormone and their structural and functional analysis revealed an evolutionarily conserved template for nuclear hormone receptors. this discovery sparked identification of numerous genes encoding related proteins  termed orphan receptors. characterization of these orphan receptors and  in particular  of the retinoid x receptor (rxr) positioned nuclear receptors at the epicenter of the "big bang" of molecular endocrinology. this review provides a personal perspective on nuclear receptors and explores their integrated and coordinated signaling networks that are essential for multicellular life  highlighting the rxr heterodimer and its associated ligands and transcriptional mechanism.
1963,unr facilitates the interaction of mle with the lncrna rox2 during drosophila dosage compensation.,dosage compensation is a regulatory process that balances the expression of x-chromosomal genes between males (xy) and females (xx). in drosophila  this requires non-coding rnas and rna-binding proteins (rbps) whose specific functions remain elusive. here we show that the drosophila rbp unr promotes the targeting of the activating male-specific-lethal complex to the x-chromosome by facilitating the interaction of two crucial subunits: the rna helicase mle and the long non-coding rna rox2.
1965,human macrophages infected with a high burden of esat-6-expressing m. tuberculosis undergo caspase-1- and cathepsin b-independent necrosis,mycobacterium tuberculosis (mtb) infects lung macrophages  which instead of killing the pathogen can be manipulated by the bacilli  creating an environment suitable for intracellular replication and spread to adjacent cells. the role of host cell death during mtb infection is debated because the bacilli have been shown to be both anti-apoptotic  keeping the host cell alive to avoid the antimicrobial effects of apoptosis  and pro-necrotic  killing the host macrophage to allow infection of neighboring cells. since mycobacteria activate the nlrp3 inflammasome in macrophages  we investigated whether mtb could induce one of the recently described inflammasome-linked cell death modes pyroptosis and pyronecrosis. these are mediated through caspase-1 and cathepsin-b  respectively. human monocyte-derived macrophages were infected with virulent (h37rv) mtb at a multiplicity of infection (moi) of 1 or 10. the higher moi resulted in strongly enhanced release of il-1β  while a low moi gave no il-1β response. the infected macrophages were collected and cell viability in terms of the integrity of dna  mitochondria and the plasma membrane was determined. we found that infection with h37rv at moi 10  but not moi 1  over two days led to extensive dna fragmentation  loss of mitochondrial membrane potential  loss of plasma membrane integrity  and hmgb1 release. although we observed plasma membrane permeabilization and il-1β release from infected cells  the cell death induced by mtb was not dependent on caspase-1 or cathepsin b. it was  however  dependent on mycobacterial expression of esat-6. we conclude that as virulent mtb reaches a threshold number of bacilli inside the human macrophage  esat-6-dependent necrosis occurs  activating caspase-1 in the process.
1967,conserved histone variant h2a.z protects euchromatin from the ectopic spread of silent heterochromatin,boundary elements hinder the spread of heterochromatin  yet these sites do not fully account for the preservation of adjacent euchromatin. histone variant h2a.z (htz1 in yeast) replaces conventional h2a in many nucleosomes. microarray analysis revealed that htz1-activated genes cluster near telomeres. the reduced expression of most of these genes in htz1delta cells was reversed by the deletion of sir2 (sir2delta) suggesting that h2a.z antagonizes telomeric silencing. other htz1-activated genes flank the silent hmr mating-type locus. their requirement for htz1 can be bypassed by sir2delta or by a deletion encompassing the silencing nucleation sites in hmr. in htz1delta cells  sir2 and sir3 spread into flanking euchromatic regions  producing changes in histone h4 acetylation and h3 4-methylation indicative of ectopic heterochromatin formation. htz1 is enriched in these euchromatic regions and acts synergistically with a boundary element to prevent the spread of heterochromatin. thus  euchromatin and heterochromatin each contains components that antagonize switching to the opposite chromatin state.
1969,occurrence of chromosome 9 and p53 alterations in multifocal dysplasia and carcinoma in situ of human urinary bladder,to define the genetic changes of flat urothelial lesions  carcinoma in situ (cis) and moderate dysplasias (dii) were investigated for alterations in the two chromosomal regions most frequently involved in bladder cancer. overall  33 cis and 16 dii from 21 patients were used to microdissect urothelium. dual color fluorescence in situ hybridization (fish) using gene locus probes of 9q22 (facc)  9p21 (cdk)  17p13 (p53)  and related centromeric probes was applied on interphase nuclei. in parallel  preamplified dna of these samples was used for loss of heterozygosity (loh) analyses with eight microsatellite markers on chromosomes 9p  9q and 17p  and for sequencing of exons 5-9 of p53. data indicated nearly identical deletion frequencies for chromosomes 9 and 17 for cis (chromosome 9  86%; p53  84%). dii showed a lower deletion rate in comparison with cis (chromosome 9  75%; p53  53%). a very high correlation between the results of fish and loh analyses was found. p53 mutations were detected in 12 of 15 patients (cis  72%; dii  67%). in three of 16 patients with multifocal tumors  oligoclonal lesions were identified by loh analyses  a finding further supported by sequencing of p53  by which two different p53 deletions were detected in two cases. in conclusion  data from microdissected flat urothelial lesions indicate that chromosome 9 deletions cannot be regarded as indicators of papillary growth  because they are found frequently in both types of flat lesions of the urothelium: those associated with papillary tumors and those that are not. the similar distribution and lower amount of genetic changes in dii render dii a possible precursor lesion of cis.
1971,translocated lps might cause endotoxin tolerance in circulating monocytes of cystic fibrosis patients,cystic fibrosis (cf) is an inherited pleiotropic disease that results from abnormalities in the gene codes of a chloride channel. the lungs of cf patients are chronically infected by several pathogens but bacteraemia have rarely been reported in this pathology. besides that  circulating monocytes in cf patients exhibit a patent endotoxin tolerance (et) state since they show a significant reduction of the inflammatory response to bacterial stimulus. despite a previous description of this phenomenon  the direct cause of et in cf patients remains unknown. in this study we have researched the possible role of microbial/endotoxin translocation from a localized infection to the bloodstream as a potential cause of et induction in cf patients. plasma analysis of fourteen cf patients revealed high levels of lps compared to healthy volunteers and patients who suffer from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. experiments in vitro showed that endotoxin concentrations found in plasma of cf patients were enough to induce an et phenotype in monocytes from healthy controls. in agreement with clinical data  we failed to detect bacterial dna in cf plasma. our results suggest that soluble endotoxin present in bloodstream of cf patients causes endotoxin tolerance in their circulating monocytes.
1973,concordance  disease progression  and heritability of coeliac disease in italian twins.,background and aims we adopted the twin method to disentangle the genetic and environmental components of susceptibility to coeliac disease (cd). we estimated disease concordance rate by zygosity and hla genotypes  discordance times  progression rates to disease  and heritability. methods we crosslinked the italian twin registry with the membership lists of the italian coeliac disease association and recruited 23 monozygotic (mz) and 50 dizygotic (dz) twin pairs with at least one affected member. zygosity was assigned by dna fingerprinting  and hla-dq and dr alleles were genotyped. disease status was ascertained by antiendomysial  anti-human tissue transglutaminase antibodies  and bowel biopsy. results concordance was significantly higher in mz (83.3% probandwise  71.4% pairwise) than in dz (16.7% probandwise  9.1% pairwise) pairs. concordance was not affected by sex or hla genotype of the co-twin and being mz was significantly associated with the occurrence of cd (cox adjusted hazard ratio 14.3 (95% confidence interval 4.0-50.3)). in 90% of concordant pairs the discordance time was <or=2 years. mz and dz co-twins had 70% and 9% cumulative probability of having symptomatic or silent forms of cd  respectively  within five years. under ace (additive genetic  common  and unshared environmental factors) models  with cd population prevalences of 1/91 and 1/1000  heritability estimates were 87% and 57%  respectively. conclusion mz pairs have a high probability of being concordant  regardless of sex or hla genotype. most of the affected co-twins receive a diagnosis within two years. a remarkable proportion of phenotypic variance is due to genetic factors.
1975,synaptic glutamate release by ventromedial hypothalamic neurons is part of the neurocircuitry that prevents hypoglycemia.,the importance of neuropeptides in the hypothalamus has been experimentally established. due to difficulties in assessing function in vivo  the roles of the fast-acting neurotransmitters glutamate and gaba are largely unknown. synaptic vesicular transporters (vgluts for glutamate and vgat for gaba) are required for vesicular uptake and  consequently  synaptic release of neurotransmitters. ventromedial hypothalamic (vmh) neurons are predominantly glutamatergic and express vglut2. to evaluate the role of glutamate release from vmh neurons  we generated mice lacking vglut2 selectively in sf1 neurons (a major subset of vmh neurons). these mice have hypoglycemia during fasting secondary to impaired fasting-induced increases in the glucose-raising pancreatic hormone glucagon and impaired induction in liver of mrnas encoding pgc-1alpha and the gluconeogenic enzymes pepck and g6pase. similarly  these mice have defective counterregulatory responses to insulin-induced hypoglycemia and 2-deoxyglucose (an antimetabolite). thus  glutamate release from vmh neurons is an important component of the neurocircuitry that functions to prevent hypoglycemia.
1977,type 1 diabetes-associated il2ra variation lowers il-2 signaling and contributes to diminished cd4+cd25+ regulatory t cell function.,numerous reports have demonstrated that cd4(+)cd25(+) regulatory t cells (tregs) from individuals with a range of human autoimmune diseases  including type 1 diabetes  are deficient in their ability to control autologous proinflammatory responses when compared with nondiseased  control individuals. treg dysfunction could be a primary  causal event or may result from perturbations in the immune system during disease development. polymorphisms in genes associated with treg function  such as il2ra  confer a higher risk of autoimmune disease. although this suggests a primary role for defective tregs in autoimmunity  a link between il2ra gene polymorphisms and treg function has not been examined. we addressed this by examining the impact of an il2ra haplotype associated with type 1 diabetes on treg fitness and suppressive function. studies were conducted using healthy human subjects to avoid any confounding effects of disease. we demonstrated that the presence of an autoimmune disease-associated il2ra haplotype correlates with diminished il-2 responsiveness in ag-experienced cd4(+) t cells  as measured by phosphorylation of stat5a  and is associated with lower levels of foxp3 expression by tregs and a reduction in their ability to suppress proliferation of autologous effector t cells. these data offer a rationale that contributes to the molecular and cellular mechanisms through which polymorphisms in the il-2ra gene affect immune regulation  and consequently upon susceptibility to autoimmune and inflammatory diseases.
1979,direct sensing of systemic and nutritional signals by hematopoietic progenitors in drosophila,the drosophila lymph gland is a haematopoietic organ in which progenitor cells  which are most akin to the common myeloid progenitor in mammals  proliferate and differentiate into three types of mature cell--plasmatocytes  crystal cells and lamellocytes--the functions of which are reminiscent of mammalian myeloid cells. during the first and early second instars of larval development  the lymph gland contains only progenitors  whereas in the third instar  a medial region of the primary lobe of the lymph gland called the medullary zone contains these progenitors  and maturing blood cells are found juxtaposed in a peripheral region designated the cortical zone. a third group of cells referred to as the posterior signalling centre functions as a haematopoietic niche. similarly to mammalian myeloid cells  drosophila blood cells respond to multiple stresses including hypoxia  infection and oxidative stress. however  how systemic signals are sensed by myeloid progenitors to regulate cell-fate determination has not been well described. here  we show that the haematopoietic progenitors of drosophila are direct targets of systemic (insulin) and nutritional (essential amino acid) signals  and that these systemic signals maintain the progenitors by promoting wingless (wnt in mammals) signalling. we expect that this study will promote investigation of such possible direct signal sensing mechanisms by mammalian myeloid progenitors.
1981,the neurobiology of sleep: genetics  cellular physiology and subcortical networks,to appreciate the neural underpinnings of sleep  it is important to view this universal mammalian behaviour at multiple levels of its biological organization. molecularly  the circadian rhythm of sleep involves interlocking positive- and negative-feedback mechanisms of circadian genes and their protein products in cells of the suprachiasmatic nucleus that are entrained to ambient conditions by light. circadian information is integrated with information on homeostatic sleep need in nuclei of the anterior hypothalamus. these nuclei interact with arousal systems in the posterior hypothalamus  basal forebrain and brainstem to control sleep onset. during sleep  an ultradian oscillator in the mesopontine junction controls the regular alternation of rapid eye movement (rem) and non-rem sleep. sleep cycles are accompanied by neuromodulatory influences on forebrain structures that influence behaviour  consciousness and cognition.
1983,epithelium-intrinsic naip/nlrc4 inflammasome drives infected enterocyte expulsion to restrict salmonella replication in the intestinal mucosa.,the gut mucosal epithelium separates the host from the microbiota  but enteropathogens such as salmonella typhimurium (s.tm) can invade and breach this barrier. defenses against such acute insults remain incompletely understood. using a murine model of salmonella enterocolitis  we analyzed mechanisms limiting pathogen loads in the epithelium during early infection. although the epithelium-invading s.tm replicate initially  this intraepithelial replicative niche is restricted by expulsion of infected enterocytes into the lumen. this mechanism is compromised if inflammasome components (naip1-6  nlrc4  caspase-1/-11) are deleted  or ablated specifically in the epithelium  resulting in ∼100-fold higher intraepithelial loads and accelerated lymph node colonization. interestingly  the cytokines downstream of inflammasome activation  interleukin (il)-1α/β and il-18  appear dispensable for epithelial restriction of early infection. these data establish the role of an epithelium-intrinsic inflammasome  which drives expulsion of infected cells to restrict the pathogen's intraepithelial proliferation. this may represent a general defense mechanism against mucosal infections.
1985,does an arthroscopic suture bridge technique maintain repair integrity?: a serial evaluation by ultrasonography.,unlabelled biomechanical studies suggest a suture bridge technique enhances rotator cuff tendon footprint contact area  holding strength  and mean contact pressure. based on these studies  we asked whether (1) the suture bridge technique would provide a high rate of cuff integrity after surgery  (2) the status of the repaired cuff would change with time  (3) preoperative factors could predict postoperative cuff integrity  and (4) patients with retears had less favorable pain  functional scores  range of motion (rom)  and muscle strength compared with those with intact repairs. we prospectively followed 78 patients with arthroscopic repairs in whom we used the suture bridge technique. the integrity of the rotator cuff repair was determined using ultrasonographic evaluation at 4.5 and 12 months after surgery. ultrasonography revealed intact cuffs in 91% at 4.5 months postoperatively  all of which were maintained at the 12-month followup. failure rates were 17.6% (three of 17) for massive tears  11.1% (two of 18) for large tears  6.3% (two of 32) for medium tears  and no failures for small tears. preoperative fatty degeneration of the supraspinatus muscle was a strong predictor of cuff integrity. we found no correlation between the integrity and clinical outcomes except for a temporary decrease of abduction strength at 6 months. arthroscopic repair using suture bridge technique can achieve a low retear rate in shoulders treated for rotator cuff tears  but the occurrence of retear did not influence the outcome. level of evidence level iv  therapeutic study. see guidelines for authors for a complete description of levels of evidence.
1987,environmental and economic costs of soil erosion and conservation benefits.,soil erosion is a major environmental threat to the sustainability and productive capacity of agriculture. during the last 40 years  nearly one-third of the world's arable land has been lost by erosion and continues to be lost at a rate of more than 10 million hectares per year. with the addition of a quarter of a million people each day  the world population's food demand is increasing at a time when per capita food productivity is beginning to decline.
1989,baby hands that move to the rhythm of language: hearing babies acquiring sign languages babble silently on the hands,the "ba  ba  ba" sound universal to babies' babbling around 7 months captures scientific attention because it provides insights into the mechanisms underlying language acquisition and vestiges of its evolutionary origins. yet the prevailing mystery is what is the biological basis of babbling  with one hypothesis being that it is a non-linguistic motoric activity driven largely by the baby's emerging control over the mouth and jaw  and another being that it is a linguistic activity reflecting the babies' early sensitivity to specific phonetic-syllabic patterns. two groups of hearing babies were studied over time (ages 6  10  and 12 months)  equal in all developmental respects except for the modality of language input (mouth versus hand): three hearing babies acquiring spoken language (group 1: "speech-exposed") and a rare group of three hearing babies acquiring sign language only  not speech (group 2: "sign-exposed"). despite this latter group's exposure to sign  the motoric hypothesis would predict similar hand activity to that seen in speech-exposed hearing babies because language acquisition in sign-exposed babies does not involve the mouth. using innovative quantitative optotrak 3-d motion-tracking technology  applied here for the first time to study infant language acquisition  we obtained physical measurements similar to a speech spectrogram  but for the hands. here we discovered that the specific rhythmic frequencies of the hands of the sign-exposed hearing babies differed depending on whether they were producing linguistic activity  which they produced at a low frequency of approximately 1 hz  versus non-linguistic activity  which they produced at a higher frequency of approximately 2.5 hz - the identical class of hand activity that the speech-exposed hearing babies produced nearly exclusively. surprisingly  without benefit of the mouth  hearing sign-exposed babies alone babbled systematically on their hands. we conclude that babbling is fundamentally a linguistic activity and explain why the differentiation between linguistic and non-linguistic hand activity in a single manual modality (one distinct from the human mouth) could only have resulted if all babies are born with a sensitivity to specific rhythmic patterns at the heart of human language and the capacity to use them.
1991,impaired awareness of hypoglycemia in a population-based sample of children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes,objective to determine the prevalence and clinical associations of impaired awareness of hypoglycemia in a population-based sample of children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes. research design and methods a validated questionnaire was administered to 656 patients with type 1 diabetes over a 6-month period to determine hypoglycemia awareness status. case ascertainment was 79% of the clinic population. the rate of severe hypoglycemia was determined by data collected prospectively in the preceding year. results impaired awareness of hypoglycemia was present in 29% of patients. patients with impaired awareness of hypoglycemia had an earlier onset of diabetes (p < 0.001)  were younger (p < 0.001)  and had lower mean levels of a1c since diabetes onset (p = 0.006) and at their last visit (p = 0.001). the overall rate of severe hypoglycemia was 24.5 episodes per 100 patient-years in the preceding year. the severe hypoglycemia rate was higher in those with impaired awareness of hypoglycemia (37.1 vs. 19.3 episodes per 100 patient-years  p < 0.001). among patients aged <6 years (n = 46)  59% of care providers reported impaired awareness of hypoglycemia  and the rate of severe hypoglycemia was significantly higher in those reporting impaired awareness (33.3 vs. 52 episodes per 100 patient-years  p = 0.02). more patients with recurrent hypoglycemia reported impaired awareness of hypoglycemia (47 vs. 28%  p = 0.03). conclusions a significant proportion of children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes have impaired awareness of hypoglycemia. screening for impaired awareness is an important component of routine diabetes care and can identify patients at increased risk of a severe hypoglycemic event.
1993,distinct functions of nucleotide-binding/hydrolysis sites in the four aaa modules of cytoplasmic dynein.,cytoplasmic dynein is a microtubule-based motor protein that is responsible for most intracellular retrograde transports along microtubule filaments. the motor domain of dynein contains six tandemly linked aaa (atpases associated with diverse cellular activities) modules  with the first four containing predicted nucleotide-binding/hydrolysis sites (p1-p4). to dissect the functions of these multiple nucleotide-binding/hydrolysis sites  we expressed and purified dictyostelium dynein motor domains in which mutations were introduced to block nucleotide binding at each of the four aaa modules  and then examined their detailed biochemical properties. the p1 mutant was trapped in a strong-binding state even in the presence of atp and lost its motile activity. the p3 mutant also showed a high affinity for microtubules in the presence of atp and lost most of the microtubule-activated atpase activity  but retained microtubule sliding activity  although the sliding velocity of the mutant was more than 20-fold slower than that of the wild type. in contrast  mutation in the p2 or p4 site did not affect the apparent binding affinity of the mutant for microtubules in the presence of atp  but reduced atpase and microtubule sliding activities. these results indicate that atp binding and its hydrolysis only at the p1 site are essential for the motor activities of cytoplasmic dynein  and suggest that the other nucleotide-binding/hydrolysis sites regulate the motor activities. among them  nucleotide binding at the p3 site is not essential but is critical for microtubule-activated atpase and motile activities of cytoplasmic dynein.
1995,vitamins e and c in the prevention of prostate and total cancer in men: the physicians' health study ii randomized controlled trial.,context many individuals take vitamins in the hopes of preventing chronic diseases such as cancer  and vitamins e and c are among the most common individual supplements. a large-scale randomized trial suggested that vitamin e may reduce risk of prostate cancer; however  few trials have been powered to address this relationship. no previous trial in men at usual risk has examined vitamin c alone in the prevention of cancer. objective to evaluate whether long-term vitamin e or c supplementation decreases risk of prostate and total cancer events among men. design  setting  and participants the physicians' health study ii is a randomized  double-blind  placebo-controlled factorial trial of vitamins e and c that began in 1997 and continued until its scheduled completion on august 31  2007. a total of 14 641 male physicians in the united states initially aged 50 years or older  including 1307 men with a history of prior cancer at randomization  were enrolled. intervention individual supplements of 400 iu of vitamin e every other day and 500 mg of vitamin c daily. main outcome measures prostate and total cancer. results during a mean follow-up of 8.0 years  there were 1008 confirmed incident cases of prostate cancer and 1943 total cancers. compared with placebo  vitamin e had no effect on the incidence of prostate cancer (active and placebo vitamin e groups  9.1 and 9.5 events per 1000 person-years; hazard ratio [hr]  0.97; 95% confidence interval [ci]  0.85-1.09; p = .58) or total cancer (active and placebo vitamin e groups  17.8 and 17.3 cases per 1000 person-years; hr  1.04; 95% ci  0.95-1.13; p = .41). there was also no significant effect of vitamin c on total cancer (active and placebo vitamin c groups  17.6 and 17.5 events per 1000 person-years; hr  1.01; 95% ci  0.92-1.10; p = .86) or prostate cancer (active and placebo vitamin c groups  9.4 and 9.2 cases per 1000 person-years; hr  1.02; 95% ci  0.90-1.15; p = .80). neither vitamin e nor vitamin c had a significant effect on colorectal  lung  or other site-specific cancers. adjustment for adherence and exclusion of the first 4 or 6 years of follow-up did not alter the results. stratification by various cancer risk factors demonstrated no significant modification of the effect of vitamin e on prostate cancer risk or either agent on total cancer risk. conclusions in this large  long-term trial of male physicians  neither vitamin e nor c supplementation reduced the risk of prostate or total cancer. these data provide no support for the use of these supplements for the prevention of cancer in middle-aged and older men. trial registration clinicaltrials.gov identifier: nct00270647.
1997,the kinase regulator mob1 acts as a patterning protein for stentor morphogenesis,morphogenesis and pattern formation are vital processes in any organism  whether unicellular or multicellular. but in contrast to the developmental biology of plants and animals  the principles of morphogenesis and pattern formation in single cells remain largely unknown. although all cells develop patterns  they are most obvious in ciliates; hence  we have turned to a classical unicellular model system  the giant ciliate stentor coeruleus. here we show that the rna interference (rnai) machinery is conserved in stentor. using rnai  we identify the kinase coactivator mob1--with conserved functions in cell division and morphogenesis from plants to humans-as an asymmetrically localized patterning protein required for global patterning during development and regeneration in stentor. our studies reopen the door for stentor as a model regeneration system.
1999,can we apply the national cholesterol education program adult treatment panel definition of the metabolic syndrome to asians?,objective limited information is available about the metabolic syndrome in asians. furthermore  the definition of central obesity using waist circumference may not be appropriate for asians. the objectives of this study were to determine the optimal waist circumference for diagnosing central obesity in asians and to estimate the prevalence of the metabolic syndrome in an asian population. research design and methods we used data from the 1998 singapore national health survey  a cross-sectional survey involving 4 723 men and women of chinese  malay  and asian-indian ethnicity aged 18-69 years. receiver operating characteristic analysis suggested that waist circumference >80 cm in women and >90 cm in men was a more appropriate definition of central obesity in this population. the prevalence of the metabolic syndrome was then determined using the national cholesterol education program adult treatment panel iii (ncep atp iii) criteria with and without the modified waist circumference criteria. results in asians  decreasing waist circumference increased the crude prevalence of the metabolic syndrome from 12.2 to 17.9%. using the modified asian criteria  the prevalence of the metabolic syndrome increased from 2.9% in those aged 18-30 years to 31.0% in those aged 60-69 years. it was more common in men (prevalence 20.9% in men versus 15.5% in women; p < 0.001) and asian indians (prevalence 28.8% in asian-indians  24.2% in malays  and 14.8% in chinese; p < 0.001). conclusions ncep atp iii criteria  applied to an asian population  will underestimate the population at risk. with a lower waist circumference cutoff  the prevalence of the metabolic syndrome is comparable to that in western populations. ethnic differences are likely to exist between populations across asia.
2001,the histone acetyltransferase mof is a key regulator of the embryonic stem cell core transcriptional network.,pluripotent embryonic stem cells (escs) maintain self-renewal and the potential for rapid response to differentiation cues. both esc features are subject to epigenetic regulation. here we show that the histone acetyltransferase mof plays an essential role in the maintenance of esc self-renewal and pluripotency. escs with mof deletion lose characteristic morphology  alkaline phosphatase (ap) staining  and differentiation potential. they also have aberrant expression of the core transcription factors nanog  oct4  and sox2. importantly  the phenotypes of mof null escs can be partially suppressed by nanog overexpression  supporting the idea that mof functions as an upstream regulator of nanog in escs. genome-wide chip-sequencing and transcriptome analyses further demonstrate that mof is an integral component of the esc core transcriptional network and that mof primes genes for diverse developmental programs. mof is also required for wdr5 recruitment and h3k4 methylation at key regulatory loci  highlighting the complexity and interconnectivity of various chromatin regulators in escs.
2003,vitamin d and prevention of colorectal cancer.,background inadequate photosynthesis or oral intake of vitamin d are associated with high incidence rates of colorectal cancer  but the dose-response relationship has not been adequately studied. methods dose-response gradients from observational studies of vitamin d intake and serum 25-hydroxyvitamin d were plotted as trend lines. the point on each linear trend line corresponding to an odds ratio of 0.50 provided the prediagnostic vitamin d intake or 25-hydroxyvitamin d concentration associated with 50% lower risk compared to <100iu/day vitamin d or <13ng/ml serum 25-hydroxyvitamin d. medians of these values were determined. results overall  individuals with >or=1000iu/day oral vitamin d (p<0.0001) or >or=33ng/ml (82nmol/l) serum 25-hydroxyvitamin d (p<0.01) had 50% lower incidence of colorectal cancer compared to reference values. conclusions intake of 1000iu/day of vitamin d  half the safe upper intake established by the national academy of sciences  was associated with 50% lower risk. serum 25-hydroxyvitamin d of 33ng/ml  which is known to be safe  also was associated with 50% lower risk. prompt public health action is needed to increase intake of vitamin d(3) to 1000iu/day  and to raise 25-hydroxyvitamin d by encouraging a modest duration of sunlight exposure.
2005,cdna and genomic cloning of lacritin  a novel secretion enhancing factor from the human lacrimal gland.,multiple extracellular factors are hypothesized to promote the differentiation of unstimulated and/or stimulated secretory pathways in exocrine secretory cells  but the identity of differentiation factors  particularly those organ-specific  remain largely unknown. here  we report on the identification of a novel secreted glycoprotein  lacritin  that enhances exocrine secretion in overnight cultures of lacrimal acinar cells which otherwise display loss of secretory function. lacritin mrna and protein are highly expressed in human lacrimal gland  moderately in major and minor salivary glands and slightly in thyroid. no lacritin message or protein is detected elsewhere among more than 50 human tissues examined. lacritin displays partial similarity to the glycosaminoglycan-binding region of brain-specific neuroglycan c (32 % identity over 102 amino acid residues) and to the possibly mucin-like amino globular region of fibulin-2 (30 % identity over 81 amino acid residues)  and localizes primarily to secretory granules and secretory fluid. the lacritin gene consists of five exons  displays no alternative splicing and maps to 12q13. recombinant lacritin augments unstimulated but not stimulated acinar cell secretion  promotes ductal cell proliferation  and stimulates signaling through tyrosine phosphorylation and release of calcium. it binds collagen iv  laminin-1  entactin/nidogen-1  fibronectin and vitronectin  but not collagen i  heparin or egf. as an autocrine/paracrine enhancer of the lacrimal constitutive secretory pathway  ductal cell mitogen and stimulator of corneal epithelial cells  lacritin may play a key role in the function of the lacrimal gland-corneal axis.
2007,proteomic and genomic approaches reveal critical functions of h3k9 methylation and heterochromatin protein-1γ in reprogramming to pluripotency,reprogramming of somatic cells into induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs) involves a marked reorganization of chromatin. to identify post-translational histone modifications that change in global abundance during this process  we have applied a quantitative mass-spectrometry-based approach. we found that ipscs  compared with both the starting fibroblasts and a late reprogramming intermediate (pre-ipscs)  are enriched for histone modifications associated with active chromatin  and depleted for marks of transcriptional elongation and a subset of repressive modifications including h3k9me2/me3. dissecting the contribution of h3k9 methylation to reprogramming  we show that the h3k9 methyltransferases ehmt1  ehmt2 and setdb1 regulate global h3k9me2/me3 levels and that their depletion increases ipsc formation from both fibroblasts and pre-ipscs. similarly  we find that inhibition of heterochromatin protein-1γ (cbx3)  a protein known to recognize h3k9 methylation  enhances reprogramming. genome-wide location analysis revealed that cbx3 predominantly binds active genes in both pre-ipscs and pluripotent cells but with a strikingly different distribution: in pre-ipscs  but not in embryonic stem cells  cbx3 associates with active transcriptional start sites  suggesting a developmentally regulated role for cbx3 in transcriptional activation. despite largely non-overlapping functions and the predominant association of cbx3 with active transcription  the h3k9 methyltransferases and cbx3 both inhibit reprogramming by repressing the pluripotency factor nanog. together  our findings demonstrate that cbx3 and h3k9 methylation restrict late reprogramming events  and suggest that a marked change in global chromatin character constitutes an epigenetic roadblock for reprogramming.
2009,the relation between dietary flavonol intake and coronary heart disease mortality: a meta-analysis of prospective cohort studies,objective: to assess the association of dietary flavonol intake with the subsequent risk of coronary heart disease (chd) mortality. design: meta-analysis of prospective cohort studies published before september 2001. studies were identified by medline and embase searches and by scanning relevant reference lists. the following information was extracted from published reports: size of cohort  mean age  mean duration of follow-up  number of fatal chd events  mean flavonol intake  main sources of flavonol intake  degree of adjustment for potential confounders  and the relation of chd mortality to dietary flavonol intake measured at baseline. results: seven prospective cohorts of men and women were identified including a total of 2087 fatal chd events. comparison of individuals in the top third with those in the bottom third of dietary flavonol intake yielded a combined risk ratio of 0.80 (95% ci 0.69–0.93) after adjustment for known chd risk factors and other dietary components. conclusion: this overview of prospective cohort studies indicates that high dietary intake of flavonols from a small number of fruits and vegetables  tea and red wine may be associated with a reduced risk from chd mortality in free-living populations. sponsorship: institute for international health  university of sydney.
2011,osteoclasts promote the formation of hematopoietic stem cell niches in the bone marrow,formation of the hematopoietic stem cell (hsc) niche in bone marrow (bm) is tightly associated with endochondral ossification  but little is known about the mechanisms involved. we used the oc/oc mouse  a mouse model with impaired endochondral ossification caused by a loss of osteoclast (ocl) activity  to investigate the role of osteoblasts (obls) and ocls in the hsc niche formation. the absence of ocl activity resulted in a defective hsc niche associated with an increased proportion of mesenchymal progenitors but reduced osteoblastic differentiation  leading to impaired hsc homing to the bm. restoration of ocl activity reversed the defect in hsc niche formation. our data demonstrate that obls are required for establishing hsc niches and that osteoblastic development is induced by ocls. these findings broaden our knowledge of the hsc niche formation  which is critical for understanding normal and pathological hematopoiesis.
2013,involvement of transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 receptors in protease-activated receptor-2-induced joint inflammation and nociception.,protease-activated receptor-2 (par-2) is a g-protein-coupled receptor activated through proteolytic cleavage. it is localized on epithelial  endothelial and inflammatory cells  as well as on transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (trpv1) receptor-expressing neurones. it plays an important role in inflammatory/nociceptive processes. since there are few reports concerning par-2 function in joints  the effects of intraarticular par-2 activation on joint pain and inflammation were studied. secondary hyperalgesia/allodynia  spontaneous weight distribution  swelling and inflammatory cytokine production were measured and the involvement of trpv1 ion channels was investigated in rats and mice. injection of the par-2 receptor agonist sligrl-nh(2) into the knee decreased touch sensitivity and weight bearing of the ipsilateral hindlimb in both species. secondary mechanical allodynia/hyperalgesia and impaired weight distribution were significantly reduced by the trpv1 antagonist sb366791 in rats and by the genetic deletion of this receptor in mice. par-2 activation did not cause significant joint swelling  but increased il-1beta concentration which was not influenced by the lack of the trpv1 channel. for comparison  intraplantar sligrl-nh(2) evoked similar primary mechanical hyperalgesia and impaired weight distribution in both wt and trpv1 deficient mice  but oedema was smaller in the knockouts. the inactive peptide  lrgils-nh(2)  injected into either site did not induce any inflammatory or nociceptive changes. these data provide evidence for a significant role of trpv1 receptors in secondary mechanical hyperalgesia/allodynia and spontaneous pain induced by par-2 receptor activation in the knee joint. although intraplantar par-2 activation-induced oedema is also trpv1 receptor-mediated  primary mechanical hyperalgesia  impaired weight distribution and il-1beta production are independent of this channel.
2015,functional architecture of rna polymerase i,synthesis of ribosomal rna (rrna) by rna polymerase (pol) i is the first step in ribosome biogenesis and a regulatory switch in eukaryotic cell growth. here we report the 12 a cryo-electron microscopic structure for the complete 14-subunit yeast pol i  a homology model for the core enzyme  and the crystal structure of the subcomplex a14/43. in the resulting hybrid structure of pol i  a14/43  the clamp  and the dock domain contribute to a unique surface interacting with promoter-specific initiation factors. the pol i-specific subunits a49 and a34.5 form a heterodimer near the enzyme funnel that acts as a built-in elongation factor and is related to the pol ii-associated factor tfiif. in contrast to pol ii  pol i has a strong intrinsic 3'-rna cleavage activity  which requires the c-terminal domain of subunit a12.2 and  apparently  enables ribosomal rna proofreading and 3'-end trimming.
2017,rapid induction of alternative lengthening of telomeres by depletion of the histone chaperone asf1,the mechanism of activation of the alternative lengthening of telomeres (alt) pathway of mammalian chromosome-end maintenance has been unclear. we have now discovered that co-depletion of the histone chaperones asf1a and asf1b in human cells induced all hallmarks of alt in both primary and cancer cells. these included the formation of alt-associated pml (promyelocytic leukemia) bodies (apbs)  the presence of extrachromosomal telomeric dna species  an elevated frequency of telomeric sister chromatid exchanges (t-sce) events and intertelomeric exchange of an integrated tag. the induction of alt characteristics in this setting led to the simultaneous suppression of telomerase. we determined that alt induction is positively regulated by the proteins rad17 and blm and negatively regulated by exo1 and dna2. the induction of alt phenotypes as a consequence of asf1 depletion strongly supports the hypothesis that alt is a consequence of histone management dysfunction.
2019,arachidonic acid cytochrome p450 epoxygenase pathway.,cytochrome p450 (cyp) epoxygenases convert arachidonic acid to four epoxyeicosatrienoic acid (eet) regioisomers  5 6-  8 9-  11 12-  and 14 15-eet  that function as autacrine and paracrine mediators. eets produce vascular relaxation by activating smooth muscle large-conductance ca2+-activated k+ channels (bkca). in addition  they have anti-inflammatory effects on blood vessels and in the kidney  promote angiogenesis  and protect ischemic myocardium and brain. cyp epoxygenases also convert eicosapentaenoic acid to vasoactive epoxy-derivatives  and endocannabinoids containing 11 12- and 14 15-eet are formed. many eet actions appear to be initiated by eet binding to a membrane receptor that activates ion channels and intracellular signal transduction pathways. however  eets also are taken up by cells  are incorporated into phospholipids  and bind to cytosolic proteins and nuclear receptors  suggesting that some functions may occur through direct interaction of the eet with intracellular effector systems. soluble epoxide hydrolase (seh) converts eets to dihydroxyeicosatrienoic acids (dhets). because this attenuates many of the functional effects of eets  seh inhibition is being evaluated as a mechanism for increasing and prolonging the beneficial actions of eets.
2021,residual lifetime risk for developing hypertension in middle-aged women and men: the framingham heart study.,context the long-term risk for developing hypertension is best described by the lifetime risk statistic. the lifetime risk for hypertension and trends in this risk over time are unknown. objectives to estimate the residual lifetime risk for hypertension in older us adults and to evaluate temporal trends in this risk. design  setting  and participants community-based prospective cohort study of 1298 participants from the framingham heart study who were aged 55 to 65 years and free of hypertension at baseline (1976-1998). main outcome measures residual lifetime risk (lifetime cumulative incidence not adjusted for competing causes of mortality) for hypertension  defined as blood pressure of 140/90 mm hg or greater or use of antihypertensive medications. results the residual lifetime risks for developing hypertension and stage 1 high blood pressure or higher (greater-than-or-equal to 140/90 mm hg regardless of treatment) were 90% in both 55- and 65-year-old participants. the lifetime probability of receiving antihypertensive medication was 60%. the risk for hypertension remained unchanged for women  but it was approximately 60% higher for men in the contemporary 1976-1998 period compared with an earlier 1952-1975 period. in contrast  the residual lifetime risk for stage 2 high blood pressure or higher (greater-than-or-equal to 160/100 mm hg regardless of treatment) was considerably lower in both sexes in the recent period (35%-57% in 1952-1975 vs 35%-44% in 1976-1998)  likely due to a marked increase in treatment of individuals with substantially elevated blood pressure. conclusion the residual lifetime risk for hypertension for middle-aged and elderly individuals is 90%  indicating a huge public health burden. although the decline in lifetime risk for stage 2 high blood pressure or higher represents a major achievement  efforts should be directed at the primary prevention of hypertension.
2023,mechanism and regulation of dna end resection in eukaryotes.,the repair of dna double-strand breaks (dsbs) by homologous recombination (hr) is initiated by nucleolytic degradation of the 5'-terminated strands in a process termed end resection. end resection generates 3'-single-stranded dna tails  substrates for rad51 to catalyze homologous pairing and dna strand exchange  and for activation of the dna damage checkpoint. the commonly accepted view is that end resection occurs by a two-step mechanism. in the first step  sae2/ctip activates the mre11-rad50-xrs2/nbs1 (mrx/n) complex to endonucleolytically cleave the 5'-terminated dna strands close to break ends  and in the second step exo1 and/or dna2 nucleases extend the resected tracts to produce long 3'-ssdna-tailed intermediates. initiation of resection commits a cell to repair a dsb by hr because long ssdna overhangs are poor substrates for non-homologous end joining (nhej). thus  the initiation of end resection has emerged as a critical control point for repair pathway choice. here  i review recent studies on the mechanism of end resection and how this process is regulated to ensure the most appropriate repair outcome.
2025,post-prenylation-processing enzymes as new targets in oncogenesis,ras and many other oncogenic proteins undergo a complex series of post-translational modifications that are initiated by the addition of an isoprenoid lipid through a process known as prenylation. following prenylation  these proteins usually undergo endoproteolytic processing by the rce1 protease and then carboxyl methylation by a unique methyltransferase known as isoprenylcysteine carboxyl methyltransferase (icmt). although inhibitors that have been designed to target the prenylation step are now in advanced-stage clinical trials  their utility and efficacy seem to be limited. recent findings  however  indicate that the inhibition of these post-prenylation-processing steps — particularly that of icmt-catalysed methylation — might provide a better approach to the control of cancer-cell proliferation.
2027,ubiquitination on nonlysine residues by a viral e3 ubiquitin ligase.,ubiquitination controls a broad range of cellular functions. the last step of the ubiquitination pathway is regulated by enzyme type 3 (e3) ubiquitin ligases. e3 enzymes are responsible for substrate specificity and catalyze the formation of an isopeptide bond between a lysine residue of the substrate (or the n terminus of the substrate) and ubiquitin. mir1 and mir2 are two e3 ubiquitin ligases encoded by kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus that mediate the ubiquitination of major histocompatibility complex class i (mhc i) molecules and subsequent internalization. here  we found that mir1  but not mir2  promoted down-regulation of mhc i molecules lacking lysine residues in their intracytoplasmic domain. in the presence of mir1  these mhc i molecules were ubiquitinated  and their association with ubiquitin was sensitive to beta2-mercaptoethanol  unlike lysine-ubiquitin bonds. this form of ubiquitination required a cysteine residue in the intracytoplasmic tail of mhc i molecules. an mhc i molecule containing a single cysteine residue in an artificial glycine and alanine intracytoplasmic domain was endocytosed and degraded in the presence of mir1. thus  ubiquitination can occur on proteins lacking accessible lysines or an accessible n terminus.
2029,hormone replacement therapy prevents bone loss in patients with inflammatory bowel disease.,patients with inflammatory bowel disease have an increased prevalence of osteoporosis  and suffer high rates of spinal bone loss. hormone replacement therapy (hrt) is effective in the treatment and prevention of osteoporosis but has not been studied in patients with inflammatory bowel disease. a two year prospective study of hrt in inflammatory bowel disease was performed in 47 postmenopausal women aged 44 to 67 years with ulcerative colitis (25) or crohn's disease (22). patients had radial and spinal bone density measured annually by single photon absorptiometry and quantitative computed tomography respectively. the mean (95% confidence intervals) annual change in radial bone density was +1.42%/yr (+0.58 to +2.26; p < 0.005) and for spinal bone +2.60%/yr (+1.06 to +4.15; p < 0.005). there was no significant correlation between rates of change of bone density at the two sites  or between the rates of change and the initial bone density either in the radius or spine. twelve patients were given prednisolone during the study  and their rates of change for spinal bone density were lower  but values were not statistically significantly different from those who did not receive corticosteroids. changes in bone density for patients with ulcerative colitis and crohn's disease were not significantly different. the change in bone density did not correlate with the patients' age or number of years after the menopause. it is concluded that hrt is effective in prevention of bone loss in postmenopausal women with inflammatory bowel disease.
2031,pharmacist participation on physician rounds and adverse drug events in the intensive care unit.,context pharmacist review of medication orders in the intensive care unit (icu) has been shown to prevent errors  and pharmacist consultation has reduced drug costs. however  whether pharmacist participation in the icu at the time of drug prescribing reduces adverse events has not been studied. objective to measure the effect of pharmacist participation on medical rounds in the icu on the rate of preventable adverse drug events (ades) caused by ordering errors. design before-after comparison between phase 1 (baseline) and phase 2 (after intervention implemented) and phase 2 comparison with a control unit that did not receive the intervention. setting a medical icu (study unit) and a coronary care unit (control unit) in a large urban teaching hospital. patients seventy-five patients randomly selected from each of 3 groups: all admissions to the study unit from february 1  1993  through july 31  1993 (baseline) and all admissions to the study unit (postintervention) and control unit from october 1  1994  through july 7  1995. in addition  50 patients were selected at random from the control unit during the baseline period. intervention a senior pharmacist made rounds with the icu team and remained in the icu for consultation in the morning  and was available on call throughout the day. main outcome measures preventable ades due to ordering (prescribing) errors and the number  type  and acceptance of interventions made by the pharmacist. preventable ades were identified by review of medical records of the randomly selected patients during both preintervention and postintervention phases. pharmacists recorded all recommendations  which were then analyzed by type and acceptance. results the rate of preventable ordering ades decreased by 66% from 10.4 per 1000 patient-days (95% confidence interval [ci]  7-14) before the intervention to 3.5 (95% ci  1-5; p<.001) after the intervention. in the control unit  the rate was essentially unchanged during the same time periods: 10.9 (95% ci  6-16) and 12.4 (95% ci  8-17) per 1000 patient-days. the pharmacist made 366 recommendations related to drug ordering  of which 362 (99%) were accepted by physicians. conclusions the presence of a pharmacist on rounds as a full member of the patient care team in a medical icu was associated with a substantially lower rate of ades caused by prescribing errors. nearly all the changes were readily accepted by physicians.
2033,motifmap: integrative genome-wide maps of regulatory motif sites for model species,background a central challenge of biology is to map and understand gene regulation on a genome-wide scale. for any given genome  only a small fraction of the regulatory elements embedded in the dna sequence have been characterized  and there is great interest in developing computational methods to systematically map all these elements and understand their relationships. such computational efforts  however  are significantly hindered by the overwhelming size of non-coding regions and the statistical variability and complex spatial organizations of regulatory elements and interactions. genome-wide catalogs of regulatory elements for all model species simply do not yet exist. results the motifmap system uses databases of transcription factor binding motifs  refined genome alignments  and a comparative genomic statistical approach to provide comprehensive maps of candidate regulatory elements encoded in the genomes of model species. the system is used to derive new genome-wide maps for yeast  fly  worm  mouse  and human. the human map contains 519 108 sites for 570 matrices with a false discovery rate of 0.1 or less. the new maps are assessed in several ways  for instance using high-throughput experimental chip-seq data and auc statistics  providing strong evidence for their accuracy and coverage. the maps can be usefully integrated with many other kinds of omic data and are available at http://motifmap.igb.uci.edu/.   conclusions motifmap and its integration with other data provide a foundation for analyzing gene regulation on a genome-wide scale  and for automatically generating regulatory pathways and hypotheses. the power of this approach is demonstrated and discussed using the p53 apoptotic pathway and the gli hedgehog pathways as examples.
2035,early chromatin unfolding by runx1: a molecular explanation for differential requirements during specification versus maintenance of the hematopoietic gene expression program.,at the cellular level  development progresses through successive regulatory states  each characterized by their specific gene expression profile. however  the molecular mechanisms regulating first the priming and then maintenance of gene expression within one developmental pathway are essentially unknown. the hematopoietic system represents a powerful experimental model to address these questions and here we have focused on a regulatory circuit playing a central role in myelopoiesis: the transcription factor pu.1  its target gene colony-stimulating-factor 1 receptor (csf1r)  and key upstream regulators such as runx1. we find that during ontogeny  chromatin unfolding precedes the establishment of active histone marks and the formation of stable transcription factor complexes at the pu.1 locus and we show that chromatin remodeling is mediated by the transient binding of runx1 to pu.1 cis-elements. by contrast  chromatin reorganization of csf1r requires prior expression of pu.1 together with runx1 binding. once the full hematopoietic program is established  stable transcription factor complexes and active chromatin can be maintained without runx1. our experiments therefore demonstrate how individual transcription factors function in a differentiation stage-specific manner to differentially affect the initiation versus maintenance of a developmental program.
2037,lin28b induces neuroblastoma and enhances mycn levels via let-7 suppression,lin28b regulates developmental processes by modulating micrornas (mirnas) of the let-7 family. a role for lin28b in cancer has been proposed but has not been established in vivo. here  we report that lin28b showed genomic aberrations and extensive overexpression in high-risk neuroblastoma compared to several other tumor entities and normal tissues. high lin28b expression was an independent risk factor for adverse outcome in neuroblastoma. lin28b signaled through repression of the let-7 mirnas and consequently resulted in elevated mycn protein expression in neuroblastoma cells. lin28b–let-7–mycn signaling blocked differentiation of normal neuroblasts and neuroblastoma cells. these findings were fully recapitulated in a mouse model in which lin28b expression in the sympathetic adrenergic lineage induced development of neuroblastomas marked by low let-7 mirna levels and high mycn protein expression. interference with this pathway might offer therapeutic perspectives.
2039,the association between psychological distance and construal level: evidence from an implicit association test.,according to construal level theory (n. liberman  y. trope  & e. stephan  in press; y. trope & n. liberman  2003)  people use a more abstract  high construal level when judging  perceiving  and predicting more psychologically distal targets  and they judge more abstract targets as being more psychologically distal. the present research demonstrated that associations between more distance and higher level of construal also exist on a pure conceptual level. eight experiments used the implicit association test (iat; a. g. greenwald  d. e. mcghee  & j. l. k. schwartz  1998) to demonstrate an association between words related to construal level (low vs. high) and words related to four dimensions of distance (proximal vs. distal): temporal distance  spatial distance  social distance  and hypotheticality. in addition to demonstrating an association between level of construal and psychological distance  these findings also corroborate the assumption that all 4 dimensions of psychological distance are related to level of construal in a similar way and support the notion that they all are forms of psychological distance.
2041,inflammatory monocyte/macrophage modulation by liposome-entrapped spironolactone ameliorates acute lung injury in mice.,aim to examine the therapeutic/preventive potential of liposome-encapsulated spironolactone (sp; lipo-sp) for acute lung injury (ali) and fibrosis. materials & methods lipo-sp was prepared by the film-ultrasonic method  and physicochemical and pharmacokinetic characterized for oral administration (10 and 20 mg/kg for sp-loaded liposome; 20 mg/kg for free sp) in a mouse model bleomycin-induced ali. results lipo-sp enhanced bioavailability of sp with significant amelioration in lung pathology. mechanistically  sp-mediated mineralocorticoid receptor antagonism contributes to inflammatory monocyte/macrophage modulation via an inhibitory effect on ly6c(hi) monocytosis-directed m2 polarization of alveolar macrophages. moreover  lipo-sp at lower dose (10 mg/kg) exhibited more improvement in body weight gain. conclusion our data highlight lipo-sp as a promising approach with therapeutic/preventive potential for ali and fibrosis.
2043,reduction of transmission from malaria patients by artemisinin combination therapies: a pooled analysis of six randomized trials,background artemisinin combination therapies (act)  which are increasingly being introduced for treatment of plasmodium falciparum malaria  are more effective against sexual stage parasites (gametocytes) than previous first-line antimalarials and therefore have the potential to reduce parasite transmission. the size of this effect is estimated in symptomatic p. falciparum infections. methods data on 3 174 patients were pooled from six antimalarial trials conducted in the gambia and kenya. multivariable regression was used to investigate the role of act versus non-artemisinin antimalarial treatment  treatment failure  presence of pre-treatment gametocytes and submicroscopic gametocytaemia on transmission to mosquitoes and the area under the curve (auc) of gametocyte density during the 28 days of follow up. results act treatment was associated with a significant reduction in the probability of being gametocytaemic on the day of transmission experiments (or 0.20 95% ci 0.16-0.26)  transmission to mosquitoes by slide-positive gametocyte carriers (or mosquito infection 0.49 95% ci 0.33-0.73) and auc of gametocyte density (ratio of means 0.35 95% ci 0.31-0.41). parasitological treatment failure did not account for the difference between act and non-artemisinin impact. the presence of slide-positive gametocytaemia prior to treatment significantly reduced act impact on gametocytaemia (p < 0.001). taking account of submicroscopic gametocytaemia reduced estimates of act impact in a high transmission setting in kenya  but not in a lower transmission setting in the gambia. conclusion treatment with act significantly reduces infectiousness of individual patients with uncomplicated falciparum malaria compared to previous first line treatments. rapid treatment of cases before gametocytaemia is well developed may enhance the impact of act on transmission.
2045,mapping of a gene for severe pediatric gastroesophageal reflux to chromosome 13q14.,context gastroesophageal reflux (ger) has not previously been widely regarded as a hereditary disease. a few reports have suggested  however  that a genetic component may contribute to the incidence of ger  especially in its severe or chronic forms. objective to identify a genetic locus that cosegregates with a severe pediatric ger phenotype in families with multiple affected members. design a genome-wide scan of families affected by severe pediatric ger using polymorphic microsatellite markers spaced at an average of 8 centimorgans (cm)  followed by haplotyping and by pairwise and multipoint linkage analyses. setting general us community  with research performed in a university tertiary care hospital. subjects affected and unaffected family members from 5 families having multiple individuals affected by severe pediatric ger  identified through a patient support group. main outcome measures determination of inheritance patterns and linkage of a genetic locus with the severe pediatric ger phenotype by logarithm-of-odds (lod) score analysis  considering a lod score of 3 or greater as evidence of linkage. results in these families  severe pediatric ger followed an autosomal dominant hereditary pattern with high penetrance. a gene for severe pediatric ger was mapped to a 13-cm region on chromosome 13q between microsatellite markers d13s171 and d13s263. a maximum multifamily 2-point lod score of 5.58 and a maximum multifamily multipoint lod score of 7.15 were obtained for marker d13s1253 at map position 35 cm when presumptively affected persons were modeled as unknown (a maximum multipoint score of 4.88 was obtained when presumptively affected persons were modeled as unaffected). conclusion these data suggest that a gene for severe pediatric ger maps to chromosome 13q14. jama. 2000;284:325-334
2047,haemolysin coregulated protein is an exported receptor and chaperone of type vi secretion substrates.,secretion systems require high-fidelity mechanisms to discriminate substrates among the vast cytoplasmic pool of proteins. factors mediating substrate recognition by the type vi secretion system (t6ss) of gram-negative bacteria  a widespread pathway that translocates effector proteins into target bacterial cells  have not been defined. we report that haemolysin coregulated protein (hcp)  a ring-shaped hexamer secreted by all characterized t6sss  binds specifically to cognate effector molecules. electron microscopy analysis of an hcp-effector complex from pseudomonas aeruginosa revealed the effector bound to the inner surface of hcp. further studies demonstrated that interaction with the hcp pore is a general requirement for secretion of diverse effectors encompassing several enzymatic classes. though previous models depict hcp as a static conduit  our data indicate it is a chaperone and receptor of substrates. these unique functions of a secreted protein highlight fundamental differences between the export mechanism of t6 and other characterized secretory pathways.
2049,roles for micrornas in conferring robustness to biological processes,biological systems use a variety of mechanisms to maintain their functions in the face of environmental and genetic perturbations. increasing evidence suggests that  among their roles as posttranscriptional repressors of gene expression  micrornas (mirnas) help to confer robustness to biological processes by reinforcing transcriptional programs and attenuating aberrant transcripts  and they may in some network contexts help suppress random fluctuations in transcript copy number. these activities have important consequences for normal development and physiology  disease  and evolution. here  we will discuss examples and principles of mirnas that contribute to robustness in animal systems.
2051,apolipoprotein e genotype and concussion in college athletes.,objective to evaluate the association between apolipoprotein e (apoe) polymorphisms (e2  c/t arg158cys; e4  t/c cys112arg; and promoter  g-219t) and the history of concussion in college athletes. we hypothesized that carrying 1 or more apoe rare (or minor) allele assessed in this study would be associated with having a history of 1 or more concussions. design multicenter cross-sectional study. setting university athletic facilities. participants one hundred ninety-six male football (n = 163) and female soccer (n = 33) college athletes volunteered. interventions written concussion history questionnaire and saliva samples for genotyping. main outcome measures self-reported history of a documented concussion and rare apoe genotype (e2  e4  promoter). results there was a significant association (wald χ² = 3.82; p = 0.05; odds ratio = 9.8) between carrying all apoe rare alleles and the history of a previous concussion. there was also a significant association (wald χ² = 3.96  p = 0.04  odds ratio = 8.4) between carrying the apoe promoter minor allele and experiencing 2 or more concussions. conclusions carriers of all 3 apoe rare (or minor) alleles assessed in this study were nearly 10 times more likely to report a previous concussion and may be at a greater risk of concussion versus noncarriers. promoter minor allele carriers were 8.4 times more likely to report multiple concussions and may be at a greater risk of multiple concussions versus noncarriers. research involving larger samples of individuals with multiple concussions and carriers of multiple apoe rare alleles is warranted.
2053,gata-4 and gata-6 modulate tissue-specific transcription of the human gene for p450c17 by direct interaction with sp1.,cytochrome p450c17 catalyzes steroidogenic 17alpha-hydroxylase and 17 20 lyase activities. expression of the gene for p450c17 is camp dependent  tissue specific  developmentally programmed  and varies among species. binding of sp1  sp3  and nf1-c (nuclear factor 1-c) to the first 227 bp of 5'flanking dna (-227/luc) is crucial for basal transcription in human nci-h295a adrenal cells. human placental jeg-3 cells contain sp1  sp3  and nf1  but do not express -227/luc  even when transfected with a vector expressing steroidogenic factor 1 (sf-1). therefore  other factors are essential for basal expression of p450c17. deoxyribonuclease i footprinting and emsas identified a gata consensus site at -64/-58 and an sf-1 site at -58/-50. rt-pcr identified gata-4  gata-6  and sf-1 in nci-h295a cells and gata-2 and gata-3  but not gata-4  gata-6  or sf-1 in jeg-3 cells. cotransfection of either gata-4 or gata-6 without sf-1 activated -227/luc in jeg-3 cells  but cotransfection of gata-2 or gata-3 with or without sf-1 did not. surprisingly  mutation of the gata binding site in -227/luc increased gata-4 or gata-6 induced activity  whereas mutation of the sp1/sp3 site decreased it. furthermore  promoter constructs including the gata site  but excluding the sp1/sp3 site at -196/-188  were not activated by gata-4 or gata-6  suggesting an interaction between sp1/sp3 and gata-4 or gata-6. glutathione-s-transferase pull-down experiments and coimmunoprecipitation demonstrated interaction between gata-4 or gata-6 and sp1  but not sp3. chromatin immunoprecipitation assays confirmed that this gata-4/6 interaction with sp1 occurred at the sp site in the p450c17 promoter in nci-h295a cells. demethylation with 5-aza-2-deoxycytidine permitted jeg-3 cells to express endogenous p450c17  sf-1  gata-4  gata-6  and transfected -227/luc. thus  gata-4 or gata-6 and sp1 together regulate expression of p450c17 in adrenal nci-h295a cells and methylation of p450c17  gata-4 and gata-6 silence the expression of p450c17 in placental jeg-3 cells.
2055,the pneucarriage project: a multi-centre comparative study to identify the best serotyping methods for examining pneumococcal carriage in vaccine evaluation studies,background the pneumococcus is a diverse pathogen whose primary niche is the nasopharynx. over 90 different serotypes exist  and nasopharyngeal carriage of multiple serotypes is common. understanding pneumococcal carriage is essential for evaluating the impact of pneumococcal vaccines. traditional serotyping methods are cumbersome and insufficient for detecting multiple serotype carriage  and there are few data comparing the new methods that have been developed over the past decade. we established the pneucarriage project  a large  international multi-centre study dedicated to the identification of the best pneumococcal serotyping methods for carriage studies. methods and findings reference sample sets were distributed to 15 research groups for blinded testing. twenty pneumococcal serotyping methods were used to test 81 laboratory-prepared (spiked) samples. the five top-performing methods were used to test 260 nasopharyngeal (field) samples collected from children in six high-burden countries. sensitivity and positive predictive value (ppv) were determined for the test methods and the reference method (traditional serotyping of >100 colonies from each sample). for the alternate serotyping methods  the overall sensitivity ranged from 1% to 99% (reference method 98%)  and ppv from 8% to 100% (reference method 100%)  when testing the spiked samples. fifteen methods had ≥70% sensitivity to detect the dominant (major) serotype  whilst only eight methods had ≥70% sensitivity to detect minor serotypes. for the field samples  the overall sensitivity ranged from 74.2% to 95.8% (reference method 93.8%)  and ppv from 82.2% to 96.4% (reference method 99.6%). the microarray had the highest sensitivity (95.8%) and high ppv (93.7%). the major limitation of this study is that not all of the available alternative serotyping methods were included. conclusions most methods were able to detect the dominant serotype in a sample  but many performed poorly in detecting the minor serotype populations. microarray with a culture amplification step was the top-performing method. results from this comprehensive evaluation will inform future vaccine evaluation and impact studies  particularly in low-income settings  where pneumococcal disease burden remains high.
2057,growth and invasion of human melanomas in human skin grafted to immunodeficient mice.,an orthotopic model of human melanoma was developed in which malignant cells were injected into human skin grafted to nude and scid mice. melanoma cells proliferated and invaded the human skin grafts with characteristic patterns. three of six melanomas grew as multiple nodules and infiltered the grafts without major architectural changes in the dermis  whereas the others invaded the dermis along collagen fibers with prominent endothelial vessels. by contrast  melanoma cells inoculated into mouse skin grew as diffusely expanding nodules that did not invade the murine dermis. in human skin grafts  human melanoma cells were angiogenic for human blood vessels  and murine vessels were only found at the periphery of grafts. tumor cells invaded the human vessels  and four out of seven cell lines metastasized to lungs  suggesting that this model is useful to determine in vivo the interactions between normal and malignant human cells.
2059,role of microsomal prostaglandin e synthase-1 in the facilitation of angiogenesis and the healing of gastric ulcers.,the importance of prostaglandin e(2) in various pathophysiological events emphasizes the necessity of understanding the role of pge synthases (pgess) in vivo. however  there has been no report on the functional relevance of microsomal pges-1 (mpges-1) to the physiological healing processes of gastric ulcers  or to angiogenesis  which is indispensable to the healing processes. in this report  we tested whether mpges-1 plays a role in the healing of gastric ulcers and in the enhancement of angiogenesis using mpges-1 knockout mice (mpges-1 ko mice) and their wild-type (wt) counterparts. gastric ulcers were induced by the serosal application of 100% acetic acid  and the areas of the ulcers were measured thereafter. mpges-1 together with cyclooxygenase-2 were induced in the granulation tissues compared with normal stomach tissues. the healing of acetic acid-induced ulcers was significantly delayed in mpges-1 ko mice compared with wt. this was accompanied with reduced angiogenesis in ulcer granulation tissues  as estimated by cd31 mrna levels determined by real-time pcr and the microvessel density in granulation tissues. the mrna levels of proangiogenic growth factors  such as transforming growth factor-β  basic fibroblast growth factor  and connective tissue growth factor in ulcer granulation tissues determined were reduced in mpges-1 ko mice compared with wt. the present results suggest that mpges-1 enhances the ulcer-healing processes and the angiogenesis indispensable to ulcer healing  and that a selective mpges-1 inhibitor should be used with care in patients with gastric ulcers.
2061,aortic and large artery compliance in end-stage renal failure.,pulse wave velocity (pwv) was measured in the aorta  right leg and arm of 90 control subjects (cs) and 92 hemodialysis patients (hd) of the same age and mean arterial pressure (map). blood chemistry  including blood lipids  and echographic dimensions of the aorta  were measured in all subjects. presence of aortic calcification was evaluated by abdominal x-ray and echography. whereas femoral and brachial pwv were only slightly increased in hd (p less than 0.05)  the aortic pwv was significantly elevated (1113 +/- 319 cm/sec) in comparison with cs (965 +/- 216 cm/sec; p = 0.0016). aortic diameters were larger in hd  both at the root of aorta (32.7 +/- 4 vs. 28.2 +/- 2.8 mm; p less than 0.0001) and aortic bifurcation (16.9 +/- 3.1 vs. 14.6 +/- 2.2 mm; p less than 0.0001). although the map was similar in hd (109.9 +/- 19.3 mm hg) and cs (110.2 +/- 17.2 mm hg)  the pulse pressure was significantly increased in hd patients (76.6 +/- 23.7 vs. 63.9 +/- 22 mm hg; p = 0.007). in the two populations  aortic pwv was found to increase with age (p less than 0.0001) and map (p less than 0.0001). the presence of aortic calcification showed only a borderline relationship with the increase in aortic pwv (p = 0.050 in cs and p = 0.069 in hd). as change in pwv is directly related to change in distensibility  and the aortic diameters were increased in hd  these results indicate that aortic wall compliance is decreased in hd  resulting in an increase in the pulsatile component of arterial pressure.(abstract truncated at 250 words)
2063,angina with "normal" coronary arteries: sex differences in outcomes.,background several studies have demonstrated that women with nonobstructive coronary disease have a high rate of subsequent investigations  rehospitalizations for recurrent chest pain  and repeat coronary angiography. the sex specificity of this finding is unclear. we therefore undertook an evaluation of sex differences in rehospitalization for acute coronary syndrome (acs) or chest pain in patients with "angiographically normal" coronaries. methods a retrospective cohort study using prospectively collected angiographic and clinical data on all patients in british columbia  canada  presenting for their first cardiac catheterization with suspected ischemic heart disease but angiographically normal coronaries. results among 32 856 patients  7.1% of men versus 23.3% of women were angiographically normal (p < .001). among angiographically normal patients  women were older and more likely to present with hypertension  prior stroke  chronic obstructive pulmonary disease  and peripheral vascular disease than men  but canadian cardiovascular society class of angina did not vary by sex. within 1 year  1.0% died  (19 women  18 men  p = .27) and 0.6% had a stroke (13 women  9 men  p = .91). readmission to hospital for acs or chest pain requiring catheterization was significantly higher in women compared to men (adjusted or 4.06; 95% ci 1.15-14.31). conclusions in a contemporary  population-based cohort presenting for cardiac catheterization for suspected ischemia  women with angiographically normal coronaries were >4 times more likely to be readmitted to hospital for acs/chest pain within 180 days compared to men. the observed sex difference has important social and economic implications and suggests that traditional diagnostic methods may not be optimal for women.
2065,flow-dependent regulation of kruppel-like factor 2 is mediated by microrna-92a.,background upregulated by atheroprotective flow  the transcription factor krüppel-like factor 2 (klf2) is crucial for maintaining endothelial function. micrornas (mirnas) are noncoding small rnas that regulate gene expression at the posttranscriptional level. we examined the role of mirnas  particularly mir-92a  in the atheroprotective flow-regulated klf2. methods and results dicer knockdown increased the level of klf2 mrna in human umbilical vein endothelial cells  suggesting that klf2 is regulated by mirna. in silico analysis predicted that mir-92a could bind to the 3' untranslated region of klf2 mrna. overexpression of mir-92a decreased the expression of klf2 and the klf2-regulated endothelial nitric oxide synthase and thrombomodulin at mrna and protein levels. a complementary finding is that mir-92a inhibitor increased the mrna and protein expression of klf2  endothelial nitric oxide synthase  and thrombomodulin. subsequent studies revealed that atheroprotective laminar flow downregulated the level of mir-92a precursor to induce klf2  and the level of this flow-induced klf2 was reduced by mir-92a precursor. furthermore  mir-92a level was lower in human umbilical vein endothelial cells exposed to the atheroprotective pulsatile shear flow than under atheroprone oscillatory shear flow. anti-ago1/2 immunoprecipitation coupled with real-time polymerase chain reaction revealed that pulsatile shear flow decreased the functional targeting of mir-92a precursor/klf2 mrna in human umbilical vein endothelial cells. consistent with these findings  mouse carotid arteries receiving mir-92a precursor exhibited impaired vasodilatory response to flow. conclusions atheroprotective flow patterns decrease the level of mir-92a  which in turn increases klf2 expression to maintain endothelial homeostasis.
2067,acetylation of histone h3 lysine 56 regulates replication-coupled nucleosome assembly,chromatin assembly factor 1 (caf-1) and rtt106 participate in the deposition of newly synthesized histones onto replicating dna to form nucleosomes. this process is critical for the maintenance of genome stability and inheritance of functionally specialized chromatin structures in proliferating cells. however  the molecular functions of the acetylation of newly synthesized histones in this dna replication-coupled nucleosome assembly pathway remain enigmatic. here we show that histone h3 acetylated at lysine 56 (h3k56ac) is incorporated onto replicating dna and  by increasing the binding affinity of caf-1 and rtt106 for histone h3  h3k56ac enhances the ability of these histone chaperones to assemble dna into nucleosomes. genetic analysis indicates that h3k56ac acts in a nonredundant manner with the acetylation of the n-terminal residues of h3 and h4 in nucleosome assembly. these results reveal a mechanism by which h3k56ac regulates replication-coupled nucleosome assembly mediated by caf-1 and rtt106.
2069,nadph oxidase controls phagosomal ph and antigen cross-presentation in human dendritic cells.,the phagocyte nadph oxidase (nox2) is critical for the bactericidal activity of phagocytic cells and plays a major role in innate immunity. we showed recently that nox2 activity in mouse dendritic cells (dcs) prevents acidification of phagosomes  promoting antigen cross-presentation. in order to investigate the role of nox2 in the regulation of the phagosomal ph in human dcs  we analyzed the production of reactive oxygen species (ros) and the phagosomal/endosomal ph in monocyte-derived dcs and macrophages (m(diameter)s) from healthy donors or patients with chronic granulomatous disease (cgd). as expected  we found that human m(diameter)s acidify their phagosomes more efficiently than human dcs. accordingly  the expression of the vacuolar proton atpase (v-h(+)-atpase) was higher in m(diameter)s than in dcs. phagosomal ros production  however  was also higher in m(diameter)s than in dcs  due to higher levels of gp91phox expression and recruitment to phagosomes. in contrast  in the absence of active nox2  the phagosomal and endosomal ph decreased. both in the presence of a nox2 inhibitor and in dcs derived from patients with cgd  the cross-presentation of 2 model tumor antigens was impaired. we conclude that nox2 activity participates in the regulation of the phagosomal and endosomal ph in human dcs  and is required for efficient antigen cross-presentation.
2071,cortactin regulates cofilin and n-wasp activities to control the stages of invadopodium assembly and maturation,invadopodia are matrix-degrading membrane protrusions in invasive carcinoma cells. the mechanisms regulating invadopodium assembly and maturation are not understood. we have dissected the stages of invadopodium assembly and maturation and show that invadopodia use cortactin phosphorylation as a master switch during these processes. in particular  cortactin phosphorylation was found to regulate cofilin and arp2/3 complex-dependent actin polymerization. cortactin directly binds cofilin and inhibits its severing activity. cortactin phosphorylation is required to release this inhibition so cofilin can sever actin filaments to create barbed ends at invadopodia to support arp2/3-dependent actin polymerization. after barbed end formation  cortactin is dephosphorylated  which blocks cofilin severing activity thereby stabilizing invadopodia. these findings identify novel mechanisms for actin polymerization in the invadopodia of metastatic carcinoma cells and define four distinct stages of invadopodium assembly and maturation consisting of invadopodium precursor formation  actin polymerization  stabilization  and matrix degradation.
2073,in vivo disruption of xenopus u3 snrna affects ribosomal rna processing.,dna oligonucleotide complementary to sequences in the 5' third of u3 snrna were injected into xenopus oocyte nuclei to disrupt endogenous u3 snrna. the effect of this treatment on rrna processing was examined. we found that some toads have a single rrna processing pathway  whereas in other toads  two rrna processing pathways can coexist in a single oocyte. u3 snrna disruption in toads with the single rrna processing pathway caused a reduction in 20s and '32s' pre-rrna. in addition  in toads with two rrna processing pathways  an increase in '36s' pre-rrna of the second pathway is observed. this is the first in vivo demonstration that u3 snrna plays a role in rrna processing. cleavage site #3 is at the boundary of its 1 and 5.8s and links all of the affected rrna intermediates: 20s and '32s' are the products of site #3 cleavage in the first pathway and '36s' is the substrate for cleavage at site #3 in the second pathway. we postulate that u3 snrnp folds pre-rrna into a conformation dictating correct cleavage at processing site #3.
2075,alphavbeta6-fyn signaling promotes oral cancer progression.,we have previously shown that the integrin beta6 is neo-expressed in invasive oral squamous cell carcinoma (scc) and is correlated with oral tumor progression. however  the mechanism by which the integrin beta6 promotes oral tumor progression is not well understood. the purpose of the present study was to determine whether integrin beta6 signaling activates fyn and thus promotes oral squamous cell carcinoma progression. we analyzed the integrin beta6 signaling complex and investigated the function of these signaling molecules in oral scc cells. we found that  upon ligation of the integrin beta6 with fibronectin  beta6 complexed with fyn and activated it. the activation of fyn recruited and activated focal adhesion kinase to this complex. this complex was necessary to activate shc and to couple beta6 signaling to the raf-erk/mapk pathway. this pathway transcriptionally activated the matrix metalloproteinase-3 gene and promoted oral scc cell proliferation and experimental metastasis in vivo. these findings indicate that integrin beta6 signaling activates fyn and thus promotes oral cancer progression.
2077,regulation of serum amyloid a3 (saa3) in mouse colonic epithelium and adipose tissue by the intestinal microbiota,the gut microbiota has been proposed as an environmental factor that affects the development of metabolic and inflammatory diseases in mammals. recent reports indicate that gut bacteria-derived lipopolysaccharide (lps) can initiate obesity and insulin resistance in mice; however  the molecular interactions responsible for microbial regulation of host metabolism and mediators of inflammation have not been studied in detail. hepatic serum amyloid a (saa) proteins are markers and proposed mediators of inflammation that exhibit increased levels in serum of insulin-resistant mice. adipose tissue-derived saa3 displays monocyte chemotactic activity and may play a role in metabolic inflammation associated with obesity and insulin resistance. to investigate a potential mechanistic link between the intestinal microbiota and induction of proinflammatory host factors  we performed molecular analyses of germ-free  conventionally raised and genetically modified myd88-/- mouse models. saa3 expression was determined to be significantly augmented in adipose (9.9+/-1.9-fold; p<0.001) and colonic tissue (7.0+/-2.3-fold; p<0.05) by the presence of intestinal microbes. in the colon  we provided evidence that saa3 is partially regulated through the toll-like receptor (tlr)/myd88/nf-kappab signaling axis. we identified epithelial cells and macrophages as cellular sources of saa3 in the colon and found that colonic epithelial expression of saa3 may be part of an nf-kappab-dependent response to lps from gut bacteria. in vitro experiments showed that lps treatments of both epithelial cells and macrophages induced saa3 expression (27.1+/-2.5-fold vs. 1.6+/-0.1-fold  respectively). our data suggest that lps  and potentially other products of the indigenous gut microbiota  might elevate cytokine expression in tissues and thus exacerbate chronic low-grade inflammation observed in obesity.
2079,biofeedback and relaxation in the treatment of migraine headaches: comparative effectiveness and physiological correlates.,twenty-seven migraine headache patients were divided into three equal groups which received thermal biofeedback  frontalis emg biofeedback  or relaxation training. training was given under "massed" practice conditions (nine sessions per week) and consisted of 18 training sessions and six test-generalisation sessions. while improvements in headaches were observed in all groups  the best improvements took place in the thermal biofeedback group  which had almost complete elimination of migraine attacks by the end of training  and maintained that performance as long as six months after training. examination of the patterns of skin temperature and emg changes in the three groups over the course of training also points to a relationship between skin temperature control and reduction in migraine headache symptomatology  and suggests that this relationship is worthy of further investigation.
2081,basophils and the t helper 2 environment can promote the development of lupus nephritis,in systemic lupus erythematosus (sle)  self-reactive antibodies can target the kidney (lupus nephritis)  leading to functional failure and possible mortality. we report that activation of basophils by autoreactive ige causes their homing to lymph nodes  promoting t helper type 2 (t(h)2) cell differentiation and enhancing the production of self-reactive antibodies that cause lupus-like nephritis in mice lacking the src family protein tyrosine kinase lyn (lyn(-/-) mice). individuals with sle also have elevated serum ige  self-reactive iges and activated basophils that express cd62 ligand (cd62l) and the major histocompatibility complex (mhc) class ii molecule human leukocyte antigen-dr (hla-dr)  parameters that are associated with increased disease activity and active lupus nephritis. basophils were also present in the lymph nodes and spleen of subjects with sle. thus  in lyn(-/-) mice  basophils and ige autoantibodies amplify autoantibody production that leads to lupus nephritis  and in individuals with sle ige autoantibodies and activated basophils are factors associated with disease activity and nephritis.
2083,guanylate binding protein 1 is a novel effector of egfr-driven invasion in glioblastoma,although gbp1 (guanylate binding protein 1) was among the first interferon-inducible proteins identified  its function is still largely unknown. epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) activation by amplification or mutation is one of the most frequent genetic lesions in a variety of human tumors. these include glioblastoma multiforme (gbm)  which is characterized by independent but interrelated features of extensive invasion into normal brain parenchyma  rapid growth  necrosis  and angiogenesis. in this study  we show that egfr activation promoted gbp1 expression in gbm cell lines through a signaling pathway involving src and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase. moreover  we identified yy1 (yin yang 1) as the downstream transcriptional regulator regulating egfr-driven gbp1 expression. gbp1 was required for egfr-mediated mmp1 (matrix metalloproteinase 1) expression and glioma cell invasion in vitro. although deregulation of gbp1 expression did not affect glioma cell proliferation  overexpression of gbp1 enhanced glioma cell invasion through mmp1 induction  which required its c-terminal helical domain and was independent of its gtpase activity. reducing gbp1 levels by rna interference in invasive gbm cells also markedly inhibited their ability to infiltrate the brain parenchyma of mice. gbp1 expression was high and positively correlated with egfr expression in human gbm tumors and cell lines  particularly those of the neural subtype. together  these findings establish gbp1 as a previously unknown link between egfr activity and mmp1 expression and nominate it as a novel potential therapeutic target for inhibiting gbm invasion.
2085,cytokines and anti-cytokine biologicals in autoimmunity: present and future.,the increasing understanding of the role of cytokines in autoimmunity  and the observation that tumour necrosis factor alpha (tnfalpha) is central to the inflammatory and destructive process common to several human autoimmune diseases  has led to a new generation of therapeutics  the tnfalpha blocking agents. in this article  we review the current knowledge of the role of cytokines in autoimmunity as unravelled by studies both in the laboratory and the clinic. in addition  we discuss future prospects of the anti-tnfalpha therapy that may involve combination therapy with other anti-cytokine or anti-t cell biologicals  or the use of small chemicals targeting molecules involved in tnfalpha production such as nf-kappab and p38 mapk. the future developments of anti-tnfalpha and anti-cytokine therapy in general will be interesting.
2087,tead mediates yap-dependent gene induction and growth control.,the yap transcription coactivator has been implicated as an oncogene and is amplified in human cancers. recent studies have established that yap is phosphorylated and inhibited by the hippo tumor suppressor pathway. here we demonstrate that the tead family transcription factors are essential in mediating yap-dependent gene expression. tead is also required for yap-induced cell growth  oncogenic transformation  and epithelial-mesenchymal transition. ctgf is identified as a direct yap target gene important for cell growth. moreover  the functional relationship between yap and tead is conserved in drosophila yki (the yap homolog) and scalloped (the tead homolog). our study reveals tead as a new component in the hippo pathway playing essential roles in mediating biological functions of yap.
2089,p53 mutation in breast cancer. correlation with cell kinetics and cell of origin.,aim several studies have investigated the expression of the cytokeratins (cks)  vimentin  the epithelial growth factor receptor (egfr)  the oestrogen receptor (er)  and the progesterone receptor (pgr)  in breast cancer  but no study has directly compared p53 mutations with these phenotypic and differentiation markers in the same case. the present study was designed to provide some of this information. methods the expression of the p53 and bcl-2 proteins was evaluated by immunohistochemistry in relation to phenotypic characteristics and cellular kinetic parameters (mitotic index and apoptotic index) in 37 cases of ductal carcinoma in situ (dcis) and 27 cases of infiltrating ductal carcinoma (idc) of the breast. in addition  p53 gene mutation was examined by polymerase chain reaction single strand conformation polymorphism analysis (sscp). results thirteen cases (eight dcis and five idc) showed expression of ck8  ck14  ck18  vimentin  and egfr  consistent with a stem cell phenotype  whereas 44 cases (27 dcis and 17 idc) showed expression of ck8 and ck1  weak or negative expression of ck18  but were negative for vimentin and egfr  consistent with a luminal cell phenotype. dcis and idc cases with a stem cell phenotype were er/pgr negative and intermediately or poorly differentiated. in contrast  the cases with luminal cell phenotype were er/pgr positive and well or intermediately differentiated. in addition  intermediately or poorly differentiated cases with a stem cell phenotype showed higher proliferative activity (per cent of mib-l positive cells) than did intermediately or well differentiated cases with a luminal cell phenotype. both dcis and idc cases with a stem cell phenotype were p53 positive and bcl-2 negative by immunohistochemistry. in idc  p53 expression was associated with a reduction of both mitotic index and apoptotic index compared with dcis. most of the tumours showing a more differentiated phenotype (luminal) were p53 negative and bcl-2 positive. in these cases  cell kinetic parameters increased from dcis to idc. these data suggest the existence of subsets of dcis and idc that  because of their phenotypic characteristics  could be derived from subpopulations of normal breast cells having different control mechanisms of cell proliferation and neoplastic progression. conclusions these results are compatible with the hypothesis that the phenotype of the cell of origin constrains both tumour phenotype and the choice of genetic events; however  the occurrence of p53 mutants by chance during neoplastic transformation cannot be excluded.
2091,effect of screening on cervical cancer mortality in england and wales: analysis of trends with an age period cohort model.,the number of women dying from cervical cancer in 1997 was 7% lower than in 1996 and has fallen by over 25% since 1992.1 such rapid change must be at least partly due to cervical screening  although strong cohort effects have caused large fluctuations in cervical mortality in the past.2 we modelled mortality data  taking into account the effects of age and year of birth and looking for trends in time within four age groups to estimate the beneficial effects of cervical screening. we obtained mortality data  in 5 year age bands  from death registrations in england and wales and calculated rates using mid-year population estimates. mortality since 1993 was adjusted upwards by 4% because of changes in classification of cause of death.3  we modelled the data assuming that the age specific mortality is the product of a smoothly varying age effect  birth cohort effect  and age dependent …
2093,the art and design of genetic screens: rna interference,the remarkable gene knockdown technique of rnai has opened exciting new avenues for genetic screens in model organisms and human cells. here we describe the current state of the art for rnai screening  and stress the importance of well-designed assays and of analytical approaches for large-scale screening experiments  from high-throughput screens using simplified homogenous assays to microscopy and whole-animal experiments. like classical genetic screens in the past  the success of large-scale rnai surveys depends on a careful development of phenotypic assays and their interpretation in a relevant biological context.
2095,combined impact of health behaviours and mortality in men and women: the epic-norfolk prospective population study,background there is overwhelming evidence that behavioural factors influence health  but their combined impact on the general population is less well documented. we aimed to quantify the potential combined impact of four health behaviours on mortality in men and women living in the general community. methods and findings we examined the prospective relationship between lifestyle and mortality in a prospective population study of 20 244 men and women aged 45-79 y with no known cardiovascular disease or cancer at baseline survey in 1993-1997  living in the general community in the united kingdom  and followed up to 2006. participants scored one point for each health behaviour: current non-smoking  not physically inactive  moderate alcohol intake (1-14 units a week) and plasma vitamin c >50 mmol/l indicating fruit and vegetable intake of at least five servings a day  for a total score ranging from zero to four. after an average 11 y follow-up  the age-  sex-  body mass-  and social class-adjusted relative risks (95% confidence intervals) for all-cause mortality(1 987 deaths) for men and women who had three  two  one  and zero compared to four health behaviours were respectively  1.39 (1.21-1.60)  1.95 (1.70--2.25)  2.52 (2.13-3.00)  and 4.04 (2.95-5.54) p < 0.001 trend. the relationships were consistent in subgroups stratified by sex  age  body mass index  and social class  and after excluding deaths within 2 y. the trends were strongest for cardiovascular causes. the mortality risk for those with four compared to zero health behaviours was equivalent to being 14 y younger in chronological age. conclusions four health behaviours combined predict a 4-fold difference in total mortality in men and women  with an estimated impact equivalent to 14 y in chronological age.
2097,plant products as antimicrobial agents.,the use of and search for drugs and dietary supplements derived from plants have accelerated in recent years. ethnopharmacologists  botanists  microbiologists  and natural-products chemists are combing the earth for phytochemicals and "leads" which could be developed for treatment of infectious diseases. while 25 to 50% of current pharmaceuticals are derived from plants  none are used as antimicrobials. traditional healers have long used plants to prevent or cure infectious conditions; western medicine is trying to duplicate their successes. plants are rich in a wide variety of secondary metabolites  such as tannins  terpenoids  alkaloids  and flavonoids  which have been found in vitro to have antimicrobial properties. this review attempts to summarize the current status of botanical screening efforts  as well as in vivo studies of their effectiveness and toxicity. the structure and antimicrobial properties of phytochemicals are also addressed. since many of these compounds are currently available as unregulated botanical preparations and their use by the public is increasing rapidly  clinicians need to consider the consequences of patients self-medicating with these preparations.
2099,nuclear hormone receptor nhr-49 controls fat consumption and fatty acid composition in c. elegans,mammalian nuclear hormone receptors (nhrs)  such as liver x receptor  farnesoid x receptor  and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (ppars)  precisely control energy metabolism. consequently  these receptors are important targets for the treatment of metabolic diseases  including diabetes and obesity. a thorough understanding of nhr fat regulatory networks has been limited  however  by a lack of genetically tractable experimental systems. here we show that deletion of the caenorhabditis elegans nhr gene nhr-49 yielded worms with elevated fat content and shortened life span. employing a quantitative rt-pcr screen  we found that nhr-49 influenced the expression of 13 genes involved in energy metabolism. indeed  nhr-49 served as a key regulator of fat usage  modulating pathways that control the consumption of fat and maintain a normal balance of fatty acid saturation. we found that the two phenotypes of the nhr-49 knockout were linked to distinct pathways and were separable: the high-fat phenotype was due to reduced expression of enzymes in fatty acid β-oxidation  and the shortened adult life span resulted from impaired expression of a stearoyl-coa desaturase. despite its sequence relationship with the mammalian hepatocyte nuclear factor 4 receptor  the biological activities of nhr-49 were most similar to those of the mammalian ppars  implying an evolutionarily conserved role for nhrs in modulating fat consumption and composition. our findings in c. elegans provide novel insights into how nhr regulatory networks are coordinated to govern fat metabolism.
2101,control of oocyte meiotic maturation and fertilization.,sexual reproduction depends upon meiosis for the generation of haploid gamete nuclei  which unite after fertilization to form the diploid zygote. the oocytes of most animal species arrest during meiotic prophase  and complete meiosis in response to intercellular signaling in a process called meiotic maturation. oocyte meiotic maturation is defined by the transition between diakinesis and metaphase of meiosis i and is accompanied by nuclear envelope breakdown  rearrangement of the cortical cytoskeleton  and meiotic spindle assembly. thus  the meiotic maturation process is essential for meiosis and prepares the oocyte for fertilization. in c. elegans  the processes of meiotic maturation  ovulation  and fertilization are temporally coupled: sperm utilize the major sperm protein as a hormone to trigger oocyte meiotic maturation  and in turn  the maturing oocyte signals its own ovulation thereby facilitating fertilization. this chapter highlights recent advances in understanding meiotic maturation signaling and gametic interactions required for fertilization.
2103,tissue-resident macrophages self-maintain locally throughout adult life with minimal contribution from circulating monocytes.,despite accumulating evidence suggesting local self-maintenance of tissue macrophages in the steady state  the dogma remains that tissue macrophages derive from monocytes. using parabiosis and fate-mapping approaches  we confirmed that monocytes do not show significant contribution to tissue macrophages in the steady state. similarly  we found that after depletion of lung macrophages  the majority of repopulation occurred by stochastic cellular proliferation in situ in a macrophage colony-stimulating factor (m-csf)- and granulocyte macrophage (gm)-csf-dependent manner but independently of interleukin-4. we also found that after bone marrow transplantation  host macrophages retained the capacity to expand when the development of donor macrophages was compromised. expansion of host macrophages was functional and prevented the development of alveolar proteinosis in mice transplanted with gm-csf-receptor-deficient progenitors. collectively  these results indicate that tissue-resident macrophages and circulating monocytes should be classified as mononuclear phagocyte lineages that are independently maintained in the steady state.
2105,enzymatic targeting of the stroma ablates physical barriers to treatment of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma.,pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas (pdas) are characterized by a robust fibroinflammatory response. we show here that this desmoplastic reaction generates inordinately high interstitial fluid pressures (ifps)  exceeding those previously measured or theorized for solid tumors  and induces vascular collapse  while presenting substantial barriers to perfusion  diffusion  and convection of small molecule therapeutics. we identify hyaluronan  or hyaluronic acid (ha)  as the primary matrix determinant of these barriers and show that systemic administration of an enzymatic agent can ablate stromal ha from autochthonous murine pda  normalize ifp  and re-expand the microvasculature. in combination with the standard chemotherapeutic  gemcitabine  the treatment permanently remodels the tumor microenvironment and consistently achieves objective tumor responses  resulting in a near doubling of overall survival.
2107,cde-1 affects chromosome segregation through uridylation of csr-1-bound sirnas,we have studied the function of a conserved germline-specific nucleotidyltransferase protein  cde-1  in rnai and chromosome segregation in c. elegans. cde-1 localizes specifically to mitotic chromosomes in embryos. this localization requires the rdrp ego-1  which physically interacts with cde-1  and the argonaute protein csr-1. we found that cde-1 is required for the uridylation of csr-1 bound sirnas  and that in the absence of cde-1 these sirnas accumulate to inappropriate levels  accompanied by defects in both meiotic and mitotic chromosome segregation. elevated sirna levels are associated with erroneous gene silencing  most likely through the inappropriate loading of csr-1 sirnas into other argonaute proteins. we propose a model in which cde-1 restricts specific ego-1-generated sirnas to the csr-1 mediated  chromosome associated rnai pathway  thus separating it from other endogenous rnai pathways. the conserved nature of cde-1 suggests that similar sorting mechanisms may operate in other animals  including mammals.
2109,dual roles of plca in listeria monocytogenes pathogenesis.,the plca gene of listeria monocytogenes encodes a secreted phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase c (pl-plc). recent studies have established that transposon mutations within plca result in avirulence for mice and pleiotropic effects when examined in tissue-culture models of infection. genetic analysis reveals that many of the effects of the transposon insertions are due to loss of readthrough transcription from plca into the downstream gene prfa  which encodes an essential transcription factor of numerous l. monocytogenes virulence genes. construction of an in-frame deletion within plca had no effect on expression of prfa thus allowing direct assignment of a role of the pl-plc in pathogenesis. pl-plc was shown to play a significant role in mediating escape of l. monocytogenes from phagosomes of primary murine macrophages. interestingly  this defect manifested itself in vivo in the liver but not in the spleen of infected mice.
2111,a c-type lectin collaborates with a cd45 phosphatase homolog to facilitate west nile virus infection of mosquitoes,west nile virus (wnv) is the most common arthropod-borne flavivirus in the united states; however  the vector ligand(s) that participate in infection are not known. we now show that an aedes aegypti c-type lectin  mosgctl-1  is induced by wnv  interacts with wnv in a calcium-dependent manner  and facilitates infection in vivo and in vitro. a mosquito homolog of human cd45 in a. aegypti  designated mosptp-1  recruits mosgctl-1 to enable viral attachment to cells and to enhance viral entry. in vivo experiments show that mosgctl-1 and mosptp-1 function as part of the same pathway and are critical for wnv infection of mosquitoes. a similar phenomenon was also observed in culex quinquefasciatus  a natural vector of wnv  further demonstrating that these genes participate in wnv infection. during the mosquito blood-feeding process  wnv infection was blocked in vivo with mosgctl-1 antibodies. a molecular understanding of flaviviral-arthropod interactions may lead to strategies to control viral dissemination in nature.
2113,basis for avid homologous dna strand exchange by human rad51 and rpa.,human rad51 (hrad51)  a member of a conserved family of general recombinases  is shown here to have an avid capability to make dna joints between homologous dna molecules and promote highly efficient dna strand exchange of the paired molecules over at least 5.4 kilobase pairs. furthermore  maximal efficiency of homologous dna pairing and strand exchange is strongly dependent on the heterotrimeric single-stranded dna binding factor hrpa and requires conditions that lessen interactions of the homologous duplex with the hrad51-single-stranded dna nucleoprotein filament. the homologous dna pairing and strand exchange system described should be valuable for dissecting the action mechanism of hrad51 and for deciphering its functional interactions with other recombination factors.
2115,microvesicles derived from human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells stimulated by hypoxia promote angiogenesis both in vitro and in vivo.,although mesenchymal stem cells (mscs) have been increasingly trialed to treat a variety of diseases  the underlying mechanisms remain still elusive. in this study  human umbilical cord (uc)-derived mscs were stimulated by hypoxia  and the membrane microvesicles (mvs) in the supernatants were collected by ultracentrifugation  observed under an electron microscope  and the origin was identified with the flow cytometric technique. the results showed that upon hypoxic stimulus  mscs released a large quantity of mvs of ~100 nm in diameter. the mvs were phenotypically similar to the parent mscs  except that the majority of them were negative for the receptor of platelet-derived growth factor. dii-labeling assay revealed that msc-mvs could be internalized into human uc endothelial cells (uc-ecs) within 8 h after they were added into the culture medium. carboxyfluorescein succinimidyl ester-labeling technique and mtt test showed that msc-mvs promoted the proliferation of uc-ecs in a dose-dependent manner. further  mvs could enhance in vitro capillary network formation of uc-ecs in a matrigel matrix. in a rat hindlimb ischemia model  both mscs and msc-mvs were shown to improve significantly the blood flow recovery compared with the control medium (p<0.0001)  as assessed by laser doppler imaging analysis. these data indicate that mv releasing is one of the major mechanisms underlying the effectiveness of msc therapy by promoting angiogenesis.
2117,distinct roles for dna-pk  atm and atr in rpa phosphorylation and checkpoint activation in response to replication stress,dna damage encountered by dna replication forks poses risks of genome destabilization  a precursor to carcinogenesis. damage checkpoint systems cause cell cycle arrest  promote repair and induce programed cell death when damage is severe. checkpoints are critical parts of the dna damage response network that act to suppress cancer. dna damage and perturbation of replication machinery causes replication stress  characterized by accumulation of single-stranded dna bound by replication protein a (rpa)  which triggers activation of ataxia telangiectasia and rad3 related (atr) and phosphorylation of the rpa32  subunit of rpa  leading to chk1 activation and arrest. dna-dependent protein kinase catalytic subunit (dna-pkcs) [a kinase related to ataxia telangiectasia mutated (atm) and atr] has well characterized roles in dna double-strand break repair  but poorly understood roles in replication stress-induced rpa phosphorylation. we show that dna-pkcs mutant cells fail to arrest replication following stress  and mutations in rpa32 phosphorylation sites targeted by dna-pkcs increase the proportion of cells in mitosis  impair atr signaling to chk1 and confer a g2/m arrest defect. inhibition of atr and dna-pk (but not atm)  mimic the defects observed in cells expressing mutant rpa32. cells expressing mutant rpa32 or dna-pkcs show sustained h2ax phosphorylation in response to replication stress that persists in cells entering mitosis  indicating inappropriate mitotic entry with unrepaired damage.
2119,wnt7a signaling promotes dendritic spine growth and synaptic strength through ca²⁺/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase ii.,the balance between excitatory and inhibitory synapses is crucial for normal brain function. wnt proteins stimulate synapse formation by increasing synaptic assembly. however  it is unclear whether wnt signaling differentially regulates the formation of excitatory and inhibitory synapses. here  we demonstrate that wnt7a preferentially stimulates excitatory synapse formation and function. in hippocampal neurons  wnt7a increases the number of excitatory synapses  whereas inhibitory synapses are unaffected. wnt7a or postsynaptic expression of dishevelled-1 (dvl1)  a core wnt signaling component  increases the frequency and amplitude of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mepscs)  but not miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mipscs). wnt7a increases the density and maturity of dendritic spines  whereas wnt7a-dvl1-deficient mice exhibit defects in spine morphogenesis and mossy fiber-ca3 synaptic transmission in the hippocampus. using a postsynaptic reporter for ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase ii (camkii) activity  we demonstrate that wnt7a rapidly activates camkii in spines. importantly  camkii inhibition abolishes the effects of wnt7a on spine growth and excitatory synaptic strength. these data indicate that wnt7a signaling is critical to regulate spine growth and synaptic strength through the local activation of camkii at dendritic spines. therefore  aberrant wnt7a signaling may contribute to neurological disorders in which excitatory signaling is disrupted.
2121,ca2+-permeable ampa receptors regulate growth of human glioblastoma via akt activation.,evidence has been accumulated that glioblastoma cells release and exploit glutamate for proliferation and migration by autocrine or paracrine loops through ca2+-permeable ampa-type glutamate receptors. here  we show that ca2+ signaling mediated by ampa receptor regulates the growth and motility of glioblastoma cells via activation of akt. ca2+ supplied through ca2+-permeable ampa receptor phosphorylated akt at ser-473  thereby facilitating proliferation and mobility. a dominant-negative form of akt inhibited cell proliferation and migration accelerated by overexpression of ca2+-permeable ampa receptor. in contrast  introduction of a constitutively active form of akt rescued tumor cells from apoptosis induced by the conversion of ca2+-permeable ampa receptor to ca2+-impermeable receptors by the delivery of glur2 cdna. therefore  akt functions as downstream effectors for ca2+-signaling mediated by ampa receptor in glioblastoma cells. the activation of the glutamate-ampa receptor-akt pathway may contribute to the high degree of anaplasia and invasive growth of human glioblastoma. this novel pathway might give an alternative therapeutic target.
2123,a local macrophage chemokine network sustains protective tissue-resident memory cd4 t cells,cd8 tissue-resident memory t (trm) cells provide efficient local control of viral infection  but the role of cd4 trm is less clear. here  by using parabiotic mice  we show that a preexisting pool of cd4 trm cells in the genital mucosa was required for full protection from a lethal herpes simplex virus 2 (hsv-2) infection. chemokines secreted by a local network of macrophages maintained vaginal cd4 trm in memory lymphocyte clusters (mlcs)  independently of circulating memory t cells. cd4 trm cells within the mlcs were enriched in clones that expanded in response to hsv-2. our results highlight the need for vaccine strategies that enable establishment of trm cells for protection from a sexually transmitted virus and provide insights as to how such a pool might be established.
2125,no effect of dietary fat on short-term weight gain in mice treated with atypical antipsychotic drugs,rationale:atypical antipsychotic drugs (aad) induce significant weight gain in female c57bl/6j mice. the effect of dietary fat on weight gain and serum lipids in this model is unknown. objectives: test the hypothesis that the obesigenic effects of these drugs are greater in the presence of a high-fat diet. methods:female c57bl/6j mice were treated with atypical antipsychotics for 3 weeks and fed either a low-fat or high-fat diet (4.6 vs 15.6% fat by wt). food intake (fi)  body weight (bw)  body composition  and serum lipids were measured during treatment with optimized doses of olanzapine  quetiapine  and risperidone. energy intake (ei) and feed efficiency (fe) were calculated. group differences in change were analyzed via repeated measures analysis of variance (anova). serum lipid concentrations  ei and fe were compared using two-way anova.results:aad-treated mice gained significantly more weight than controls after 3 weeks (p<0.001). treatment and diet had significant effects on fi and ei over time (p<0.001). aad-treated mice had significantly higher fe than controls (p<0.05); however  there was no significant drug by diet interaction (p=0.65). risperidone low-fat mice gained significantly more absolute fat mass than placebo low-fat mice (p<0.05). all treatment groups  except quetiapine low-fat and olanzapine high-fat  gained significantly more absolute lean mass than placebo controls (p<0.05). cholesterol levels were significantly lower in quetiapine and risperidone than placebo (p<0.05). risperidone low-fat mice had significantly higher triglyceride levels than placebo and risperidone high-fat mice (p<0.05).conclusions:a high-fat diet does not increase aad-induced bw gain in female mice during a 3-week treatment period.
2127,sirt1 deacetylase in sf1 neurons protects against metabolic imbalance.,chronic feeding on high-calorie diets causes obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus (t2dm)  illnesses that affect hundreds of millions. thus  understanding the pathways protecting against diet-induced metabolic imbalance is of paramount medical importance. here  we show that mice lacking sirt1 in steroidogenic factor 1 (sf1) neurons are hypersensitive to dietary obesity owing to maladaptive energy expenditure. also  mutant mice have increased susceptibility to developing dietary t2dm due to insulin resistance in skeletal muscle. mechanistically  these aberrations arise  in part  from impaired metabolic actions of the neuropeptide orexin-a and the hormone leptin. conversely  mice overexpressing sirt1 in sf1 neurons are more resistant to diet-induced obesity and insulin resistance due to increased energy expenditure and enhanced skeletal muscle insulin sensitivity. our results unveil important protective roles of sirt1 in sf1 neurons against dietary metabolic imbalance.
2129,intrinsic genetic characteristics determine tumor-modifying capacity of fibroblasts: matrix metalloproteinase-3 5a/5a genotype enhances breast cancer cell invasion,stromal fibroblasts can contribute to tumor invasion through the release of matrix metalloproteinases (mmps). population studies have suggested that single nucleotide polymorphisms (snps) in mmp genes influence levels of expression and may be associated with breast cancer risk and with disease progression. this study directly examined the impact of mmp snp genotype on the ability of host fibroblasts to promote tumor cell invasion. primary breast fibroblasts were isolated from patients with (n = 13) or without (n = 19) breast cancer  and their ability to promote breast cancer cell invasion was measured in in vitro invasion assays. fibroblast invasion-promoting capacity (ipc) was analyzed in relation to donor type (tumor or non-tumor patient)  mmp-1  mmp-3  and mmp-9 snp genotype and mmp activity using independent samples t test and analysis of variance. all statistical tests were two-sided. tumor-derived fibroblasts promoted higher levels of invasion than normal fibroblasts (p = 0.041). when ipc was related to genotype  higher levels of ipc were generated by tumor fibroblasts with the high-expressing mmp-3 5a/5a genotype compared with the 5a/6a and 6a/6a genotypes (p = 0.05 and 0.07  respectively)  and this was associated with enhanced mmp-3 release. the functional importance of mmp-3 was demonstrated by enhanced invasion in the presence of recombinant mmp-3  whereas reduction occurred in the presence of a specific mmp-3 inhibitor. an inverse relationship was demonstrated between fibroblast ipc and the high-expressing mmp-1 genotype (p = 0.031)  but no relationship was seen with mmp-9 snp status. in contrast  normal fibroblasts showed no variation in ipc in relation to mmp genotype  with mmp-3 5a/5a fibroblasts exhibiting significantly lower levels of ipc than their tumor-derived counterparts (p = 0.04). this study has shown that tumor-derived fibroblasts exhibit higher levels of ipc than normal fibroblasts and that the mmp-3 5a/5a genotype contributes to this through enhanced mmp-3 release. despite a high-expressing genotype  normal fibroblasts do not exhibit higher ipc or enhanced mmp release. this suggests that more complex changes occur in tumor-derived fibroblasts  enabling full expression of the mmp snp genotype and these possibly are epigenetic in nature. the results do suggest that  in women with breast cancer  a high-expressing mmp-3 genotype may promote tumor progression more effectively.
2131,bcr/abl oncogenic kinase promotes unfaithful repair of the reactive oxygen species-dependent dna double-strand breaks.,the oncogenic bcr/abl tyrosine kinase induces constitutive dna damage in philadelphia chromosome (ph)-positive leukemia cells. we find that bcr/abl-induced reactive oxygen species (ross) cause chronic oxidative dna damage resulting in double-strand breaks (dsbs) in s and g(2)/m cell cycle phases. these lesions are repaired by bcr/abl-stimulated homologous recombination repair (hrr) and nonhomologous end-joining (nhej) mechanisms. a high mutation rate is detected in hrr products in bcr/abl-positive cells  but not in the normal counterparts. in addition  large deletions are found in nhej products exclusively in bcr/abl cells. we propose that the following series of events may contribute to genomic instability of ph-positive leukemias: bcr/abl --> ross --> oxidative dna damage --> dsbs in proliferating cells --> unfaithful hrr and nhej repair.
2133,laparoscopic uterosacral nerve ablation for alleviating chronic pelvic pain: a randomized controlled trial.,context chronic pelvic pain is a common condition with a major effect on health-related quality of life  work productivity  and health care use. operative interruption of nerve trunks in the uterosacral ligaments by laparoscopic uterosacral nerve ablation (luna) is a treatment option for patients with chronic pelvic pain. objective to assess the effectiveness of luna in patients with chronic pelvic pain. design  setting  and participants randomized controlled trial of 487 women with chronic pelvic pain lasting longer than 6 months without or with minimal endometriosis  adhesions  or pelvic inflammatory disease  who were recruited to the study by consultant gynecological surgeons from 18 uk hospitals between february 1998 and december 2005. follow-up was conducted by questionnaires mailed at 3 and 6 months and at 1  2  3  and 5 years. intervention bilateral luna or laparoscopy without pelvic denervation (no luna); participants were blinded to the treatment allocation. main outcome measures the primary outcome was pain  which was assessed by a visual analogue scale. data concerning the 3 types of pain (noncyclical pain  dysmenorrhea  and dyspareunia) were analyzed separately as was the worst pain level experienced from any of these 3 types of pain. the secondary outcome was health-related quality of life  which was measured using a generic instrument (euroqol eq-5d and eq-vas). results after a median follow-up of 69 months  there were no significant differences reported on the visual analogue pain scales for the worst pain (mean difference between the luna group and the no luna group  -0.04 cm [95% confidence interval {ci}  -0.33 to 0.25 cm]; p = .80)  noncyclical pain (-0.11 cm [95% ci  -0.50 to 0.29 cm]; p = .60)  dysmenorrhea (-0.09 cm [95% ci  -0.49 to 0.30 cm]; p = .60)  or dyspareunia (0.18 cm [95% ci  -0.22 to 0.62 cm]; p = .40). no differences were observed between the luna group and the no luna group for quality of life. conclusion among women with chronic pelvic pain  luna did not result in improvements in pain  dysmenorrhea  dyspareunia  or quality of life compared with laparoscopy without pelvic denervation. trial registration controlled-trials.com identifier: isrctn41196151.
2135,recommendations on how to ensure the safety and effectiveness of biosimilars in latin america: a point of view,the use of biotechnology-derived medicines has significantly increased in recent decades. although biosimilars undergo rigorous characterization as well as clinical studies to document their safety and effectiveness  they are highly complex molecules and small changes in the purification and production process of a biosimilar can have major implications in its safety and effectiveness profile. in latin america  regulatory authorities have begun to establish well-described and standardized pathways that permit a biosimilar to gain commercial licensure. in order to be certain that a biosimilar reaches its potential in ordinary clinical use  an intensive post-licensing monitoring system must be established since it is the only means to ascertain the true similarity between the original biologic and its biosimilar. pharmacovigilance allows national authorities to determine a drug's performance in the marketplace. an effective tracking and pharmacovigilance system for biological medicines has many steps and processes. to aid policy makers in latin american in addressing the many issues surrounding the establishment of an effective pharmacovigilance system  the americas health foundation convened a group of experts to discuss the topic and develop recommendations for implementation. the group discussed current challenges and gaps in pharmacovigilance in latin america  paying close attention to the major issues associated with traceability and pharmacovigilance of biosimilars following their approval. the recommendations developed should enable countries to accurately document the safety and performance of a biosimilar as experienced by patients under real-life conditions and have a significant impact on the successful implementation of pharmacovigilance of biosimilars throughout the region.
2137,glossary of reference terms for alternative test methods and their validation.,this glossary was developed to provide technical references to support work in the field of the alternatives to animal testing. it was compiled from various existing reference documents coming from different sources and is meant to be a point of reference on alternatives to animal testing. giving the ever-increasing number of alternative test methods and approaches being developed over the last decades  a combination  revision  and harmonization of earlier published collections of terms used in the validation of such methods is required. the need to update previous glossary efforts came from the acknowledgement that new words have emerged with the development of new approaches  while others have become obsolete  and the meaning of some terms has partially changed over time. with this glossary we intend to provide guidance on issues related to the validation of new or updated testing methods consistent with current approaches. moreover  because of new developments and technologies  a glossary needs to be a living  constantly updated document. an internet-based version based on this compilation may be found at http://altweb.jhsph.edu/  allowing the addition of new material.
2139,influence of cyp2d6 polymorphisms on serum levels of tamoxifen metabolites in spanish women with breast cancer,background estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer tumors depend on estrogen signaling for their growth and replication and can be treated by anti-estrogen therapy with tamoxifen. polymorphisms of the cyp2d6 and cyp2c19 genes are associated with an impaired response to tamoxifen. the study objective was to investigate the impact of genetic polymorphisms in cyp2d6 and cyp2c19 on the pharmacokinetics of tamoxifen and its metabolites in spanish women with estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer who were candidates for tamoxifen therapy. methods we studied 90 women with estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer  using the amplichip cyp450 test to determine cyp2d6 and cyp2c19 gene variants. plasma levels of tamoxifen and its metabolites were quantified by high-performance liquid chromatography. results the cyp2d6 phenotype was extensive metabolizer in 80%  intermediate metabolizer in 12.2%  ultra-rapid metabolizer in 2.2%  and poor metabolizer in 5.6% of patients  and the allele frequency was 35.0% for allele (*)1  21.0% for *2  and 18.9% for *4. all poor metabolizers in this series were *4/*4  and their endoxifen and 4-hydroxy tamoxifen levels were 25% lower than those of extensive metabolizers. cyp2c19*2 allele  which has been related to breast cancer outcomes  was detected in 15.6% of the studied alleles. conclusion cyp2d6*4/*4 genotype was inversely associated with 4-hydroxy tamoxifen and endoxifen levels. according to these results  cyp2d6 and cyp2c19 genotyping appears advisable before the prescription of tamoxifen therapy.
2141,the hiv treatment gap: estimates of the financial resources needed versus available for scale-up of antiretroviral therapy in 97 countries from 2015 to 2020,background the world health organization (who) released revised guidelines in 2015 recommending that all people living with hiv  regardless of cd4 count  initiate antiretroviral therapy (art) upon diagnosis. however  few studies have projected the global resources needed for rapid scale-up of art. under the health policy project  we conducted modeling analyses for 97 countries to estimate eligibility for and numbers on art from 2015 to 2020  along with the facility-level financial resources required. we compared the estimated financial requirements to estimated funding available. methods and findings current coverage levels and future need for treatment were based on country-specific epidemiological and demographic data. simulated annual numbers of individuals on treatment were derived from three scenarios: (1) continuation of countries' current policies of eligibility for art  (2) universal adoption of aspects of the who 2013 eligibility guidelines  and (3) expanded eligibility as per the who 2015 guidelines and meeting the joint united nations programme on hiv/aids "90-90-90" art targets. we modeled uncertainty in the annual resource requirements for antiretroviral drugs  laboratory tests  and facility-level personnel and overhead. we estimate that 25.7 (95% ci 25.5  26.0) million adults and 1.57 (95% ci 1.55  1.60) million children could receive art by 2020 if countries maintain current eligibility plans and increase coverage based on historical rates  which may be ambitious. if countries uniformly adopt aspects of the who 2013 guidelines  26.5 (95% ci 26.0 27.0) million adults and 1.53 (95% ci 1.52  1.55) million children could be on art by 2020. under the 90-90-90 scenario  30.4 (95% ci 30.1  30.7) million adults and 1.68 (95% ci 1.63  1.73) million children could receive treatment by 2020. the facility-level financial resources needed for scaling up art in these countries from 2015 to 2020 are estimated to be us$45.8 (95% ci 45.4  46.2) billion under the current scenario  us$48.7 (95% ci 47.8  49.6) billion under the who 2013 scenario  and us$52.5 (95% ci 51.4  53.6) billion under the 90-90-90 scenario. after projecting recent external and domestic funding trends  the estimated 6-y financing gap ranges from us$19.8 billion to us$25.0 billion  depending on the costing scenario and the u.s. president's emergency plan for aids relief contribution level  with the gap for art commodities alone ranging from us$14.0 to us$16.8 billion. the study is limited by excluding above-facility and other costs essential to art service delivery and by the availability and quality of country- and region-specific data. conclusions the projected number of people receiving art across three scenarios suggests that countries are unlikely to meet the 90-90-90 treatment target (81% of people living with hiv on art by 2020) unless they adopt a test-and-offer approach and increase art coverage. our results suggest that future resource needs for art scale-up are smaller than stated elsewhere but still significantly threaten the sustainability of the global hiv response without additional resource mobilization from domestic or innovative financing sources or efficiency gains. as the world moves towards adopting the who 2015 guidelines  advances in technology  including the introduction of lower-cost  highly effective antiretroviral regimens  whose value are assessed here  may prove to be "game changers" that allow more people to be on art with the resources available.
2143,neurite sprouting and synapse deterioration in the aging caenorhabditis elegans nervous system.,caenorhabditis elegans is a powerful model for analysis of the conserved mechanisms that modulate healthy aging. in the aging nematode nervous system  neuronal death and/or detectable loss of processes are not readily apparent  but because dendrite restructuring and loss of synaptic integrity are hypothesized to contribute to human brain decline and dysfunction  we combined fluorescence microscopy and electron microscopy (em) to screen at high resolution for nervous system changes. we report two major components of morphological change in the aging c. elegans nervous system: (1) accumulation of novel outgrowths from specific neurons  and (2) physical decline in synaptic integrity. novel outgrowth phenotypes  including branching from the main dendrite or new growth from somata  appear at a high frequency in some aging neurons  but not all. mitochondria are often associated with age-associated branch sites. lowered insulin signaling confers some maintenance of alm and plm neuron structural integrity into old age  and both daf-16/foxo and heat shock factor transcription factor hsf-1 exert neuroprotective functions. hsf-1 can act cell autonomously in this capacity. em evaluation in synapse-rich regions reveals a striking decline in synaptic vesicle numbers and a diminution of presynaptic density size. interestingly  old animals that maintain locomotory prowess exhibit less synaptic decline than same-age decrepit animals  suggesting that synaptic integrity correlates with locomotory healthspan. our data reveal similarities between the aging c. elegans nervous system and mammalian brain  suggesting conserved neuronal responses to age. dissection of neuronal aging mechanisms in c. elegans may thus influence the development of brain healthspan-extending therapies.
2145,suicide prevention strategies: a systematic review.,context in 2002  an estimated 877 000 lives were lost worldwide through suicide. some developed nations have implemented national suicide prevention plans. although these plans generally propose multiple interventions  their effectiveness is rarely evaluated. objectives to examine evidence for the effectiveness of specific suicide-preventive interventions and to make recommendations for future prevention programs and research. data sources and study selection relevant publications were identified via electronic searches of medline  the cochrane library  and psychinfo databases using multiple search terms related to suicide prevention. studies  published between 1966 and june 2005  included those that evaluated preventative interventions in major domains; education and awareness for the general public and for professionals; screening tools for at-risk individuals; treatment of psychiatric disorders; restricting access to lethal means; and responsible media reporting of suicide. data extraction data were extracted on primary outcomes of interest: suicidal behavior (completion  attempt  ideation)  intermediary or secondary outcomes (treatment seeking  identification of at-risk individuals  antidepressant prescription/use rates  referrals)  or both. experts from 15 countries reviewed all studies. included articles were those that reported on completed and attempted suicide and suicidal ideation; or  where applicable  intermediate outcomes  including help-seeking behavior  identification of at-risk individuals  entry into treatment  and antidepressant prescription rates. we included 3 major types of studies for which the research question was clearly defined: systematic reviews and meta-analyses (n = 10); quantitative studies  either randomized controlled trials (n = 18) or cohort studies (n = 24); and ecological  or population- based studies (n = 41). heterogeneity of study populations and methodology did not permit formal meta-analysis; thus  a narrative synthesis is presented. data synthesis education of physicians and restricting access to lethal means were found to prevent suicide. other methods including public education  screening programs  and media education need more testing. conclusions physician education in depression recognition and treatment and restricting access to lethal methods reduce suicide rates. other interventions need more evidence of efficacy. ascertaining which components of suicide prevention programs are effective in reducing rates of suicide and suicide attempt is essential in order to optimize use of limited resources.
2147,il-18 induction of osteopontin mediates cardiac fibrosis and diastolic dysfunction in mice.,osteopontin (opn)  a key component of the extracellular matrix  is associated with the fibrotic process during tissue remodeling. opn and the cytokine interleukin (il)-18 have been shown to be overexpressed in an array of human cardiac pathologies. in the present study  we determined the role of il-18 in the regulation of cardiac opn expression and the subsequent interstitial fibrosis and diastolic dysfunction. we demonstrated parallel increases in il-18  opn expression  and interstitial fibrosis in murine models of left ventricular pressure and volume overload. exogenous recombinant (r)il-18 administered for 2 wk increased cardiac opn expression  interstitial fibrosis  and diastolic dysfunction. stimulation of the t helper (th)1 lymphocyte phenotype with a selective toll-like receptor (tlr)9 agonist induced cardiac il-18 and opn expression  which was associated with increased cardiac fibrillar collagen concentrations and interstitial fibrosis resulting in diastolic dysfunction. ril-18 induced opn expression and protein levels in primary of cardiac fibroblast cultures. conditioned media from tlr9-stimulated t lymphocyte cultures induced il-18 and opn expression in cardiac fibroblasts  while blockade of the il-18 receptor with a neutralizing antibody abolished the increase in opn expression. furthermore  a mutation in the transcriptional factor interferon regulatory factor (irf)1 or irf1 small interfering rna (sirna) resulted in the decreased expression of il-18 and opn in cardiac fibroblasts. with pressure overload  irf1-mutant mice showed downregulation of il-18 and opn expression in cardiac tissue  reduced cardiac fibrotic development  and increased left ventricular function compared with wild type. these results provide direct evidence that the induction of il-18 regulates opn-mediated cardiac fibrosis and diastolic dysfunction.
2149,rsem: accurate transcript quantification from rna-seq data with or without a reference genome,background rna-seq is revolutionizing the way transcript abundances are measured. a key challenge in transcript quantification from rna-seq data is the handling of reads that map to multiple genes or isoforms. this issue is particularly important for quantification with de novo transcriptome assemblies in the absence of sequenced genomes  as it is difficult to determine which transcripts are isoforms of the same gene. a second significant issue is the design of rna-seq experiments  in terms of the number of reads  read length  and whether reads come from one or both ends of cdna fragments. results we present rsem  an user-friendly software package for quantifying gene and isoform abundances from single-end or paired-end rna-seq data. rsem outputs abundance estimates  95% credibility intervals  and visualization files and can also simulate rna-seq data. in contrast to other existing tools  the software does not require a reference genome. thus  in combination with a de novo transcriptome assembler  rsem enables accurate transcript quantification for species without sequenced genomes. on simulated and real data sets  rsem has superior or comparable performance to quantification methods that rely on a reference genome. taking advantage of rsem's ability to effectively use ambiguously-mapping reads  we show that accurate gene-level abundance estimates are best obtained with large numbers of short single-end reads. on the other hand  estimates of the relative frequencies of isoforms within single genes may be improved through the use of paired-end reads  depending on the number of possible splice forms for each gene. conclusions rsem is an accurate and user-friendly software tool for quantifying transcript abundances from rna-seq data. as it does not rely on the existence of a reference genome  it is particularly useful for quantification with de novo transcriptome assemblies. in addition  rsem has enabled valuable guidance for cost-efficient design of quantification experiments with rna-seq  which is currently relatively expensive.
2151,funnel trap for the capture of phlebotomine sand flies (diptera: psychodidae) from tree holes.,a funnel trap that fitted over holes leading into hollow trees was used to capture adult phlebotomine sand flies  lutzomyia shannoni dyar  on ossabaw island  chatham county  ga. these insects rested in hollow trees during the day and were collected by funnel traps as they egressed from the tree holes at night. the trap is lightweight  durable  inexpensive  waterproof  and selective. using this trap  greater than 100 healthy l. shannoni ++were captured per night by a single investigator during july and august 1988 when adult flies were abundant on the island.
2153,survival analysis: time-dependent effects and time-varying risk factors.,in traditional kaplan-meier or cox regression analysis  usually a risk factor measured at baseline is related to mortality thereafter. during follow-up  however  things may change: either the effect of a fixed baseline risk factor may vary over time  resulting in a weakening or strengthening of associations over time  or the risk factor itself may vary over time. in this paper  short-term versus long-term effects (so-called time-dependent effects) of a fixed baseline risk factor are addressed. an example is presented showing that underweight is a strong risk factor for mortality in dialysis patients  especially in the short run. in contrast  overweight is a risk factor for mortality  which is stronger in the long run than in the short run. in addition  the analysis of how time-varying risk factors (so-called time-dependent risk factors) are related to mortality is demonstrated by paying attention to the pitfall of adjusting for sequelae. the proper analysis of effects over time should be driven by a clear research question. both kinds of research questions  that is those of time-dependent effects as well those of time-dependent risk factors  can be analyzed with time-dependent cox regression analysis. it will be shown that using time-dependent risk factors usually implies focusing on short-term effects only.
2155,use of gene-expression profiling to identify prognostic subclasses in adult acute myeloid leukemia.,background in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (aml)  the presence or absence of recurrent cytogenetic aberrations is used to identify the appropriate therapy. however  the current classification system does not fully reflect the molecular heterogeneity of the disease  and treatment stratification is difficult  especially for patients with intermediate-risk aml with a normal karyotype. methods we used complementary-dna microarrays to determine the levels of gene expression in peripheral-blood samples or bone marrow samples from 116 adults with aml (including 45 with a normal karyotype). we used unsupervised hierarchical clustering analysis to identify molecular subgroups with distinct gene-expression signatures. using a training set of samples from 59 patients  we applied a novel supervised learning algorithm to devise a gene-expression-based clinical-outcome predictor  which we then tested using an independent validation group comprising the 57 remaining patients. results unsupervised analysis identified new molecular subtypes of aml  including two prognostically relevant subgroups in aml with a normal karyotype. using the supervised learning algorithm  we constructed an optimal 133-gene clinical-outcome predictor  which accurately predicted overall survival among patients in the independent validation group (p=0.006)  including the subgroup of patients with aml with a normal karyotype (p=0.046). in multivariate analysis  the gene-expression predictor was a strong independent prognostic factor (odds ratio  8.8; 95 percent confidence interval  2.6 to 29.3; p<0.001). conclusions the use of gene-expression profiling improves the molecular classification of adult aml.
2157,gene targeting using zinc finger nucleases,the ability to achieve site-specific manipulation of the mammalian genome has widespread implications for basic and applied research. gene targeting is a process in which a dna molecule introduced into a cell replaces the corresponding chromosomal segment by homologous recombination  and thus presents a precise way to manipulate the genome. in the past  the application of gene targeting to mammalian cells has been limited by its low efficiency. zinc finger nucleases (zfns) show promise in improving the efficiency of gene targeting by introducing dna double-strand breaks in target genes  which then stimulate the cell's endogenous homologous recombination machinery. recent results have shown that zfns can be used to create targeting frequencies of up to 20% in a human disease-causing gene. future work will be needed to translate these in vitro findings to in vivo applications and to determine whether zinc finger nucleases create undesired genomic instability.
2159,pain attacks in non-complicated and complicated gallstone disease have a characteristic pattern and are accompanied by dyspepsia in most patients: the results of a prospective study.,objective the cardinal indication for surgical treatment of gallstones is pain attacks. however  following cholecystectomy  20% of patients remain symptomatic. it is unclear to what extent post-cholecystectomy symptoms can be ascribed to persistence of preoperative symptoms or to new pathology. the pain and digestive pattern in gallstone patients has not been defined in a recent setting with ultrasonography as the diagnostic method. the aim of this study was to characterize a pain pattern that is typical for gallstone disease and to describe the extent of associated dyspepsia. material and methods a total of 220 patients with symptomatic gallstone disease including complicated disease (acute cholecystitis and common bile duct stones) were interviewed using detailed questionnaires to disclose pain patterns and symptoms of indigestion. results all patients had pain in the right upper quadrant (ruq) including the upper midline epigastrium. the pain was localized to the right subcostal area in 20% and to the upper epigastrium in 14%  and in the rest (66%) it was more evenly distributed. an area of maximal pain could be defined in 90%. maximal pain was located under the costal arch in 51% of patients and in the epigastrium in 41%  but in 3% behind the sternum and in 5% in the back. the pain was referred to the back in 63% of the patients. the mean visual analogue scale (vas) score was very high: 90 mm on a 0-100 scale. a pattern of incipient or low-grade warning pain with a subsequent relatively steady state until subsiding in the same fashion was present in 90% of the patients. an urge to walk around was experienced by 71%. pain attacks usually occurred in the late evening or at night (77%)  with 85% of the attacks lasting for more than one hour and almost never less than half an hour. sixty-six percent of the patients were intolerant to at least one kind of food  but only 48% to fatty foods. symptoms of functional indigestion (gastroesophageal reflux  dyspepsia or irritable bowel symptoms) were seen in the vast majority in association with attacks. conclusions gallstone-associated pain follows a certain pattern in the majority of patients. the pain is located in a defined area with a point of maximum intensity  is usually referred  and occurs mainly at night with duration of more than one hour. the majority of patients experience functional indigestion  mainly of the reflux type or dyspepsia.
2161,in situ regulation of dc subsets and t cells mediates tumor regression in mice.,vaccines are largely ineffective for patients with established cancer  as advanced disease requires potent and sustained activation of cd8(+) cytotoxic t lymphocytes (ctls) to kill tumor cells and clear the disease. recent studies have found that subsets of dendritic cells (dcs) specialize in antigen cross-presentation and in the production of cytokines  which regulate both ctls and t regulatory (treg) cells that shut down effector t cell responses. here  we addressed the hypothesis that coordinated regulation of a dc network  and plasmacytoid dcs (pdcs) and cd8(+) dcs in particular  could enhance host immunity in mice. we used functionalized biomaterials incorporating various combinations of an inflammatory cytokine  immune danger signal  and tumor lysates to control the activation and localization of host dc populations in situ. the numbers of pdcs and cd8(+) dcs  and the endogenous production of interleukin-12  all correlated strongly with the magnitude of protective antitumor immunity and the generation of potent cd8(+) ctls. vaccination by this method maintained local and systemic ctl responses for extended periods while inhibiting foxp3 treg activity during antigen clearance  resulting in complete regression of distant and established melanoma tumors. the efficacy of this vaccine as a monotherapy against large invasive tumors may be a result of the local activity of pdcs and cd8(+) dcs induced by persistent danger and antigen signaling at the vaccine site. these results indicate that a critical pattern of dc subsets correlates with the evolution of therapeutic antitumor responses and provide a template for future vaccine design.
2163,interaction between oct3/4 and cdx2 determines trophectoderm differentiation,trophectoderm (te)  the first differentiated cell lineage of mammalian embryogenesis  forms the placenta  a structure unique to mammalian development. the differentiation of te is a hallmark event in early mammalian development  but molecular mechanisms underlying this first differentiation event remain obscure. embryonic stem (es) cells can be induced to differentiate into the te lineage by forced repression of the pou-family transcription factor  oct3/4. we show here that this event can be mimicked by overexpression of caudal-related homeobox 2 (cdx2)  which is sufficient to generate proper trophoblast stem (ts) cells. cdx2 is dispensable for trophectoderm differentiation induced by oct3/4 repression but essential for ts cell self-renewal. in preimplantation embryos  cdx2 is initially coexpressed with oct3/4 and they form a complex for the reciprocal repression of their target genes in es cells. this suggests that reciprocal inhibition between lineage-specific transcription factors might be involved in the first differentiation event of mammalian development.
2165,temporal regulation of topoisomerase iv activity in e. coli.,we isolated a mutant allele of dnax  encoding the tau and gamma subunits of the dna polymerase iii holoenzyme  that causes extreme cell filamentation but does not affect either cell growth or dna replication. this phenotype results from a defect in daughter chromosome decatenation during rapid growth. in these cells  parc  one subunit of topoisomerase iv  no longer associated with the replication factory  as occurs in wild-type cells  and was instead distributed uniformly on the nucleoid; the distribution of pare  the other subunit of topoisomerase iv  was unaffected. in addition  the majority of topoisomerase iv activity in synchronized cell populations was restricted to late in the cell cycle  when replication was essentially complete. these observations suggest that topoisomerase iv activity in vivo might be dependent on release of parc from the replication factory.
2167,crtc2 (torc2) contributes to the transcriptional response to fasting in the liver but is not required for the maintenance of glucose homeostasis.,the liver contributes to glucose homeostasis by promoting either storage or production of glucose  depending on the physiological state. the camp response element-binding protein (creb) is a principal regulator of genes involved in coordinating the hepatic response to fasting  but its mechanism of gene activation remains controversial. we derived crtc2 (creb-regulated transcription coactivator 2  previously torc2)-deficient mice to assess the contribution of this cofactor to hepatic glucose metabolism in vivo. crtc2 mutant hepatocytes showed reduced glucose production in response to glucagon  which correlated with decreased creb binding to several gluconeogenic genes. however  despite attenuated expression of creb target genes  including pepck  g6pase  and pgc-1alpha  no hypoglycemia was observed in mutant mice. collectively  these results provide genetic evidence supporting a role for crtc2 in the transcriptional response to fasting  but indicate only a limited contribution of this cofactor to the maintenance of glucose homeostasis.
2169,fbw7 ubiquitin ligase: a tumour suppressor at the crossroads of cell division  growth and differentiation,fbw7 (f-box and wd repeat domain-containing 7) is the substrate recognition component of an evolutionary conserved scf (complex of skp1  cul1 and f-box protein)-type ubiquitin ligase. scffbw7 degrades several proto-oncogenes that function in cellular growth and division pathways  including myc  cyclin e  notch and jun. fbw7 is also a tumour suppressor  the regulatory network of which is perturbed in many human malignancies. numerous cancer-associated mutations in fbw7 and its substrates have been identified  and loss of fbw7 function causes chromosomal instability and tumorigenesis. this review focuses on structural and functional aspects of fbw7 and its role in the development of cancer.
2171,defective mast cell effector functions in mice lacking the cracm1 pore subunit of store-operated calcium release–activated calcium channels,cracm1 (also called orai1) constitutes the pore subunit of store-operated calcium release–activated calcium channels. a point mutation in the gene encoding cracm1 is associated with severe combined immunodeficiency disease in humans. here we generated cracm1-deficient mice in which β-galactosidase activity 'reported' cracm1 expression. cracm1-deficient mice were smaller in size. mast cells derived from cracm1-deficient mice showed grossly defective degranulation and cytokine secretion  and the allergic reactions elicited in vivo were inhibited in cracm1-deficient mice. we detected robust cracm1 expression in skeletal muscles and some regions of the brain  heart and kidney but not in the lymphoid regions of thymus and spleen. in contrast  we found cracm2 expression to be much higher in mouse t cells. in agreement with those findings  the store-operated calcium influx and development and proliferation of cracm1-deficient t cells was unaffected. thus  cracm1 is crucial in mouse mast cell effector function  but mouse t cell calcium release–activated calcium channels are functional in the absence of cracm1.
2173,integration-free induced pluripotent stem cells model genetic and neural developmental features of down syndrome etiology.,down syndrome (ds) is the most frequent cause of human congenital mental retardation. cognitive deficits in ds result from perturbations of normal cellular processes both during development and in adult tissues  but the mechanisms underlying ds etiology remain poorly understood. to assess the ability of induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs) to model ds phenotypes  as a prototypical complex human disease  we generated bona fide ds and wild-type (wt) nonviral ipscs by episomal reprogramming. ds ipscs selectively overexpressed chromosome 21 genes  consistent with gene dosage  which was associated with deregulation of thousands of genes throughout the genome. ds and wt ipscs were neurally converted at >95% efficiency and had remarkably similar lineage potency  differentiation kinetics  proliferation  and axon extension at early time points. however  at later time points ds cultures showed a twofold bias toward glial lineages. moreover  ds neural cultures were up to two times more sensitive to oxidative stress-induced apoptosis  and this could be prevented by the antioxidant n-acetylcysteine. our results reveal a striking complexity in the genetic alterations caused by trisomy 21 that are likely to underlie ds developmental phenotypes  and indicate a central role for defective early glial development in establishing developmental defects in ds brains. furthermore  oxidative stress sensitivity is likely to contribute to the accelerated neurodegeneration seen in ds  and we provide proof of concept for screening corrective therapeutics using ds ipscs and their derivatives. nonviral ds ipscs can therefore model features of complex human disease in vitro and provide a renewable and ethically unencumbered discovery platform.
2175,vitamin d insufficiency and the blunted pth response in established osteoporosis: the role of magnesium deficiency,vitamin d insufficiency is common  however within individuals  not all manifest the biochemical effects of pth excess. this further extends to patients with established osteoporosis. the mechanism underlying the blunted pth response is unclear but may be related to magnesium (mg) deficiency. the aims of this study were to compare in patients with established osteoporosis and differing degrees of vitamin d and pth status : (1) the presence of mg deficiency using the standard mg loading test (2) evaluate the effects of mg loading on the calcium-pth endocrine axis (3) determine the effects of oral  short term mg supplementation on the calcium-pth endocrine axis and bone turnover. 30 patients (10 women in 3 groups) were evaluated prospectively measuring calcium  pth  mg retention (mg loading test)  dietary nutrient intake (calcium  vitamin d  mg) and bone turnover markers (serum ctx & p1cp). multivariate analysis controlling for potential confounding baseline variable was undertaken for the measured outcomes. all subjects  within the low vitamin d and low pth group following the magnesium loading test had evidence of mg depletion [mean(sd) retention 70.3%(12.5)] and showed an increase in calcium 0.06(0.01) mmol/l [95% ci 0.03  0.09  p=0.007]  together with a rise in pth 13.3 ng/l (4.5) [95% ci 3.2  23.4  p=0.016] compared to baseline. following oral supplementation bone turnover increased: ctx 0.16 (0.06) mcg/l [95%ci 0.01  0.32 p=0.047]; p1cp 13.1 (5.7) mcg/l [95% ci 0.29  26.6 p=0.049]. in subjects with a low vitamin d and raised pth mean retention was 55.9%(14.8) and in the vitamin replete group 36.1%(14.4)  with little change in both acute markers of calcium homeostasis and bone turnover markers following both the loading test and oral supplementation. this study confirms that in patients with established osteoporosis  there is also a distinct group with a low vitamin d and a blunted pth level and that mg deficiency (as measured by the mg loading test) is an important contributing factor.
2177,phosphoinositide 3-kinase signalling pathways in tumor progression  invasion and angiogenesis.,aims and background the pi3 kinase signalling pathway is now accepted as being at least as important as the ras-map kinase pathway in cell survival and proliferation  and hence its potential role in cancer is of great interest. the purpose of this review is briefly to examine evidence for an involvement of pi3k in human cancers  discuss the mechanisms by which its activation promotes tumor progression  and consider its utility as a novel target for anticancer therapy. methods and study design a medline review of recent literature concerning the role of pi3 kinase in tumor progression--mechanisms of action and clinical implications. results evidence is presented that misregulation of the pi3 kinase pathway is a feature of many common cancers  either by loss of the suppressor protein pten  or by constitutive activation of pi3 kinase isoforms or downstream elements such as akt and mtor. this activation potentiates not only cell survival and proliferation  but also cytoskeletal deformability and motility; key elements in tumor invasion. in addition the pi3k pathway is implicated in many aspects of angiogenesis  including upregulation of angiogenic cytokines due to tumor hypoxia or oncogene activation and endothelial cell responses to them. these cytokines signal though receptors such as vegf-r  fgf-r and tie-2 and potentiate processes essential for neoangiogenesis including cell proliferation  migration  differentiation into tubules and "invasion" of these capillary sprouts into extracellular matrix (ecm). conclusions a more complete understanding of the role of the pi3 kinase pathway in cancer will lead the way to the development of more potent and selective inhibitors which should be a useful adjunct to conventional therapies  potentially interfering with tumor progression at several pivotal points; in particular cell survival  invasion and angiogenesis.
2179,early aging and age-related pathologies in mice deficient in bmal1  the core componentof the circadian clock.,mice deficient in the circadian transcription factor bmal1 (brain and muscle arnt-like protein) have impaired circadian behavior and demonstrate loss of rhythmicity in the expression of target genes. here we report that bmal1(-/-) mice have reduced lifespans and display various symptoms of premature aging including sarcopenia  cataracts  less subcutaneous fat  organ shrinkage  and others. the early aging phenotype correlates with increased levels of reactive oxygen species in some tissues of the bmal1(-/- )animals. these findings  together with data on clock/bmal1-dependent control of stress responses  may provide a mechanistic explanation for the early onset of age-related pathologies in the absence of bmal1.
2181,genetic variants at newly identified lipid loci are associated with coronary heart disease in a chinese han population,background recent genome-wide association studies (gwas) have mapped several novel loci influencing blood lipid levels in caucasians. we sought to explore whether the genetic variants at newly identified lipid-associated loci were associated with chd susceptibility in a chinese han population. methodology/principal findings we conducted a two-stage case-control study in a chinese han population. the first-stage  consisting of 1 376 chd cases and 1 376 sex and age- frequency matched controls  examined 5 novel lipid-associated single-nucleotide polymorphisms (snps) identified from gwas among caucasians in relation to chd risk in chinese. we then validated significant snps in the second-stage  consisting of 1 269 cases and 2 745 controls. we also tested associations between snps within the five novel loci and blood lipid levels in 4 121 controls. we identified two novel snps (rs599839 in celsr2-psrc1-sort1 and rs16996148 in ncan-cilp2) that were significantly associated with reduced chd risk in chinese (odds ratios (95% confidence intervals) in the dominant model 0.76 (0.61-0.90; p = 0.001)  0.67 (0.57-0.77; p = 3.4×10(-8))  respectively). multiple linear regression analyses using dominant model showed that rs599839 was significantly associated with decreased ldl levels (p = 0.022) and rs16996148 was significantly associated with increased ldl and hdl levels (p = 2.9×10(-4) and 0.001  respectively). conclusions/significance we identified two novel snps (rs599839 and rs16996148) at newly identified lipid-associated loci that were significantly associated with chd susceptibility in a chinese han population.
2183,isolated liver perfusion for non-resectable liver tumours: a review.,many treatments have been proposed for non-resectable primary or secondary hepatic cancer but the results have generally been disappointing. isolated hepatic perfusion (ihp) was first attempted four decades ago but it gained acceptance only recently  after spectacular tumour responses were obtained by isolated limb perfusion with melphalan and tumour necrosis factor (tnf) for melanomas and sarcomas. surgical isolation of the liver is a technically demanding operation that allows the safe administration of high doses of chemotherapeutics and tnf. percutaneous techniques using balloon occlusion catheters are simpler but result in higher leakage rates from the perfusion circuit into the systemic circulation. several phase i-ii trials indicate that ihp can yield high tumour response rates  even when there is resistance to systemic chemotherapy. however  no significant advantage in overall survival has been demonstrated so far. ihp offers unique pharmacokinetic advantages for locoregional chemotherapy and biotherapy. it might also allow gene therapy with limited systemic exposure and toxicity. at present  ihp nevertheless remains an experimental treatment modality which should therefore be used in controlled trials only.
2185,high ctla-4 expression on th17 cells results in increased sensitivity to ctla-4 coinhibition and resistance to belatacept.,the cd28/cytotoxic t-lymphocyte antigen 4 (ctla-4)blocker belatacept selectively inhibits alloreactive t cell responses but is associated with a high incidence of acute rejection following renal transplantation which led us to investigate the etiology of belatacept–resistant graft rejection. t cells can differentiate into functionally distinct subsets of memory t cellsthat collectively enable protection against diverse classes of pathogens and can cross-react with allogeneicantigen and mediate graft rejection. t helper 17(th17) cells are a pro-inflammatory cd4+ lineage that provides immunity to pathogens and are pathogenic in autoimmune disease. we found that t helper 1 (th1)and th17 memory compartments contained a similar frequency of divided cells following allogeneic stimulation. compared to th1 cells  th17 memory cells expressed significantly higher levels of the coinhibitory molecule ctla-4. stimulation in the presence of belatacept inhibited th1 responses but augmented th17 cells due to greater sensitivity to coinhibition by ctla-4. th17 cells from renal transplant recipients were resistant to ex vivo cd28/ctla-4 blockade with belatacept  and an elevated frequency of th17 memory cells was associated with acute rejection during belatacept therapy. these data highlight important differences in costimulatory and coinhibitory requirements of cd4+ memory subsets  and demonstrate that the heterogeneity of pathogen-derived memory has implications for immunomodulation strategies.
2187,gq protein alpha subunits galphaq and galpha11 are localized at postsynaptic extra-junctional membrane of cerebellar purkinje cells and hippocampal pyramidal cells.,following cell surface receptor activation  the alpha subunit of the gq subclass of gtp-binding proteins activates the phosphoinositide signalling pathway. here we examined the expression and localization of gq protein alpha subunits in the adult mouse brain by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. of the four members of the gq protein alpha subunits  galphaq and galpha11 were transcribed predominantly in the brain. the highest transcriptional level of galphaq was observed in cerebellar purkinje cells (pcs) and hippocampal pyramidal cells  while that of galpha11 was noted in hippocampal pyramidal cells. antibody against the c-terminal peptide common to galphaq and galpha11 strongly labelled the cerebellar molecular layer and hippocampal neuropil layers. in these regions  immunogold preferentially labelled the cytoplasmic face of postsynaptic cell membrane of pcs and pyramidal cells. immunoparticles were distributed along the extra-junctional cell membrane of spines  dendrites and somata  but were almost excluded from the junctional membrane. by double immunofluorescence  galphaq/galpha11 was extensively colocalized with metabotropic glutamate receptor mglur1alpha in dendritic spines of pcs and with mglur5 in those of hippocampal pyramidal cells. together with concentrated localization of mglur1alpha and mglur5 in a peri-junctional annulus on pc and pyramidal cell synapses (baude et al. 1993  neuron  11  771-787; luján et al. 1996  eur. j. neurosci.  8  1488-1500)  the present molecular-anatomical findings suggest that peri-junctional stimulation of the group i metabotropic glutamate receptors is mediated by galphaq and/or galpha11  leading to the activation of the intracellular effector  phospholipase cbeta.
2189,preventing obesity in children and adolescents.,in this review  we address the natural history of obesity in children  the most promising family- and school-based approaches to the prevention of obesity  and the barriers and opportunities associated with secondary prevention. in childhood  the most important periods of risk appear to be the periods of adiposity rebound and adolescence. caution regarding the period of adiposity rebound is still warranted  because it is not yet clear that early rebound is attributable to changes in body fat. families and schools represent the most important foci for preventive efforts in children and adolescents. one productive approach is to proceed from an examination of factors that affect energy balance to the identification of more proximal influences on those factors. this approach may help to narrow the strategies necessary to prevent or treat childhood obesity. for example  television viewing affects both energy intake and energy expenditure  and therefore represents a logical target for interventions. anticipatory guidance by pediatricians may offer an effective mechanism by which to change parental attitudes and practices regarding television viewing. a similar process is used to emphasize the potential influence of school-based interventions directed at changes in food choices and sedentary behavior.
2191,results of screening for intracranial aneurysms in patients with coarctation of the aorta.,background and purpose ias are found in 2.3% of adults; the mean age at detection is 52 years. prevalence is <0.5% in young adults. early studies suggest that 10%-50% of patients with aortic coarctation have ias. screening recommendations are variable. we sought to examine the prevalence of ias through screening with mra. materials and methods consecutive patients older than 16 years of age with coarctation undergoing brain mra between may 1999 and october 2007 were included. mra was performed by using a 1.5t scanner with a 3d time-of-flight protocol; simultaneous mr imaging was performed of the heart and aorta. cerebral mras were double-reported by a neuroradiologist. statistics are described as mean ± sd and median ± range. continuous variables were compared by using student t tests and mann-whitney u tests (categoric variables  by using the fisher exact test). results one hundred seventeen mras were double-reported. the median age was 29 ± 11 years (range  16-59 years). ias were found in 12 patients (10.3%). the mean diameter of ias was 3.9 mm (range  2.0-8.0 mm). patients with aneurysms were older (median  37 years; range  16-50 years) than those without (median  23 years; range  16-59 years; z = -2.01  p = .04). hypertension was more common in those with ias (ia 83% versus no ia 43%  p = .01). there was no association between ascending aortopathy  bicuspid aortic valves  and ias. conclusions patients with coarctation have a higher prevalence of ias  occurring at an earlier age than in population studies. whether routine screening is appropriate for this group of patients is unclear. hypertension is likely to be an important pathophysiologic factor.
2193,genetic and epigenetic mutations affect the dna binding capability of human zfp57 in transient neonatal diabetes type 1,in the mouse  zfp57 contains three classical cys2his2 zinc finger domains (zf) and recognizes the methylated tgc(met)cgc target sequence using the first and the second zfs. in this study  we demonstrate that the human zfp57 (hzfp57) containing six cys2his2 zfs  binds the same methylated sequence through the third and the fourth zfs  and identify the aminoacids critical for dna interaction. in addition  we present evidences indicating that hzfp57 mutations and hypomethylation of the tndm1 icr both associated with transient neonatal diabetes mellitus type 1 result in loss of hzfp57 binding to the tndm1 locus  likely causing plagl1 activation.
2195,albumin and furosemide therapy in hypoproteinemic patients with acute lung injury.,objective hypoproteinemia  fluid retention  and weight gain are associated with development of acute lung injury and mortality in critically ill patients  without proof of cause and effect. we designed a clinical trial to determine whether diuresis and colloid replacement in hypoproteinemic patients with acute lung injury would improve pulmonary physiology. design prospective  randomized  double-blind  placebo-controlled trial. setting all adult intensive care units from two university hospitals. patients thirty-seven mechanically-ventilated patients with acute lung injury and serum total protein </=5.0 g/dl.   interventions five-day protocolized regimen of 25 g of human serum albumin every 8 hrs with continuous infusion furosemide  or dual placebo  targeted to diuresis  weight loss  and serum total protein. measurements and main results measured outcomes included change in weight  serum total protein  fluid balance  hemodynamics  respiratory system compliance  and oxygenation. baseline characteristics were similar between groups (treatment  n = 19; control  n = 18)  with trauma being the major cause of acute lung injury. diuresis and weight loss over 5 days (5.3 kg more in the treatment group  p =.04) was accompanied by improvements in the pao2/fio2 ratio in the treatment group within 24 hrs (from 171 to 236  p =.02). respiratory mechanics were unchanged. mean arterial pressure increased from 80 to 88 mm hg (p =.10)  and heart rate decreased from 110 to 95 beats/min (p =.008) over time in the treatment group. no difference in mortality was observed  with favorable trends in measures of intensive care. conclusions albumin and furosemide therapy improves fluid balance  oxygenation  and hemodynamics in hypoproteinemic patients with acute lung injury. determining the effect of this simple therapy on cost  outcomes  and other patient populations requires further study.
2197,metformin—mode of action and clinical implications for diabetes and cancer,metformin has been the mainstay of therapy for diabetes mellitus for many years; however  the mechanistic aspects of metformin action remained ill-defined. recent advances revealed that this drug  in addition to its glucose-lowering action  might be promising for specifically targeting metabolic differences between normal and abnormal metabolic signalling. the knowledge gained from dissecting the principal mechanisms by which metformin works can help us to develop novel treatments. the centre of metformin's mechanism of action is the alteration of the energy metabolism of the cell. metformin exerts its prevailing  glucose-lowering effect by inhibiting hepatic gluconeogenesis and opposing the action of glucagon. the inhibition of mitochondrial complex i results in defective camp and protein kinase a signalling in response to glucagon. stimulation of 5′-amp-activated protein kinase  although dispensable for the glucose-lowering effect of metformin  confers insulin sensitivity  mainly by modulating lipid metabolism. metformin might influence tumourigenesis  both indirectly  through the systemic reduction of insulin levels  and directly  via the induction of energetic stress; however  these effects require further investigation. here  we discuss the updated understanding of the antigluconeogenic action of metformin in the liver and the implications of the discoveries of metformin targets for the treatment of diabetes mellitus and cancer.
2199,gender  age  and heart failure with preserved left ventricular systolic function.,objectives this study was designed to determine if women are more likely than men to have heart failure (hf) with preserved systolic function after adjustment for potential confounders  including age. background although prior evidence suggests an independent association between female gender and preserved left ventricular systolic function (lvsf) in patients with hf  existing studies are limited by referral biases  small sample sizes  or the inability to adjust for a wide range of potential confounding variables. methods this is a cross-sectional study using data from retrospective medical chart abstraction of a national sample of medicare beneficiaries hospitalized with the principal discharge diagnosis of hf in acute-care nongovernmental hospitals in the u.s. between april 1998 and march 1999. patients were eligible for this analysis if they were age 65 years or older  had documentation of lvsf  and corroboration of the diagnosis of hf. we used multivariable logistic regression to identify the correlates of preserved lvsf  which was defined as qualitatively normal function or quantitatively reported ejection fraction > or =0.50. stratified regressions by gender were performed to identify significant interactions. results of the 19 710 patients in the analysis  preserved lvsf was present in 6 700 (35%)  79% of whom were women. in contrast  among the 12 956 patients with impaired lvsf  only 49% were women. patients with preserved lvsf were 1.5 years older than those with impaired lvsf. after adjustment for age and other patient factors  female gender remained strongly associated with preserved lvsf (calculated risk ratio = 1.71; 95% confidence interval 1.63 to 1.78). the association was consistent in all age groups  and was similar in patients with or without coronary artery disease  hypertension  pulmonary disease  renal insufficiency  or atrial fibrillation. conclusions in elderly patients hospitalized with hf  preserved systolic function is primarily a condition of women  independent of important demographic and clinical characteristics.
2201,summary,glomerular basement membrane (gbm) and podocalyxin are essential for podocyte morphology. we provide evidence of functional interconnections between basement membrane components (collagen iv and laminin)  the expression of podocalyxin and the morphology of human glomerular epithelial cells (podocytes). we demonstrated that gbm and laminin  but not collagen iv  up-regulated the expression of podocalyxin. scanning electron microscopy revealed that laminin induced a modified morphology of podocytes with process formation  which was more extensive in the presence of gbm. under high magnification  podocytes appeared ruffled. using transmission electron microscopy we observed that raised areas occurred in the basal cell surface. furthermore  the presence of anti-podocalyxin antibody increased the extent of adhesion and spreading of podocytes to both collagen iv and laminin  thus podocalyxin apparently inhibits cell-matrix interactions. we also performed adhesion and spreading assays on podocytes grown under increased glucose concentration (25 mm). under these conditions  the expression of podocalyxin was almost totally suppressed. the cells adhered and spread to basement membrane components but there was no increase in the extent of adhesion and spreading in the presence of anti-podocalyxin antibody  or ruffling of the cell edges. additionally  in podocytes expressing podocalyxin  the presence of anti-podocalyxin antibody partially reversed the inhibition of adhesion to collagen iv provoked by anti-beta1 integrin antibody  thus podocalyxin should compete with beta1-related cell adhesion. we suggest that the observed podocalyxin-mediated inhibition of binding to the matrix could be in part responsible for the specialized conformation of the basal surface of podocytes.
2203,grip strength in healthy caucasian adults: reference values.,purpose the aim of this study was to update reference data of handgrip strength for healthy adults of both genders spanning a wide age range and to analyze possible factors of influence. methods intraindividual and interindividual variations of grip strength and their relation to several anthropometric factors were analyzed in a standardized manner for 769 healthy adults (women  n = 403; men  n = 366) aged between 20 years and 95 years. measurements were done in neutral position of arm  forearm  and wrist on setting ii of a baseline digital hydraulic dynamometer (nexgen ergonomics inc. quebec  canada). results mean strength was about 41% less in women (right 29 kg; left 27 kg) than in men (right 49 kg; left 47 kg) resulting in a ratio of left to right hand slightly above .95 in both genders. during the course of life  hand strength develops comparably in both genders peaking at 35 years of age and decreasing continuously further on. anthropometric variables such as forearm circumference and length  hand size  or body mass showed a positive correlation with grip strength. body mass index  type of work  and hand dominance showed only a partial positive correlation or no correlation with grip strength. gender and age  followed by parameters representing body length and obesity  were observed to have the highest predictive value for handgrip strength and were therefore entered into the generation of prediction equations. conclusions we recommend side adjustment of measured values for intraindividual comparison and inclusion of information regarding anthropometric characteristics  as well as using gender- and age-adjusted reference values  whereas hand dominance can be neglected. the regression equations we generated might prove to be useful for clinicians or for those who use normative values within software to provide more accurate predictions of strength scores for specific applications.
2205,matrix-embedded osteocytes regulate mobilization of hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells.,the bone marrow (bm) niche comprises multiple cell types that regulate hematopoietic stem/progenitor cell (hspc) migration out of the niche and into the circulation. here  we demonstrate that osteocytes  the major cellular component of mature bone  are regulators of hspc egress. granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (g-csf)  used clinically to mobilize hspcs  induces changes in the morphology and gene expression of the osteocytic network that precedes changes in osteoblasts. this rapid response is likely under control of the sympathetic nervous system  since osteocytes express the β2-adrenergic receptor and surgical sympathectomy prevents it. mice with targeted ablation of osteocytes or a disrupted osteocyte network have comparable numbers of hspcs in the bm but fail to mobilize hspcs in response to g-csf. taken together  these results indicate that the bm/bone niche interface is critically controlled from inside of the bone matrix and establish an important physiological role for skeletal tissues in hematopoietic function.
2207,the impact of hydroxyethyl starches in cardiac surgery: a meta-analysis,introduction recent studies in septic patients showed that adverse effects of hydroxyethyl starches (hess) possibly outweigh their benefits in severely impaired physiological haemostasis. it remains unclear whether this also applies to patient populations that are less vulnerable. in this meta-analysis  we evaluated the impact of various hes generations on safety and efficacy endpoints in patients undergoing cardiac surgery. methods we searched the pubmed  embase and cochrane central register of controlled trials databases for randomised controlled trials (rcts) in the english or german language comparing the use of hes to any other colloid or crystalloid during open heart surgery. results blood loss and transfusion requirements were higher for older starches with mean molecular weights more than 200 kda compared to other volume substitutes. in contrast  this effect was not observed with latest-generation tetrastarches (130/0.4)  which performed even better when compared to albumin (blood loss of tetrastarch versus albumin: standardised mean difference (smd)  -0.34; 95% ci  -0.63  -0.05; p = 0.02; versus gelatin: smd  -0.06; 95% ci  -0.20  0.08; p = 0.39; versus crystalloids: smd  -0.05; 95% ci  -0.20  0.10; p = 0.54). similar results were found for transfusion needs. lengths of stay in the intensive care unit or hospital were significantly shorter with tetrastarches compared to gelatin (intensive care unit: smd  -0.10; 95% ci  -0.15  -0.05; p = 0.0002) and crystalloids (hospital: smd  -0.52; 95% ci  -0.90  -0.14; p = 0.007). conclusions in this meta-analysis of rcts  we could not identify safety issues with tetrastarches compared with other colloid or crystalloid solutions in terms of blood loss  transfusion requirements or hospital length of stay in patients undergoing cardiac surgery. the safety data on coagulation with older starches raise some issues that need to be addressed in future trials.
2209,linkage disequilibrium mapping of       chek2: common variation and breast cancer risk     ,background checkpoint kinase 2 (chek2) averts cancer development by promoting cell cycle arrest and activating dna repair in genetically damaged cells. previous investigation has established a role for the chek2 gene in breast cancer aetiology  but studies have largely been limited to the rare 1100delc mutation. whether common polymorphisms in this gene influence breast cancer risk remains unknown. in this study  we aimed to assess the importance of common chek2 variants on population risk for breast cancer by capturing the majority of diversity in the gene using haplotype tagging single nucleotide polymorphisms (tagsnps). methods and findings we analyzed 14 common snps spanning 52 kilobases (kb) of the chek2 gene in 92 swedish women. coverage evaluation indicated that these typed snps would efficiently convey association signal also from untyped snps in the same region. six of the 14 snps predicted well both the haplotypic and single snp variations within chek2. we genotyped these six tagsnps in 1 577 postmenopausal breast cancer cases and 1 513 population controls  but found no convincing association between any common chek2 haplotype and breast cancer risk. the 1100delc mutation was rare in our swedish population—0.7% in cases and 0.4% in controls— with a corresponding odds ratio for carriers versus noncarriers of 2.26 (95% confidence interval  0.99–5.15). estimates of the population frequency and the odds ratio of 1100delc indicate that our sample is representative of a northern european population.
2211,intestinal cgi-58 deficiency reduces postprandial lipid absorption,comparative gene identification-58 (cgi-58)  a lipid droplet (ld)-associated protein  promotes intracellular triglyceride (tg) hydrolysis in vitro. mutations in human cgi-58 cause tg accumulation in numerous tissues including intestine. enterocytes are thought not to store tg-rich lds  but a fatty meal does induce temporary cytosolic accumulation of lds. accumulated lds are eventually cleared out  implying existence of tg hydrolytic machinery in enterocytes. however  identities of proteins responsible for ld-tg hydrolysis remain unknown. here we report that intestine-specific inactivation of cgi-58 in mice significantly reduces postprandial plasma tg concentrations and intestinal tg hydrolase activity  which is associated with a 4-fold increase in intestinal tg content and large cytosolic ld accumulation in absorptive enterocytes during the fasting state. intestine-specific cgi-58 knockout mice also display mild yet significant decreases in intestinal fatty acid absorption and oxidation. surprisingly  inactivation of cgi-58 in intestine significantly raises plasma and intestinal cholesterol  and reduces hepatic cholesterol  without altering intestinal cholesterol absorption and fecal neutral sterol excretion. in conclusion  intestinal cgi-58 is required for efficient postprandial lipoprotein-tg secretion and for maintaining hepatic and plasma lipid homeostasis. our animal model will serve as a valuable tool to further define how intestinal fat metabolism influences the pathogenesis of metabolic disorders  such as obesity and type 2 diabetes.
2213,lactic acidosis in patients with diabetes treated with metformin.,to the editor: from may 1995  when metformin was introduced in the united states  through june 30  1996  the food and drug administration (fda) received reports of lactic acidosis in 66 patients treated with metformin. in 47 patients  the diagnosis was confirmed on the basis of circulating lactate values (>5 mmol per liter)  in accordance with established criteria for the diagnosis of lactic acidosis (table 1).1 2 of the 47 patients with confirmed diagnoses  43 had one or more risk factors for lactic acidosis. thirty (64 percent) had preexisting cardiac disease  of whom 18 had histories of congestive heart failure. . . .
2215,repositioning of aurora b promoted by chiasmata ensures sister chromatid mono-orientation in meiosis i.,during meiosis i  kinetochores of sister chromatids are juxtaposed or fused and mono-orient  while homologous chromosomes that are paired by chiasmata (bivalents) have to biorient. in the absence of chiasmata  biorientation of sister chromatids (univalents)  which carries a risk of aneuploidy  has been occasionally detected in several species  including humans. we show in fission yeast that biorientation of fused sister kinetochores predominates during early prometaphase i. without chiasmata  this undesirable biorientation of univalents persists and eventually evades the spindle assembly checkpoint  provoking abnormal anaphase. when univalents are connected by chiasmata or by an artificial tether  this erroneous attachment is converted to monopolar attachment and stabilized. this stabilization is apparently achieved by a chromosome configuration that brings kinetochores to the outer edge of the bivalent  while bringing aurora b  a destabilizer of kinetochore-microtubule attachment  inward. our results elucidate how chiasmata favor biorientation of bivalents over that of univalents at meiosis i.
2217,glucose repression in saccharomyces cerevisiae,glucose is the primary source of energy for the budding yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae. although yeast cells can utilize a wide range of carbon sources  presence of glucose suppresses molecular activities involved in the use of alternate carbon sources as well as it represses respiration and gluconeogenesis. this dominant effect of glucose on yeast carbon metabolism is coordinated by several signaling and metabolic interactions that mainly regulate transcriptional activity but are also effective at post-transcriptional and post-translational levels. this review describes effects of glucose repression on yeast carbon metabolism with a focus on roles of the snf3/rgt2 glucose-sensing pathway and snf1 signal transduction in establishment and relief of glucose repression.
2219,exploring the temporal structure of heterochronous sequences using tempest (formerly path-o-gen),gene sequences sampled at different points in time can be used to infer molecular phylogenies on a natural timescale of months or years  provided that the sequences in question undergo measurable amounts of evolutionary change between sampling times. data sets with this property are termed heterochronous and have become increasingly common in several fields of biology  most notably the molecular epidemiology of rapidly evolving viruses. here we introduce the cross-platform software tool  tempest (formerly known as path-o-gen)  for the visualization and analysis of temporally sampled sequence data. given a molecular phylogeny and the dates of sampling for each sequence  tempest uses an interactive regression approach to explore the association between genetic divergence through time and sampling dates. tempest can be used to (1) assess whether there is sufficient temporal signal in the data to proceed with phylogenetic molecular clock analysis  and (2) identify sequences whose genetic divergence and sampling date are incongruent. examination of the latter can help identify data quality problems  including errors in data annotation  sample contamination  sequence recombination  or alignment error. we recommend that all users of the molecular clock models implemented in beast first check their data using tempest prior to analysis.
2221,vertebrate rod photoreceptors express both bk and ik calcium-activated potassium channels  but only bk channels are involved in receptor potential regulation.,in salamander rods  ca(2+)-activated k(+) current (i(kca)) provides an effective "clamp" of the dark membrane potential to its normal resting level. by a combination of electrophysiological  pharmacological  and immunohistochemical approaches  we show that salamander rods functionally express large-conductance ca(2+)- and voltage-dependent potassium (bk) channel and intermediate-conductance ca(2+)-dependent potassium (ik) channel  but not small-conductance ca(2+)-dependent potassium channel (sk) subtypes. application of 100 nm iberiotoxin and 100 nm clotrimazole reduced net i(kca) to 36% and 63%  respectively  whereas the current was unaffected by application of 1 microm apamin. consistently  anti- sk1  -sk2  and -sk3 antibodies were unable to stain rod photoreceptors  whereas both anti-bk and -sk4/ ik1 antibodies heavily stained the ellipsoid region of the inner segments of the rods. moreover  by using current-clamp experiments  it was clearly seen that the strong clamping effect of the total i(kca) was lost when ibtx  but not cltz  was applied to the bath. this behavior strongly suggests that of bk and ik channels  only the former are responsible for the clamping effect on the photoreceptor membrane potential.
2223,assessing the cost effectiveness of using prognostic biomarkers with decision models: case study in prioritising patients waiting for coronary artery surgery,objective to determine the effectiveness and cost effectiveness of using information from circulating biomarkers to inform the prioritisation process of patients with stable angina awaiting coronary artery bypass graft surgery. design decision analytical model comparing four prioritisation strategies without biomarkers (no formal prioritisation  two urgency scores  and a risk score) and three strategies based on a risk score using biomarkers: a routinely assessed biomarker (estimated glomerular filtration rate)  a novel biomarker (c reactive protein)  or both. the order in which to perform coronary artery bypass grafting in a cohort of patients was determined by each prioritisation strategy  and mean lifetime costs and quality adjusted life years (qalys) were compared. data sources swedish coronary angiography and angioplasty registry (9935 patients with stable angina awaiting coronary artery bypass grafting and then followed up for cardiovascular events after the procedure for 3.8 years)  and meta-analyses of prognostic effects (relative risks) of biomarkers. results the observed risk of cardiovascular events while on the waiting list for coronary artery bypass grafting was 3 per 10 000 patients per day within the first 90 days (184 events in 9935 patients). using a cost effectiveness threshold of pound20 000- pound30 000 (euro22 000-euro33 000; $32 000-$48 000) per additional qaly  a prioritisation strategy using a risk score with estimated glomerular filtration rate was the most cost effective strategy (cost per additional qaly was < pound410 compared with the ontario urgency score). the impact on population health of implementing this strategy was 800 qalys per 100 000 patients at an additional cost of pound 245 000 to the national health service. the prioritisation strategy using a risk score with c reactive protein was associated with lower qalys and higher costs compared with a risk score using estimated glomerular filtration rate. conclusion evaluating the cost effectiveness of prognostic biomarkers is important even when effects at an individual level are small. formal prioritisation of patients awaiting coronary artery bypass grafting using a routinely assessed biomarker (estimated glomerular filtration rate) along with simple  routinely collected clinical information was cost effective. prioritisation strategies based on the prognostic information conferred by c reactive protein  which is not currently measured in this context  or a combination of c reactive protein and estimated glomerular filtration rate  is unlikely to be cost effective. the widespread practice of using only implicit or informal means of clinically ordering the waiting list may be harmful and should be replaced with formal prioritisation approaches.
2225,histone methylation-dependent mechanisms impose ligand dependency for gene activation by nuclear receptors,nuclear receptors undergo ligand-dependent conformational changes that are required for corepressor-coactivator exchange  but whether there is an actual requirement for specific epigenetic landmarks to impose ligand dependency for gene activation remains unknown. here we report an unexpected and general strategy that is based on the requirement for specific cohorts of inhibitory histone methyltransferases (hmts) to impose gene-specific gatekeeper functions that prevent unliganded nuclear receptors and other classes of regulated transcription factors from binding to their target gene promoters and causing constitutive gene activation in the absence of stimulating signals. this strategy  based at least in part on an hmt-dependent inhibitory histone code  imposes a requirement for specific histone demethylases  including lsd1  to permit ligand- and signal-dependent activation of regulated gene expression. these events link an inhibitory methylation component of the histone code to a broadly used strategy that circumvents pathological constitutive gene induction by physiologically regulated transcription factors.
2227,the developmental transcriptome of the mosquito aedes aegypti  an invasive species and major arbovirus vector,mosquitoes are vectors of a number of important human and animal diseases. the development of novel vector control strategies requires a thorough understanding of mosquito biology. to facilitate this  we used rna-seq to identify novel genes and provide the first high-resolution view of the transcriptome throughout development and in response to blood feeding in a mosquito vector of human disease  aedes aegypti  the primary vector for dengue and yellow fever. we characterized mrna expression at 34 distinct time points throughout aedes development  including adult somatic and germline tissues  by using polya+ rna-seq. we identify a total of 14 238 novel new transcribed regions corresponding to 12 597 new loci  as well as many novel transcript isoforms of previously annotated genes. altogether these results increase the annotated fraction of the transcribed genome into long polya+ rnas by more than twofold. we also identified a number of patterns of shared gene expression  as well as genes and/or exons expressed sex-specifically or sex-differentially. expression profiles of small rnas in ovaries  early embryos  testes  and adult male and female somatic tissues also were determined  resulting in the identification of 38 new aedes-specific mirnas  and ~291 000 small rna new transcribed regions  many of which are likely to be endogenous small-interfering rnas and piwi-interacting rnas. genes of potential interest for transgene-based vector control strategies also are highlighted. our data have been incorporated into a user-friendly genome browser located at www. aedes.caltech.edu  with relevant links to vectorbase (www.vectorbase.org).
2229,als-fus pathology revisited: singleton fus mutations and an unusual case with both a fus and tardbp mutation,introduction mutations in the fus gene have been shown to be a rare cause of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (als-fus) and whilst well documented clinically and genetically there have been relatively few neuropathological studies. recent work suggested a possible correlation between pathological features such as frequency of basophilic inclusions in neurons and rate of clinical decline  other studies have revealed a discrepancy between the upper motor neuron features detected clinically and the associated pathology. the purpose of this study was to describe the pathological features associated with more recently discovered fus mutations and reinvestigate those with well recognised mutations in an attempt to correlate the pathology with mutation and/or clinical phenotype. the brains and spinal cords of seven cases of als-fus were examined neuropathologically  including cases with the newly described p. k510e mutation and a case with both a known p. p525l mutation in the fus gene and a truncating p. y374x mutation in the tardbp gene. results the neuropathology in all cases revealed basophilic and fus inclusions in the cord. the density and type of inclusions varied markedly between cases  but did not allow a clear correlation with clinical progression. only one case showed significant motor cortical pathology despite the upper motor neuron clinical features being evident in 4 patients. the case with both a fus and tardbp mutation revealed fus positive inclusions but no tdp-43 pathology. instead there were unusual p62 positive  fus negative neuronal and glial inclusions as well as dot-like neurites. conclusions the study confirms cases of als-fus to be mainly a lower motor neuron disease and to have pathology that does not appear to neatly correlate with clinical features or genetics. furthermore  the case with both a fus and tardbp mutation reveals an intriguing pathological profile which at least in part involves a very unusual staining pattern for the ubiquitin-binding protein p62.
2231,a systematic review of parent and clinician views and perceptions that influence prescribing decisions in relation to acute childhood infections in primary care,objectives to investigate the views of parents  clinicians  and children pertaining to prescribing decisions for acute childhood infection in primary care. methods a systematic review of qualitative studies. meta-ethnographic methods were used  with data drawn from the primary studies in an interpretive analysis. results a total of 15 studies met the inclusion criteria. the literature was dominated by concerns about antibiotic over-prescription. children's views were not reported. clinicians prescribed antibiotics when they felt pressured by parents or others (e.g. employers) to do so  when they believed there was a clear clinical indication  but also when they felt uncertain of clinical or social outcomes they prescribed "just in case". parents wanted antibiotics when they felt they would improve the current illness  and when they felt pressure from daycare providers or employers. clinicians avoided antibiotics when they were concerned about adverse reactions or drug resistance  when certain they were not indicated  and when there was no perceived pressure from parents. parents also wished to avoid adverse effects of antibiotics  and did not want antibiotics when they would not relieve current symptoms. some parents preferred to avoid medication altogether. within paediatric consultations  parents sought a medical evaluation and decision. primary care clinicians want satisfied parents and short consultations. conclusions antibiotic prescriptions for childhood infections in primary care often result from "just in case" prescribing. these findings suggest that interventions which reduce clinician uncertainty regarding social or clinical outcomes and provide strategies to meet parents' needs within a short consultation are most likely to reduce antibiotic prescribing.
2233,involvement of cortical fast-spiking parvalbumin-positive basket cells in epilepsy.,gabaergic interneurons of the parvalbumin-positive fast-spiking basket cells subtype (pv ins) are important regulators of cortical network excitability and of gamma oscillations  involved in signal processing and cognition. impaired development or function of pv ins has been associated with epilepsy in various animal models of epilepsy  as well as in some genetic forms of epilepsy in humans. in this review  we provide an overview of some of the experimental data linking pv ins dysfunction with epilepsy  focusing on disorders of the specification  migration  maturation  synaptic function  or connectivity of pv ins. furthermore  we reflect on the potential therapeutic use of cell-type specific stimulation of pv ins within active networks and on the transplantation of pv ins precursors in the treatment of epilepsy and its comorbidities.
2235,canonical transient receptor potential 5 channel in conjunction with orai1 and stim1 allows sr2+ entry  optimal influx of ca2+  and degranulation in a rat mast cell line.,degranulation of mast cells in response to ag or the calcium mobilizing agent  thapsigargin  is dependent on emptying of intracellular stores of ca(2+) and the ensuing influx of external ca(2+)  also referred to as store-operated calcium entry. however  it is unlikely that the calcium release-activated calcium channel is the sole mechanism for the entry of ca(2+) because sr(2+) and other divalent cations also permeate and support degranulation in stimulated mast cells. in this study we show that influx of ca(2+) and sr(2+) as well as degranulation are dependent on the presence of the canonical transient receptor potential (trpc) channel protein trpc5  in addition to stim1 and orai1  as demonstrated by knock down of each of these proteins by inhibitory rnas in a rat mast cell (rbl-2h3) line. overexpression of stim1 and orai1  which are known to be essential components of calcium release-activated calcium channel  allows entry of ca(2+) but not sr(2+)  whereas overexpression of stim1 and trpc5 allows entry of both ca(2+) and sr(2+). these and other observations suggest that the sr(2+)-permeable trpc5 associates with stim1 and orai1 in a stoichiometric manner to enhance entry of ca(2+) to generate a signal for degranulation.
2237,large intestine-targeted nanoparticle-releasing oral vaccine to control genitorectal viral infection,both rectal and vaginal mucosal surfaces serve as transmission routes for pathogenic microorganisms. vaccination through large intestinal mucosa  previously proven protective for both of these mucosal sites in animal studies  can be achieved successfully by direct intracolorectal (i.c.r.) administration  but this route is clinically impractical. oral vaccine delivery seems preferable but runs the risk of the vaccine's destruction in the upper gastrointestinal tract. therefore  we designed a large intestine-targeted oral delivery with ph-dependent microparticles containing vaccine nanoparticles  which induced colorectal immunity in mice comparably to colorectal vaccination and protected against rectal and vaginal viral challenge. conversely  vaccine targeted to the small intestine induced only small intestinal immunity and provided no rectal or vaginal protection  demonstrating functional compartmentalization within the gut mucosal immune system. therefore  using this oral vaccine delivery system to target the large intestine  but not the small intestine  may represent a feasible new strategy for immune protection of rectal and vaginal mucosa.
2239,prognostic value of late gadolinium enhancement cardiovascular magnetic resonance in cardiac amyloidosis,background the prognosis and treatment of the 2 main types of cardiac amyloidosis  immunoglobulin light chain (al) and transthyretin (attr) amyloidosis  are substantially influenced by cardiac involvement. cardiovascular magnetic resonance with late gadolinium enhancement (lge) is a reference standard for the diagnosis of cardiac amyloidosis  but its potential for stratifying risk is unknown. methods and results two hundred fifty prospectively recruited subjects  122 patients with attr amyloid  9 asymptomatic mutation carriers  and 119 patients with al amyloidosis  underwent lge cardiovascular magnetic resonance. subjects were followed up for a mean of 24±13 months. lge was performed with phase-sensitive inversion recovery (psir) and without (magnitude only). these were compared with extracellular volume measured with t1 mapping. psir was superior to magnitude-only inversion recovery lge because psir always nulled the tissue (blood or myocardium) with the longest t1 (least gadolinium). lge was classified into 3 patterns: none  subendocardial  and transmural  which were associated with increasing amyloid burden as defined by extracellular volume (p<0.0001)  with transitions from none to subendocardial lge at an extracellular volume of 0.40 to 0.43 (al) and 0.39 to 0.40 (attr) and to transmural at 0.48 to 0.55 (al) and 0.47 to 0.59 (attr). sixty-seven patients (27%) died. transmural lge predicted death (hazard ratio  5.4; 95% confidence interval  2.1-13.7; p<0.0001) and remained independent after adjustment for n-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide  ejection fraction  stroke volume index  e/e'  and left ventricular mass index (hazard ratio  4.1; 95% confidence interval  1.3-13.1; p<0.05). conclusions there is a continuum of cardiac involvement in systemic al and attr amyloidosis. transmural lge is determined reliably by psir and represents advanced cardiac amyloidosis. the psir technique provides incremental information on outcome even after adjustment for known prognostic factors.
2241,human recq helicases in dna repair  recombination  and replication.,recq helicases are an important family of genome surveillance proteins conserved from bacteria to humans. each of the five human recq helicases plays critical roles in genome maintenance and stability  and the recq protein family members are often referred to as guardians of the genome. the importance of these proteins in cellular homeostasis is underscored by the fact that defects in blm  wrn  and recql4 are linked to distinct heritable human disease syndromes. each human recq helicase has a unique set of protein-interacting partners  and these interactions dictate its specialized functions in genome maintenance  including dna repair  recombination  replication  and transcription. human recq helicases also interact with each other  and these interactions have significant impact on enzyme function. future research goals in this field include a better understanding of the division of labor among the human recq helicases and learning how human recq helicases collaborate and cooperate to enhance genome stability.
2243,tet1 and tet2 regulate 5-hydroxymethylcytosine production and cell lineage specification in mouse embryonic stem cells.,tet family enzymes convert 5-methylcytosine (5mc) to 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmc) in dna. here  we show that tet1 and tet2 are oct4-regulated enzymes that together sustain 5hmc in mouse embryonic stem cells (escs) and are induced concomitantly with 5hmc during reprogramming of fibroblasts to induced pluripotent stem cells. escs depleted of tet1 by rnai show diminished expression of the nodal antagonist lefty1 and display hyperactive nodal signaling and skewed differentiation into the endoderm-mesoderm lineage in embryoid bodies in vitro. in fgf4- and heparin-supplemented culture conditions  tet1-depleted escs activate the trophoblast stem cell lineage determinant elf5 and can colonize the placenta in midgestation embryo chimeras. consistent with these findings  tet1-depleted escs form aggressive hemorrhagic teratomas with increased endoderm  reduced neuroectoderm  and ectopic appearance of trophoblastic giant cells. thus  5hmc is an epigenetic modification associated with the pluripotent state  and tet1 functions to regulate the lineage differentiation potential of escs.
2245,chemokine-like receptor 1 (cmklr1) and chemokine (c-c motif) receptor-like 2 (ccrl2); two multifunctional receptors with unusual properties.,chemokine-like receptor 1 (cmklr1)  also known as chemr23  and chemokine (c-c motif) receptor-like 2 (ccrl2) are 7-transmembrane receptors that were cloned in the late 1990s based on their homology to known g-protein-coupled receptors. they were previously orphan receptors without any known biological roles; however  recent studies identified ligands for these receptors and their functions have begun to be unveiled. the plasma protein-derived chemoattractant chemerin is a ligand for cmklr1 and activation of cmklr1 with chemerin induces the migration of macrophages and dendritic cells (dcs) in vitro  suggesting a proinflammatory role. however  in vivo studies using cmklr-deficient mice suggest an anti-inflammatory role for this receptor  possibly due to the recruitment of tolerogenic plasmacytoid dcs. chemerin/cmklr1 interaction also promotes adipogenesis and angiogenesis. the anti-inflammatory lipid mediator  resolving e1  is another cmklr1 ligand and it inhibits leukocyte infiltration and proinflammatory gene expression. these divergent results suggest that cmklr1 is a multifunctional receptor. the chemokine ccl5 and ccl19 are reported to bind to ccrl2. like duffy antigen for chemokine receptor (darc)  d6 and ccx-ckr  ccrl2 does not signal  but it constitutively recycles  potentially reducing local concentration of ccl5 and ccl19 and subsequent immune responses. surprisingly  chemerin  a ligand for cmklr1  is a ligand for ccrl2. ccrl2 binds chemerin and increases local chemerin concentration to efficiently present it to cmklr1 on nearby cells  providing a link between ccrl2 and cmklr1. although these findings suggest an anti-inflammatory role  a recent study using ccrl2-deficient mice indicates a proinflammatory role; thus  ccrl2 may also be multifunctional. further studies using cmklr1- or ccrl2-deficient mice are needed to further define the role of these receptors in immune responses and other cellular processes.
2247,stim1 is a calcium sensor specialized for digital signaling,when cells are activated by calcium-mobilizing agonists at low  physiological concentrations  the resulting calcium signals generally take the form of repetitive regenerative discharges of stored calcium  termed calcium oscillations [1]. these intracellular calcium oscillations have long fascinated biologists as a mode of digitized intracellular signaling. recent work has highlighted the role of calcium influx as an essential component of calcium oscillations [2]. this influx occurs through a process known as store-operated calcium entry  which is initiated by calcium sensor proteins  stim1 and stim2  in the endoplasmic reticulum [3]. stim2 is activated by changes in endoplasmic reticulum calcium near the resting level  whereas a threshold of calcium depletion is required for stim1 activation [4]. here we show that  surprisingly  it is stim1 and not stim2 that is exclusively involved in calcium entry during calcium oscillations. the implication is that each oscillation produces a transient drop in endoplasmic reticulum calcium and that this drop is sufficient to transiently activate stim1. this transient activation of stim1 can be observed in some cells by total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy. this arrangement nicely provides a clearly defined and unambiguous signaling system  translating a digital calcium release signal into calcium influx that can signal to downstream effectors.
2249,histone structure and nucleosome stability.,histone proteins play essential structural and functional roles in the transition between active and inactive chromatin states. although histones have a high degree of conservation due to constraints to maintain the overall structure of the nucleosomal octameric core  variants have evolved to assume diverse roles in gene regulation and epigenetic silencing. histone variants  post-translational modifications and interactions with chromatin remodeling complexes influence dna replication  transcription  repair and recombination. the authors review recent findings on the structure of chromatin that confirm previous interparticle interactions observed in crystal structures.
2251,53bp1 inhibits homologous recombination in brca1-deficient cells by blocking resection of dna breaks,defective dna repair by homologous recombination (hr) is thought to be a major contributor to tumorigenesis in individuals carrying brca1 mutations. here  we show that dna breaks in brca1-deficient cells are aberrantly joined into complex chromosome rearrangements by a process dependent on the nonhomologous end-joining (nhej) factors 53bp1 and dna ligase 4. loss of 53bp1 alleviates hypersensitivity of brca1 mutant cells to parp inhibition and restores error-free repair by hr. mechanistically  53bp1 deletion promotes atm-dependent processing of broken dna ends to produce recombinogenic single-stranded dna competent for hr. in contrast  lig4 deficiency does not rescue the hr defect in brca1 mutant cells but prevents the joining of chromatid breaks into chromosome rearrangements. our results illustrate that hr and nhej compete to process dna breaks that arise during dna replication and that shifting the balance between these pathways can be exploited to selectively protect or kill cells harboring brca1 mutations.
2253,copi complex is a regulator of lipid homeostasis,lipid droplets are ubiquitous triglyceride and sterol ester storage organelles required for energy storage homeostasis and biosynthesis. although little is known about lipid droplet formation and regulation  it is clear that members of the pat (perilipin  adipocyte differentiation related protein  tail interacting protein of 47 kda) protein family coat the droplet surface and mediate interactions with lipases that remobilize the stored lipids. we identified key drosophila candidate genes for lipid droplet regulation by rna interference (rnai) screening with an image segmentation-based optical read-out system  and show that these regulatory functions are conserved in the mouse. those include the vesicle-mediated coat protein complex i (copi) transport complex  which is required for limiting lipid storage. we found that copi components regulate the pat protein composition at the lipid droplet surface  and promote the association of adipocyte triglyceride lipase (atgl) with the lipid droplet surface to mediate lipolysis. two compounds known to inhibit copi function  exo1 and brefeldin a  phenocopy copi knockdowns. furthermore  rnai inhibition of atgl and simultaneous drug treatment indicate that copi and atgl function in the same pathway. these data indicate that the copi complex is an evolutionarily conserved regulator of lipid homeostasis  and highlight an interaction between vesicle transport systems and lipid droplets.
2255,homocysteine and other thiols in plasma and urine: automated determination and sample stability.,we have developed a modified version of our fully automated column-switching hplc method for determining total plasma homocysteine based on single-column (reversed-phase) separation. homocysteine  cysteine  and cysteinylglycine in plasma (total concentrations)  acid-precipitated plasma (non-protein-bound concentrations)  and urine can be determined. the derivatization and chromatography were performed automatically by a sample processor. the successful separation of all thiol species (within 15 min) was accomplished by accurate adjustment of the ph of the mobile phase to 3.65 (plasma) or 3.50 (acid-precipitated plasma  urine). maximal fluorescence yield of cysteine  cysteinylglycine  and  to a lesser degree  homocysteine was dependent on optimal concentrations of edta and dithioerythritol during reduction (with nabh4) and derivatization (with monobromobimane). the method is sensitive (detection limit approximately 0.05 pmol) and has a high degree of precision (cv < 5%). the sample output is approximately 70 samples in 24 h. serum and heparin plasma can also be analyzed. hemolysis up to approximately 2.0 g/l of hemoglobin did not interfere with the analytical recovery of homocysteine or cysteine. collection of blood  separation of plasma from whole blood  and acid precipitation must be standardized to obtain reproducible thiol results. our modifications and the standardization of blood-sampling procedures have substantially improved the method and broadened its applications.
2257,nitrite protects against morbidity and mortality associated with tnf- or lps-induced shock in a soluble guanylate cyclase–dependent manner,nitrite (no(2)(-))  previously viewed as a physiologically inert metabolite and biomarker of the endogenous vasodilator no  was recently identified as an important biological no reservoir in vasculature and tissues  where it contributes to hypoxic signaling  vasodilation  and cytoprotection after ischemia-reperfusion injury. reduction of nitrite to no may occur enzymatically at low ph and oxygen tension by deoxyhemoglobin  deoxymyoglobin  xanthine oxidase  mitochondrial complexes  or no synthase (nos). we show that nitrite treatment  in sharp contrast with the worsening effect of nos inhibition  significantly attenuates hypothermia  mitochondrial damage  oxidative stress and dysfunction  tissue infarction  and mortality in a mouse shock model induced by a lethal tumor necrosis factor challenge. mechanistically  nitrite-dependent protection was not associated with inhibition of mitochondrial complex i activity  as previously demonstrated for ischemia-reperfusion  but was largely abolished in mice deficient for the soluble guanylate cyclase (sgc) alpha1 subunit  one of the principal intracellular no receptors and signal transducers in the cardiovasculature. nitrite could also provide protection against toxicity induced by gram-negative lipopolysaccharide  although higher doses were required. in conclusion  we show that nitrite can protect against toxicity in shock via sgc-dependent signaling  which may include hypoxic vasodilation necessary to maintain microcirculation and organ function  and cardioprotection.
2259,pooled analysis of prospective cohort studies on height  weight  and breast cancer risk.,the association between anthropometric indices and the risk of breast cancer was analyzed using pooled data from seven prospective cohort studies. together  these cohorts comprise 337 819 women and 4 385 incident invasive breast cancer cases. in multivariate analyses controlling for reproductive  dietary  and other risk factors  the pooled relative risk (rr) of breast cancer per height increment of 5 cm was 1.02 (95% confidence interval (ci): 0.96  1.10) in premenopausal women and 1.07 (95% ci: 1.03  1.12) in postmenopausal women. body mass index (bmi) showed significant inverse and positive associations with breast cancer among pre- and postmenopausal women  respectively; these associations were nonlinear. compared with premenopausal women with a bmi of less than 21 kg/m2  women with a bmi exceeding 31 kg/m2 had an rr of 0.54 (95% ci: 0.34  0.85). in postmenopausal women  the rrs did not increase further when bmi exceeded 28 kg/m2; the rr for these women was 1.26 (95% ci: 1.09  1.46). the authors found little evidence for interaction with other breast cancer risk factors. their data indicate that height is an independent risk factor for postmenopausal breast cancer; in premenopausal women  this relation is less clear. the association between bmi and breast cancer varies by menopausal status. weight control may reduce the risk among postmenopausal women.
2261,persistent human papillomavirus infection and cervical neoplasia: a systematic review and meta-analysis.,detection of persistent cervical carcinogenic human papillomavirus (hpv) dna is used as a marker for cervical cancer risk in clinical trials. the authors performed a systematic review and meta-analysis of the association between persistent hpv dna and high-grade cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin2-3)  high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (hsil)  and invasive cervical cancer (together designated cin2-3/hsil+) to evaluate the robustness of hpv persistence for clinical use. medline and current contents were searched through january 30  2006. relative risks (rrs) were stratified by hpv comparison group. of 2 035 abstracts  41 studies were eligible for inclusion in the meta-analysis. over 22 500 women were included in calculation of rrs for persistent hpv dna detection and cervical neoplasia. rrs ranged from 1.3 (95% confidence interval: 1.1  1.5) to 813.0 (95% confidence interval: 168.2  3 229.2) for cin2-3/hsil+ versus 12 months)  wider testing intervals  cin2-3/hsil+  and use of an hpv-negative reference group were consistently associated with higher rrs. thus  hpv persistence was consistently and strongly associated with cin2-3/hsil+  despite wide variation in definitions and study methods. the magnitude of association varied by duration of persistence and testing interval. precise definition and standardization of hpv testing  sampling procedure  and test interval are needed for reliable clinical testing. these findings validate hpv persistence as a clinical marker and endpoint.
2263,cd28 costimulation: from mechanism to therapy.,ligation of the cd28 receptor on t cells provides a critical second signal alongside t cell receptor (tcr) ligation for naive t cell activation. here  we discuss the expression  structure  and biochemistry of cd28 and its ligands. cd28 signals play a key role in many t cell processes  including cytoskeletal remodeling  production of cytokines  survival  and differentiation. cd28 ligation leads to unique epigenetic  transcriptional  and post-translational changes in t cells that cannot be recapitulated by tcr ligation alone. we discuss the function of cd28 and its ligands in both effector and regulatory t cells. cd28 is critical for regulatory t cell survival and the maintenance of immune homeostasis. we outline the roles that cd28 and its family members play in human disease and we review the clinical efficacy of drugs that block cd28 ligands. despite the centrality of cd28 and its family members and ligands to immune function  many aspects of cd28 biology remain unclear. translation of a basic understanding of cd28 function into immunomodulatory therapeutics has been uneven  with both successes and failures. such real-world results might stem from multiple factors  including complex receptor-ligand interactions among cd28 family members  differences between the mouse and human cd28 families  and cell-type specific roles of cd28 family members.
2265,regulation of radial glial survival by signals from the meninges.,radial glial cells (rgcs) in the developing cerebral cortex are progenitors for neurons and glia  and their processes serve as guideposts for migrating neurons. so far  it has remained unclear whether rgc processes also control the function of rgcs more directly. here  we show that rgc numbers and cortical size are reduced in mice lacking beta1 integrins in rgcs. tunel stainings and time-lapse video recordings demonstrate that beta1-deficient rgcs processes detach from the meningeal basement membrane (bm) followed by apoptotic death of rgcs. apoptosis is also induced by surgical removal of the meninges. finally  mice lacking the bm components laminin alpha2 and alpha4 show defects in the attachment of rgc processes at the meninges  a reduction in cortical size  and enhanced apoptosis of rgc cells. our findings demonstrate that attachment of rgc processes at the meninges is important for rgc survival and the control of cortical size.
2267,human contribution to the european heatwave of 2003,the summer of 2003 was probably the hottest in europe since at latest ad 1500  and unusually large numbers of heat-related deaths were reported in france  germany and italy. it is an ill-posed question whether the 2003 heatwave was caused  in a simple deterministic sense  by a modification of the external influences on climate—for example  increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere—because almost any such weather event might have occurred by chance in an unmodified climate. however  it is possible to estimate by how much human activities may have increased the risk of the occurrence of such a heatwave. here we use this conceptual framework to estimate the contribution of human-induced increases in atmospheric concentrations of greenhouse gases and other pollutants to the risk of the occurrence of unusually high mean summer temperatures throughout a large region of continental europe. using a threshold for mean summer temperature that was exceeded in 2003  but in no other year since the start of the instrumental record in 1851  we estimate it is very likely (confidence level >90%) that human influence has at least doubled the risk of a heatwave exceeding this threshold magnitude.
2269,cancer exosomes trigger fibroblast to myofibroblast differentiation.,there is a growing interest in the cell-cell communication roles in cancer mediated by secreted vesicles termed exosomes. in this study  we examined whether exosomes produced by cancer cells could transmit information to normal stromal fibroblasts and trigger a cellular response. we found that some cancer-derived exosomes could trigger elevated α-smooth muscle actin expression and other changes consistent with the process of fibroblast differentiation into myofibroblasts. we show that tgf-β is expressed at the exosome surface in association with the transmembrane proteoglycan betaglycan. although existing in a latent state  this complex was fully functional in eliciting smad-dependent signaling. inhibiting either signaling or betaglycan expression attenuated differentiation. while the kinetics and overall magnitude of the response were similar to that achieved with soluble tgf-β  we identified important qualitative differences unique to the exosomal route of tgf-β delivery  as exemplified by a significant elevation in fibroblast fgf2 production. this hitherto unknown trigger for instigating cellular differentiation in a distinctive manner has major implications for mechanisms underlying cancer-recruited stroma  fibrotic diseases  and wound-healing responses.
2271,hiv treatment as prevention: systematic comparison of mathematical models of the potential impact of antiretroviral therapy on hiv incidence in south africa,background many mathematical models have investigated the impact of expanding access to antiretroviral therapy (art) on new hiv infections. comparing results and conclusions across models is challenging because models have addressed slightly different questions and have reported different outcome metrics. this study compares the predictions of several mathematical models simulating the same art intervention programmes to determine the extent to which models agree about the epidemiological impact of expanded art. methods and findings twelve independent mathematical models evaluated a set of standardised art intervention scenarios in south africa and reported a common set of outputs. intervention scenarios systematically varied the cd4 count threshold for treatment eligibility  access to treatment  and programme retention. for a scenario in which 80% of hiv-infected individuals start treatment on average 1 y after their cd4 count drops below 350 cells/µl and 85% remain on treatment after 3 y  the models projected that hiv incidence would be 35% to 54% lower 8 y after the introduction of art  compared to a counterfactual scenario in which there is no art. more variation existed in the estimated long-term (38 y) reductions in incidence. the impact of optimistic interventions including immediate art initiation varied widely across models  maintaining substantial uncertainty about the theoretical prospect for elimination of hiv from the population using art alone over the next four decades. the number of person-years of art per infection averted over 8 y ranged between 5.8 and 18.7. considering the actual scale-up of art in south africa  seven models estimated that current hiv incidence is 17% to 32% lower than it would have been in the absence of art. differences between model assumptions about cd4 decline and hiv transmissibility over the course of infection explained only a modest amount of the variation in model results. conclusions mathematical models evaluating the impact of art vary substantially in structure  complexity  and parameter choices  but all suggest that art  at high levels of access and with high adherence  has the potential to substantially reduce new hiv infections. there was broad agreement regarding the short-term epidemiologic impact of ambitious treatment scale-up  but more variation in longer term projections and in the efficiency with which treatment can reduce new infections. differences between model predictions could not be explained by differences in model structure or parameterization that were hypothesized to affect intervention impact.
2273,elimination of hiv in south africa through expanded access to antiretroviral therapy: a model comparison study,background expanded access to antiretroviral therapy (art) using universal test and treat (utt) has been suggested as a strategy to eliminate hiv in south africa within 7 y based on an influential mathematical modeling study. however  the underlying deterministic model was criticized widely  and other modeling studies did not always confirm the study's finding. the objective of our study is to better understand the implications of different model structures and assumptions  so as to arrive at the best possible predictions of the long-term impact of utt and the possibility of elimination of hiv. methods and findings we developed nine structurally different mathematical models of the south african hiv epidemic in a stepwise approach of increasing complexity and realism. the simplest model resembles the initial deterministic model  while the most comprehensive model is the stochastic microsimulation model stdsim  which includes sexual networks and hiv stages with different degrees of infectiousness. we defined utt as annual screening and immediate art for all hiv-infected adults  starting at 13% in january 2012 and scaled up to 90% coverage by january 2019. all models predict elimination  yet those that capture more processes underlying the hiv transmission dynamics predict elimination at a later point in time  after 20 to 25 y. importantly  the most comprehensive model predicts that the current strategy of art at cd4 count ≤350 cells/µl will also lead to elimination  albeit 10 y later compared to utt. still  utt remains cost-effective  as many additional life-years would be saved. the study's major limitations are that elimination was defined as incidence below 1/1 000 person-years rather than 0% prevalence  and drug resistance was not modeled. conclusions our results confirm previous predictions that the hiv epidemic in south africa can be eliminated through universal testing and immediate treatment at 90% coverage. however  more realistic models show that elimination is likely to occur at a much later point in time than the initial model suggested. also  utt is a cost-effective intervention  but less cost-effective than previously predicted because the current south african art treatment policy alone could already drive hiv into elimination. please see later in the article for the editors' summary.
2275,structural insights into calicivirus attachment and uncoating.,the caliciviridae family comprises positive-sense rna viruses of medical and veterinary significance. in humans  caliciviruses are a major cause of acute gastroenteritis  while in animals respiratory illness  conjunctivitis  stomatitis  and hemorrhagic disease are documented. investigation of virus-host interactions is limited by a lack of culture systems for many viruses in this family. feline calicivirus (fcv)  a member of the vesivirus genus  provides a tractable model  since it may be propagated in cell culture. feline junctional adhesion molecule 1 (fjam-1) was recently identified as a functional receptor for fcv. we have analyzed the structure of this virus-receptor complex by cryo-electron microscopy and three-dimensional image reconstruction  combined with fitting of homology modeled high-resolution coordinates. we show that domain 1 of fjam-1 binds to the outer face of the p2 domain of the fcv capsid protein vp1  inducing conformational changes in the viral capsid. this study provides the first structural view of a native calicivirus-protein receptor complex and insights into the mechanisms of virus attachment and uncoating.
2277,patient outcomes with teaching versus nonteaching healthcare: a systematic review,background  extensive debate exists in the healthcare community over whether outcomes of medical care at teaching hospitals and other healthcare units are better or worse than those at the respective nonteaching ones. thus  our goal was to systematically evaluate the evidence pertaining to this question. methods and findings  we reviewed all studies that compared teaching versus nonteaching healthcare structures for mortality or any other patient outcome  regardless of health condition. studies were retrieved from pubmed  contact with experts  and literature cross-referencing. data were extracted on setting  patients  data sources  author affiliations  definition of compared groups  types of diagnoses considered  adjusting covariates  and estimates of effect for mortality and for each other outcome. overall  132 eligible studies were identified  including 93 on mortality and 61 on other eligible outcomes (22 addressed both). synthesis of the available adjusted estimates on mortality yielded a summary relative risk of 0.96 (95% confidence interval [ci]  0.93–1.00) for teaching versus nonteaching healthcare structures and 1.04 (95% ci  0.99–1.10) for minor teaching versus nonteaching ones. there was considerable heterogeneity between studies (i2 = 72% for the main analysis). results were similar in studies using clinical and those using administrative databases. no differences were seen in the 14 studies fully adjusting for volume/experience  severity  and comorbidity (relative risk 1.01). smaller studies did not differ in their results from larger studies. differences were seen for some diagnoses (e.g.  significantly better survival for breast cancer and cerebrovascular accidents in teaching hospitals and significantly better survival from cholecystectomy in nonteaching hospitals)  but these were small in magnitude. other outcomes were diverse  but typically teaching healthcare structures did not do better than nonteaching ones. conclusions  the available data are limited by their nonrandomized design  but overall they do not suggest that a healthcare facility's teaching status on its own markedly improves or worsens patient outcomes. differences for specific diseases cannot be excluded  but are likely to be small.
2279,dna repair factor aplf is a histone chaperone.,poly(adp-ribosyl)ation plays a major role in dna repair  where it regulates chromatin relaxation as one of the critical events in the repair process. however  the molecular mechanism by which poly(adp-ribose) modulates chromatin remains poorly understood. here we identify the poly(adp-ribose)-regulated protein aplf as a dna-damage-specific histone chaperone. aplf preferentially binds to the histone h3/h4 tetramer via its c-terminal acidic motif  which is homologous to the motif conserved in the histone chaperones of the nap1l family (nap1l motif). we further demonstrate that aplf exhibits histone chaperone activities in a manner that is dependent on its acidic domain and that the nap1l motif is critical for the repair capacity of aplf in vivo. finally  we identify structural analogs of aplf in lower eukaryotes with the ability to bind histones and localize to the sites of dna-damage-induced poly(adp-ribosyl)ation. collectively  these findings define the involvement of histone chaperones in poly(adp-ribose)-regulated dna repair reactions.
2281,the germ cell determinant blimp1 is not required for derivation of pluripotent stem cells,blimp1 (prdm1)  the key determinant of primordial germ cells (pgcs)  plays a combinatorial role with prdm14 during pgc specification from postimplantation epiblast cells. they together initiate epigenetic reprogramming in early germ cells toward an underlying pluripotent state  which is equivalent to embryonic stem cells (escs). whereas prdm14 alone can promote reprogramming and is important for the propagation of the pluripotent state  it is not known whether blimp1 is similarly involved. by using a genetic approach  we demonstrate that blimp1 is dispensable for the derivation and maintenance of escs and postimplantation epiblast stem cells (episcs). notably  blimp1 is also dispensable for reprogramming episcs to escs. thus  although blimp1 is obligatory for pgc specification  it is not required for the reversion of episcs to escs and for their maintenance thereafter. this study suggests that reprogramming  including that of somatic cells to escs  may not entail an obligatory route through a blimp1-positive pgc-like state.
2283,haplotype estimation using sequencing reads.,high-throughput sequencing technologies produce short sequence reads that can contain phase information if they span two or more heterozygote genotypes. this information is not routinely used by current methods that infer haplotypes from genotype data. we have extended the shapeit2 method to use phase-informative sequencing reads to improve phasing accuracy. our model incorporates the read information in a probabilistic model through base quality scores within each read. the method is primarily designed for high-coverage sequence data or data sets that already have genotypes called. one important application is phasing of single samples sequenced at high coverage for use in medical sequencing and studies of rare diseases. our method can also use existing panels of reference haplotypes. we tested the method by using a mother-father-child trio sequenced at high-coverage by illumina together with the low-coverage sequence data from the 1000 genomes project (1000gp). we found that use of phase-informative reads increases the mean distance between switch errors by 22% from 274.4 kb to 328.6 kb. we also used male chromosome x haplotypes from the 1000gp samples to simulate sequencing reads with varying insert size  read length  and base error rate. when using short 100 bp paired-end reads  we found that using mixtures of insert sizes produced the best results. when using longer reads with high error rates (5-20 kb read with 4%-15% error per base)  phasing performance was substantially improved.
2285,a new system for naming ribosomal proteins.,a system for naming ribosomal proteins is described that the authors intend to use in the future. they urge others to adopt it. the objective is to eliminate the confusion caused by the assignment of identical names to ribosomal proteins from different species that are unrelated in structure and function. in the system proposed here  homologous ribosomal proteins are assigned the same name  regardless of species. it is designed so that new names are similar enough to old names to be easily recognized  but are written in a format that unambiguously identifies them as 'new system' names.
2287,quantitative imaging assay for nf-κb nuclear translocation in primary human macrophages,quantitative measurement of nf-kappab nuclear translocation is an important research tool in cellular immunology. established methodologies have a number of limitations  such as poor sensitivity  high cost or dependence on cell lines. novel imaging methods to measure nuclear translocation of transcriptionally active components of nf-kappab are being used but are also partly limited by the need for specialist imaging equipment or image analysis software. herein we present a method for quantitative detection of nf-kappab rel a nuclear translocation  using immunofluorescence microscopy and the public domain image analysis software imagej that can be easily adopted for cellular immunology research without the need for specialist image analysis expertise and at low cost. the method presented here is validated by demonstrating the time course and dose response of nf-kappab nuclear translocation in primary human macrophages stimulated with lps  and by comparison with a commercial nf-kappab activation reporter cell line.
2289,c9orf72 repeat expansions cause neurodegeneration in drosophila through arginine-rich proteins,an expanded ggggcc repeat in c9orf72 is the most common genetic cause of frontotemporal dementia and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. a fundamental question is whether toxicity is driven by the repeat rna itself and/or by dipeptide repeat proteins generated by repeat-associated  non-atg translation. to address this question  we developed in vitro and in vivo models to dissect repeat rna and dipeptide repeat protein toxicity. expression of pure repeats  but not stop codon–interrupted “rna-only” repeats in drosophila caused adult-onset neurodegeneration. thus  expanded repeats promoted neurodegeneration through dipeptide repeat proteins. expression of individual dipeptide repeat proteins with a non-ggggcc rna sequence revealed that both poly-(glycine-arginine) and poly-(proline-arginine) proteins caused neurodegeneration. these findings are consistent with a dual toxicity mechanism  whereby both arginine-rich proteins and repeat rna contribute to c9orf72-mediated neurodegeneration.
2291,interleukin-2 gene variation impairs regulatory t cell function and causes autoimmunity,autoimmune diseases are thought to result from imbalances in normal immune physiology and regulation. here  we show that autoimmune disease susceptibility and resistance alleles on mouse chromosome 3 (idd3) correlate with differential expression of the key immunoregulatory cytokine interleukin-2 (il-2). in order to test directly that an approximately twofold reduction in il-2 underpins the idd3-linked destabilization of immune homeostasis  we show that engineered haplodeficiency of il2 gene expression not only reduces t cell il-2 production by twofold but also mimics the autoimmune dysregulatory effects of the naturally occurring susceptibility alleles of il2. reduced il-2 production achieved by either genetic mechanism correlates with reduced function of cd4+ cd25+ regulatory t cells  which are critical for maintaining immune homeostasis.
2293,midlife serum cholesterol and increased risk of alzheimer’s and vascular dementia three decades later,aims: to investigate midlife cholesterol in relation to alzheimer’s disease (ad) and vascular dementia (vad) in a large multiethnic cohort of women and men. methods: the kaiser permanente northern california medical group (healthcare delivery organization) formed the database for this study. the 9 844 participants underwent detailed health evaluations during 1964–1973 at ages 40–45 years; they were still members of the health plan in 1994. ad and vad were ascertained by medical records between 1 january 1994 and 1 june 2007. cox proportional hazards models – adjusted for age  education  race/ethnic group  sex  midlife diabetes  hypertension  bmi and late-life stroke – were conducted. results: in total  469 participants had ad and 127 had vad. with desirable cholesterol levels (<200 mg/dl) as a reference  hazard ratios (hr) and 95% ci for ad were 1.23 (0.97–1.55) and 1.57 (1.23–2.01) for borderline (200–239 mg/dl) and high cholesterol (≥240 mg/dl)  respectively. hr and 95% ci for vad were 1.50 (1.01–2.23) for borderline and 1.26 (0.82–1.96) for high cholesterol. further analyses for ad (cholesterol quartiles  1st quartile reference) indicated that cholesterol levels >220 mg/dl were a significant risk factor: hr were 1.31 (1.01–1.71; 3rd quartile  221–248 mg/dl) and 1.58 (1.22–2.06; 4th quartile  249–500 mg/dl). conclusion: midlife serum total cholesterol was associated with an increased risk of ad and vad. even moderately elevated cholesterol increased dementia risk. dementia risk factors need to be addressed as early as midlife  before underlying disease(s) or symptoms appear.
2295,an actomyosin-based barrier inhibits cell mixing at compartmental boundaries in drosophila embryos,partitioning tissues into compartments that do not intermix is essential for the correct morphogenesis of animal embryos and organs. several hypotheses have been proposed to explain compartmental cell sorting  mainly differential adhesion  but also regulation of the cytoskeleton or of cell proliferation. nevertheless  the molecular and cellular mechanisms that keep cells apart at boundaries remain unclear. here we demonstrate  in early drosophila melanogaster embryos  that actomyosin-based barriers stop cells from invading neighbouring compartments. our analysis shows that cells can transiently invade neighbouring compartments  especially when they divide  but are then pushed back into their compartment of origin. actomyosin cytoskeletal components are enriched at compartmental boundaries  forming cable-like structures when the epidermis is mitotically active. when myoii (non-muscle myosin ii) function is inhibited  including locally at the cable by chromophore-assisted laser inactivation (cali)  in live embryos  dividing cells are no longer pushed back  leading to compartmental cell mixing. we propose that local regulation of actomyosin contractibility  rather than differential adhesion  is the primary mechanism sorting cells at compartmental boundaries.
2297,large-scale genetic fine mapping and genotype-phenotype associations implicate polymorphism in the il2ra region in type 1 diabetes,genome-wide association studies are now identifying disease-associated chromosome regions. however  even after convincing replication  the localization of the causal variant(s) requires comprehensive resequencing  extensive genotyping and statistical analyses in large sample sets leading to targeted functional studies. here  we have localized the type 1 diabetes (t1d) association in the interleukin 2 receptor alpha (il2ra) gene region to two independent groups of snps  spanning overlapping regions of 14 and 40 kb  encompassing il2ra intron 1 and the 5′ regions of il2ra and rbm17 (odds ratio = 2.04  95% confidence interval = 1.70–2.45; p = 1.92 × 10−28; control frequency = 0.635). furthermore  we have associated il2ra t1d susceptibility genotypes with lower circulating levels of the biomarker  soluble il-2ra (p = 6.28 × 10−28)  suggesting that an inherited lower immune responsiveness predisposes to t1d.
2299,quality testing of artemisinin-based antimalarial drugs in myanmar.,artemisinin-based combination therapies are the frontline treatment of plasmodium falciparum malaria. the circulation of falsified and substandard artemisinin-based antimalarials in southeast asia has been a major predicament for the malaria elimination campaign. to provide an update of this situation  we purchased 153 artemisinin-containing antimalarials  as convenience samples  in private drug stores from different regions of myanmar. the quality of these drugs in terms of their artemisinin derivative content was tested using specific dipsticks for these artemisinin derivatives  as point-of-care devices. a subset of these samples was further tested by high-performance liquid chromatography (hplc). this survey identified that > 35% of the collected drugs were oral artesunate and artemether monotherapies. when tested with the dipsticks  all but one sample passed the assays  indicating that the detected artemisinin derivative content corresponded approximately to the labeled contents. however  one artesunate injection sample was found to contain no active ingredient at all by the dipstick assay and subsequent hplc analysis. the continued circulation of oral monotherapies and the description  for the first time  of falsified parenteral artesunate provides a worrisome picture of the antimalarial drug quality in myanmar during the malaria elimination phase  a situation that deserves more oversight from regulatory authorities.
2301,immune cell promotion of metastasis,metastatic disease is the major cause of death from cancer  and immunotherapy and chemotherapy have had limited success in reversing its progression. data from mouse models suggest that the recruitment of immunosuppressive cells to tumours protects metastatic cancer cells from surveillance by killer cells  which nullifies the effects of immunotherapy and thus establishes metastasis. furthermore  in most cases  tumour-infiltrating immune cells differentiate into cells that promote each step of the metastatic cascade and thus are novel targets for therapy. in this review  we describe how tumour-infiltrating immune cells contribute to the metastatic cascade and we discuss potential therapeutic strategies to target these cells.
2303,the dynamics of genome-wide dna methylation reprogramming in mouse primordial germ cells,genome-wide dna methylation reprogramming occurs in mouse primordial germ cells (pgcs) and preimplantation embryos  but the precise dynamics and biological outcomes are largely unknown. we have carried out whole-genome bisulfite sequencing (bs-seq) and rna-seq across key stages from e6.5 epiblast to e16.5 pgcs. global loss of methylation takes place during pgc expansion and migration with evidence for passive demethylation  but sequences that carry long-term epigenetic memory (imprints  cpg islands on the x chromosome  germline-specific genes) only become demethylated upon entry of pgcs into the gonads. the transcriptional profile of pgcs is tightly controlled despite global hypomethylation  with transient expression of the pluripotency network  suggesting that reprogramming and pluripotency are inextricably linked. our results provide a framework for the understanding of the epigenetic ground state of pluripotency in the germline.
2305,rna sequencing identifies dysregulation of the human pancreatic islet transcriptome by the saturated fatty acid palmitate.,pancreatic β-cell dysfunction and death are central in the pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes (t2d). saturated fatty acids cause β-cell failure and contribute to diabetes development in genetically predisposed individuals. here we used rna sequencing to map transcripts expressed in five palmitate-treated human islet preparations  observing 1 325 modified genes. palmitate induced fatty acid metabolism and endoplasmic reticulum (er) stress. functional studies identified novel mediators of adaptive er stress signaling. palmitate modified genes regulating ubiquitin and proteasome function  autophagy  and apoptosis. inhibition of autophagic flux and lysosome function contributed to lipotoxicity. palmitate inhibited transcription factors controlling β-cell phenotype  including pax4 and gata6. fifty-nine t2d candidate genes were expressed in human islets  and 11 were modified by palmitate. palmitate modified expression of 17 splicing factors and shifted alternative splicing of 3 525 transcripts. ingenuity pathway analysis of modified transcripts and genes confirmed that top changed functions related to cell death. database for annotation  visualization and integrated discovery (david) analysis of transcription factor binding sites in palmitate-modified transcripts revealed a role for pax4  gata  and the er stress response regulators xbp1 and atf6. this human islet transcriptome study identified novel mechanisms of palmitate-induced β-cell dysfunction and death. the data point to cross talk between metabolic stress and candidate genes at the β-cell level.
2307,dynamic analysis of filopodial interactions during the zippering phase of drosophila dorsal closure.,dorsal closure is a paradigm epithelial fusion episode that occurs late in drosophila embryogenesis and leads to sealing of a midline hole by bonding of two opposing epithelial sheets. the leading edge epithelial cells express filopodia and fusion is dependent on interdigitation of these filopodia to prime formation of adhesions. since the opposing epithelia are molecularly patterned there must exist some mechanism for accurately aligning the two sheets across this fusion seam. to address this  we generated a fly in which rfp-moesin and gfp-moesin are expressed in mutually exclusive stripes within each segment using the engrailed and patched promoters. we observe mutually exclusive interactions between the filopodia of engrailed and patched cells. interactions between filopodia from matching cells leads to formation of tethers between them  and these tethers can pull misaligned epithelial sheets into alignment. filopodial matching also occurs during repair of laser wounds in the ventral epithelium  and so this behaviour is not restricted to leading edge cells during dorsal closure. finally  we characterise the behaviour of a patched-expressing cell that we observe within the engrailed region of segments a1-a5  and provide evidence that this cell contributes to cell matching.
2309,prophylactic and therapeutic efficacy of the epitope vaccine ctb-ua against helicobacter pylori infection in a balb/c mice model,epitope vaccine based on the enzyme urease of helicobacter pylori is a promising option for prophylactic and therapeutic vaccination against h. pylori infection. in our previous study  the epitope vaccine ctb-ua  which was composed of the mucosal adjuvant cholera toxin b subunit (ctb) and an epitope (urea183–203) from the h. pylori urease a subunit (urea) was constructed. this particular vaccine was shown to have good immunogenicity and immunoreactivity and could induce specific neutralizing antibodies  which exhibited effectively inhibitory effects on the enzymatic activity of h. pylori urease. in this study  the prophylactic and therapeutic efficacy of the epitope vaccine ctb-ua was evaluated in a balb/c mice model. the experimental results indicated that oral prophylactic or therapeutic immunization with ctb-ua significantly decreased h. pylori colonization compared with oral immunization with pbs. the results also revealed that the protection was correlated with antigen-specific igg  iga  and mucosal secretory iga antibody responses. ctb-ua may be a promising vaccine candidate for the control of h. pylori infection.
2311,direct conversion of patient fibroblasts demonstrates non-cell autonomous toxicity of astrocytes to motor neurons in familial and sporadic als.,amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (als) causes motor neuron degeneration  paralysis  and death. accurate disease modeling  identifying disease mechanisms  and developing therapeutics is urgently needed. we previously reported motor neuron toxicity through postmortem als spinal cord-derived astrocytes. however  these cells can only be harvested after death  and their expansion is limited. we now report a rapid  highly reproducible method to convert adult human fibroblasts from living als patients to induced neuronal progenitor cells and subsequent differentiation into astrocytes (i-astrocytes). non-cell autonomous toxicity to motor neurons is found following coculture of i-astrocytes from familial als patients with mutation in superoxide dismutase or hexanucleotide expansion in c9orf72 (orf 72 on chromosome 9) the two most frequent causes of als. remarkably  i-astrocytes from sporadic als patients are as toxic as those with causative mutations  suggesting a common mechanism. easy production and expansion of i-astrocytes now enables rapid disease modeling and high-throughput drug screening to alleviate astrocyte-derived toxicity.
2313,acids: structures  properties  and functions (university science books  sausalito  ca  2000).,humans expressing a defective form of the transcription factor aire (autoimmune regulator) develop multiorgan autoimmune disease. we used aire- deficient mice to test the hypothesis that this transcription factor regulates autoimmunity by promoting the ectopic expression of peripheral tissue- restricted antigens in medullary epithelial cells of the thymus. this hypothesis proved correct. the mutant animals exhibited a defined profile of autoimmune diseases that depended on the absence of aire in stromal cells of the thymus. aire-deficient thymic medullary epithelial cells showed a specific reduction in ectopic transcription of genes encoding peripheral antigens. these findings highlight the importance of thymically imposed "central" tolerance in controlling autoimmunity.
2315,ribosomal dna copy number loss and sequence variation in cancer,ribosomal dna is one of the most variable regions in the human genome with respect to copy number. despite the importance of rdna for cellular function  we know virtually nothing about what governs its copy number  stability  and sequence in the mammalian genome due to challenges associated with mapping and analysis. we applied computational and droplet digital pcr approaches to measure rdna copy number in normal and cancer states in human and mouse genomes. we find that copy number and sequence can change in cancer genomes. counterintuitively  human cancer genomes show a loss of copies  accompanied by global copy number co-variation. the sequence can also be more variable in the cancer genome. cancer genomes with lower copies have mutational evidence of mtor hyperactivity. the pten phosphatase is a tumor suppressor that is critical for genome stability and a negative regulator of the mtor kinase pathway. surprisingly  but consistent with the human cancer genomes  hematopoietic cancer stem cells from a pten-/- mouse model for leukemia have lower rdna copy number than normal tissue  despite increased proliferation  rrna production  and protein synthesis. loss of copies occurs early and is associated with hypersensitivity to dna damage. therefore  copy loss is a recurrent feature in cancers associated with mtor activation. ribosomal dna copy number may be a simple and useful indicator of whether a cancer will be sensitive to dna damaging treatments.
2317,gene regulation by the act of long non-coding rna transcription,long non-protein-coding rnas (lncrnas) are proposed to be the largest transcript class in the mouse and human transcriptomes. two important questions are whether all lncrnas are functional and how they could exert a function. several lncrnas have been shown to function through their product  but this is not the only possible mode of action. in this review we focus on a role for the process of lncrna transcription  independent of the lncrna product  in regulating protein-coding-gene activity in cis. we discuss examples where lncrna transcription leads to gene silencing or activation  and describe strategies to determine if the lncrna product or its transcription causes the regulatory effect.
2319,paraneoplastic thrombocytosis: the secrets of tumor self-promotion.,paraneoplastic thrombocytosis is associated with many solid tumors and often correlates with reduced survival. recent studies suggest that a pathogenic feed back loop may be operative between platelets and tumor cells  with reciprocal interactions between tumor growth/metastasis and thrombocytosis/platelet activation. specific molecular pathways have been identified in which tumors can stimulate platelet production and activation; activated platelets can  in turn  promote tumor growth and metastasis. taken together  these findings provide exciting new potential targets for therapeutic intervention.
2321,inflammatory reaction as determinant of foreign body reaction is an early and susceptible event after mesh implantation,purpose to investigate and relate the ultrashort-term and long-term courses of determinants for foreign body reaction as biocompatibility predictors for meshes in an animal model. materials and methods three different meshes (tvt  ultrapro  and pvdf) were implanted in sheep. native and plasma coated meshes were placed bilaterally: (a) interaperitoneally  (b) as fascia onlay  and (c) as muscle onlay (fascia sublay). at 5 min  20 min  60 min  and 120 min meshes were explanted and histochemically investigated for inflammatory infiltrate  macrophage infiltration  vessel formation  myofibroblast invasion  and connective tissue accumulation. the results were related to long-term values over 24 months. results macrophage invasion reached highest extents with up to 60% in short-term and decreased within 24 months to about 30%. inflammatory infiltrate increased within the first 2 hours  the reached levels and the different extents and ranking among the investigated meshes remained stable during long-term follow up. for myofibroblasts  connective tissue  and cd31+ cells  no activity was detected during the first 120 min. conclusion the local inflammatory reaction is an early and susceptible event after mesh implantation. it cannot be influenced by prior plasma coating and does not depend on the localisation of implantation.
2323,alpha-synuclein induces lysosomal rupture and cathepsin dependent reactive oxygen species following endocytosis,α-synuclein dysregulation is a critical aspect of parkinson's disease pathology. recent studies have observed that α-synuclein aggregates are cytotoxic to cells in culture and that this toxicity can be spread between cells. however  the molecular mechanisms governing this cytotoxicity and spread are poorly characterized. recent studies of viruses and bacteria  which achieve their cytoplasmic entry by rupturing intracellular vesicles  have utilized the redistribution of galectin proteins as a tool to measure vesicle rupture by these organisms. using this approach  we demonstrate that α-synuclein aggregates can induce the rupture of lysosomes following their endocytosis in neuronal cell lines. this rupture can be induced by the addition of α-synuclein aggregates directly into cells as well as by cell-to-cell transfer of α-synuclein. we also observe that lysosomal rupture by α-synuclein induces a cathepsin b dependent increase in reactive oxygen species (ros) in target cells. finally  we observe that α-synuclein aggregates can induce inflammasome activation in thp-1 cells. lysosomal rupture is known to induce mitochondrial dysfunction and inflammation  both of which are well established aspects of parkinson's disease  thus connecting these aspects of parkinson's disease to the propagation of α-synuclein pathology in cells.
2325,inhibition of limb regeneration in the axolotl after treatment of the skin with actinomycin d.,in this experiment actinomycin d was used to explore the action of the wound epidermis on underlying tissues during limb regeneration. in axolotl forelimbs the skin was removed from the elbow to the shoulder. skin from the right limbs was soaked for three hours in actinomycin d (5.0 or 10.0 μg/ml 0.6% nacl). for controls  skin from left limbs was soaked in 0.6% nacl for the same period of time. each piece of skin was orthotopically replanted  and both limbs were amputated through the treated skin  proximal to the elbow. after an initial healing period  the control limbs regenerated normally. except for a slightly paler color  limbs bearing actinomycin-treated skin were indistinguishable from the controls  both grossly and histologically  during the first week following amputation. while the control limbs formed early blastemas  no grossly visible evidence of regeneration was apparent in the experimental limbs  but histologically some dedifferentiation was occurring. normally three to four digits were seen in the control regenerates before blastemas appeared on the experimental limbs. by 35–40 days blastemas had appeared on most experimental limbs. these developed very rapidly  and within a short time many of them had attained levels of development close to the controls. actinomycin d temporarily suppresses formation of the apical epidermal cap and the subsequent aggregation of dedifferentiated cells into a blastema. when the effect wears off  an apical cap forms and the dedifferentiated cells quickly organize into a blastema and begin to differentiate.
2327,ers/ests clinical guidelines on fitness for radical therapy in lung cancer patients (surgery and chemo-radiotherapy).,a collaboration of multidisciplinary experts on the functional evaluation of lung cancer patients has been facilitated by the european respiratory society (ers) and the european society of thoracic surgery (ests)  in order to draw up recommendations and provide clinicians with clear  up-to-date guidelines on fitness for surgery and chemo-radiotherapy. the subject was divided into different topics  which were then assigned to at least two experts. the authors searched the literature according to their own strategies  with no central literature review being performed. the draft reports written by the experts on each topic were reviewed  discussed and voted on by the entire expert panel. the evidence supporting each recommendation was summarised  and graded as described by the scottish intercollegiate guidelines network grading review group. clinical practice guidelines were generated and finalized in a functional algorithm for risk stratification of the lung resection candidates  emphasising cardiological evaluation  forced expiratory volume in 1 s  systematic carbon monoxide lung diffusion capacity and exercise testing. contrary to lung resection  for which the scientific evidences are more robust  we were unable to recommend any specific test  cut-off value  or algorithm before chemo-radiotherapy due to the lack of data. we recommend that lung cancer patients should be managed in specialised settings by multidisciplinary teams.
2329,a summary of the effects of antihypertensive medications on measured blood pressure.,background epidemiologic analysis of family data on blood pressure (bp) is often compromised by the effects of antihypertensive medications. a review of numerous clinical trials that investigated the effects of bp-lowering medications is summarized here. methods published clinical trials  including 137 clinical trials with monodrug therapies and 28 clinical trials of combination drug therapies with a total of 11 739 participants  were reviewed from pubmed. six major classes/groups of antihypertensive medications were categorized by ethnicity  including angiotensin-converting enzyme (ace) inhibitors  alpha1-blockers  cardioselective beta-blockers (beta1-blockers)  calcium channel blockers  thiazide and thiazide-like diuretics  and loop diuretics. results using sitting or supine bp  for ethnic groups combined  monodrug therapy with ace inhibitors showed a weighted average effect of lowering the systolic and diastolic bp by 12.5/9.5 mm hg; alpha1-blockers by 15.5/11.7 mm hg; beta1-blockers by 14.8/12.2 mm hg; calcium channel blockers by 15.3/10.5 mm hg; thiazide diuretics by 15.3/9.8 mm hg; and loop diuretics by 15.8/8.2 mm hg. however  ace inhibitors  alpha1-blockers  and beta1-blockers were less effective in african americans than in non-african americans  whereas calcium channel blockers  thiazide diuretics  and loop diuretics were more effective in african americans than in non-african americans. for two-drug combination therapy with ethnic groups combined  the bp-lowering effect of the second medication  when compared to its effect as monodrug therapy  was 84% and 65% for systolic and diastolic bp  respectively. conclusions the bp-lowering effects reported here may be used to impute the pretreatment bp levels  which can improve the information content and hence the power of epidemiologic analysis in studies where use of antihypertensive medications is a confounding factor in the bp measurements.
2331,divergent clonal evolution of castration resistant neuroendocrine prostate cancer,an increasingly recognized resistance mechanism to androgen receptor (ar)-directed therapy in prostate cancer involves epithelial plasticity  in which tumor cells demonstrate low to absent ar expression and often have neuroendocrine features. the etiology and molecular basis for this 'alternative' treatment-resistant cell state remain incompletely understood. here  by analyzing whole-exome sequencing data of metastatic biopsies from patients  we observed substantial genomic overlap between castration-resistant tumors that were histologically characterized as prostate adenocarcinomas (crpc-adeno) and neuroendocrine prostate cancer (crpc-ne); analysis of biopsy samples from the same individuals over time points to a model most consistent with divergent clonal evolution. genome-wide dna methylation analysis revealed marked epigenetic differences between crpc-ne tumors and crpc-adeno  and also designated samples of crpc-adeno with clinical features of ar independence as crpc-ne  suggesting that epigenetic modifiers may play a role in the induction and/or maintenance of this treatment-resistant state. this study supports the emergence of an alternative  'ar-indifferent' cell state through divergent clonal evolution as a mechanism of treatment resistance in advanced prostate cancer.
2333,e-cadherin engagement stimulates proliferation via rac1,e-cadherin has been linked to the suppression of tumor growth and the inhibition of cell proliferation in culture. we observed that progressively decreasing the seeding density of normal rat kidney-52e (nrk-52e) or mcf-10a epithelial cells from confluence  indeed  released cells from growth arrest. unexpectedly  a further decrease in seeding density so that cells were isolated from neighboring cells decreased proliferation. experiments using microengineered substrates showed that e-cadherin engagement stimulated the peak in proliferation at intermediate seeding densities  and that the proliferation arrest at high densities did not involve e-cadherin  but rather resulted from a crowding-dependent decrease in cell spreading against the underlying substrate. rac1 activity  which was induced by e-cadherin engagement specifically at intermediate seeding densities  was required for the cadherin-stimulated proliferation  and the control of rac1 activation by e-cadherin was mediated by p120-catenin. together  these findings demonstrate a stimulatory role for e-cadherin in proliferative regulation  and identify a simple mechanism by which cell–cell contact may trigger or inhibit epithelial cell proliferation in different settings.
2335,regulation of β-adrenergic receptor signaling by s-nitrosylation of g-protein-coupled receptor kinase 2,beta-adrenergic receptors (beta-ars)  prototypic g-protein-coupled receptors (gpcrs)  play a critical role in regulating numerous physiological processes. the gpcr kinases (grks) curtail g-protein signaling and target receptors for internalization. nitric oxide (no) and/or s-nitrosothiols (snos) can prevent the loss of beta-ar signaling in vivo  but the molecular details are unknown. here we show in mice that snos increase beta-ar expression and prevent agonist-stimulated receptor downregulation; and in cells  snos decrease grk2-mediated beta-ar phosphorylation and subsequent recruitment of beta-arrestin to the receptor  resulting in the attenuation of receptor desensitization and internalization. in both cells and tissues  grk2 is s-nitrosylated by snos as well as by no synthases  and grk2 s-nitrosylation increases following stimulation of multiple gpcrs with agonists. cys340 of grk2 is identified as a principal locus of inhibition by s-nitrosylation. our studies thus reveal a central molecular mechanism through which gpcr signaling is regulated.
2337,summary,the genetic diseases hutchinson-gilford progeria syndrome (hgps) and restrictive dermopathy (rd) arise from accumulation of farnesylated prelamin a because of defects in the lamin a maturation pathway. both of these diseases exhibit symptoms that can be viewed as accelerated aging. the mechanism by which accumulation of farnesylated prelamin a leads to these accelerated aging phenotypes is not understood. here we present evidence that in hgps and rd fibroblasts  dna damage checkpoints are persistently activated because of the compromise in genomic integrity. inactivation of checkpoint kinases ataxia-telangiectasia-mutated (atm) and atr (atm- and rad3-related) in these patient cells can partially overcome their early replication arrest. treatment of patient cells with a protein farnesyltransferase inhibitor (fti) did not result in reduction of dna double-strand breaks and damage checkpoint signaling  although the treatment significantly reversed the aberrant shape of their nuclei. this suggests that dna damage accumulation and aberrant nuclear morphology are independent phenotypes arising from prelamin a accumulation in these progeroid syndromes. since dna damage accumulation is an important contributor to the symptoms of hgps  our results call into question the possibility of treatment of hgps with ftis alone.
2339,expression profile of genes modulated by aloe emodin in human u87 glioblastoma cells.,glioblastoma  the most aggressive and malignant form of glioma  appears to be resistant to various chemotherapeutic agents. hence  approaches have been intensively investigated to targeti specific molecular pathways involved in glioblastoma development and progression. aloe emodin is believed to modulate the expression of several genes in cancer cells. we aimed to understand the molecular mechanisms underlying the therapeutic effect of aloe emodin on gene expression profiles in the human u87 glioblastoma cell line utilizing microarray technology. the gene expression analysis revealed that a total of 8 226 gene alterations out of 28 869 genes were detected after treatment with 58.6 μg/ml for 24 hours. out of this total  34 genes demonstrated statistically significant change (p<0.05) ranging from 1.07 to 1.87 fold. the results revealed that 22 genes were up-regulated and 12 genes were down-regulated in response to aloe emodin treatment. these genes were then grouped into several clusters based on their biological functions  revealing induction of expression of genes involved in apoptosis (programmed cell death) and tissue remodelling in u87 cells (p<0.01). several genes with significant changes of the expression level e.g. sharpin  bcap31  fis1  rac1 and tgm2 from the apoptotic cluster were confirmed by quantitative real-time pcr (qrt-pcr). these results could serve as guidance for further studies in order to discover molecular targets for the cancer therapy based on aloe emodin treatment.
2341,abnormal spine morphology and enhanced ltp in limk-1 knockout mice,in vitro studies indicate a role for the lim kinase family in the regulation of cofilin phosphorylation and actin dynamics. in addition  abnormal expression of limk-1 is associated with williams syndrome  a mental disorder with profound deficits in visuospatial cognition. however  the in vivo function of this family of kinases remains elusive. using limk-1 knockout mice  we demonstrate a significant role for limk-1 in vivo in regulating cofilin and the actin cytoskeleton. furthermore  we show that the knockout mice exhibited significant abnormalities in spine morphology and in synaptic function  including enhanced hippocampal long-term potentiation. the knockout mice also showed altered fear responses and spatial learning. these results indicate that limk-1 plays a critical role in dendritic spine morphogenesis and brain function.
2343,neurons derived from reprogrammed fibroblasts functionally integrate into the fetal brain and improve symptoms of rats with parkinson's disease.,the long-term goal of nuclear transfer or alternative reprogramming approaches is to create patient-specific donor cells for transplantation therapy  avoiding immunorejection  a major complication in current transplantation medicine. it was recently shown that the four transcription factors oct4  sox2  klf4  and c-myc induce pluripotency in mouse fibroblasts. however  the therapeutic potential of induced pluripotent stem (ips) cells for neural cell replacement strategies remained unexplored. here  we show that ips cells can be efficiently differentiated into neural precursor cells  giving rise to neuronal and glial cell types in culture. upon transplantation into the fetal mouse brain  the cells migrate into various brain regions and differentiate into glia and neurons  including glutamatergic  gabaergic  and catecholaminergic subtypes. electrophysiological recordings and morphological analysis demonstrated that the grafted neurons had mature neuronal activity and were functionally integrated in the host brain. furthermore  ips cells were induced to differentiate into dopamine neurons of midbrain character and were able to improve behavior in a rat model of parkinson's disease upon transplantation into the adult brain. we minimized the risk of tumor formation from the grafted cells by separating contaminating pluripotent cells and committed neural cells using fluorescence-activated cell sorting. our results demonstrate the therapeutic potential of directly reprogrammed fibroblasts for neuronal cell replacement in the animal model.
2345,salt-inducible kinase 2 links transcriptional coactivator p300 phosphorylation to the prevention of chrebp-dependent hepatic steatosis in mice.,obesity and type 2 diabetes are associated with increased lipogenesis in the liver. this results in fat accumulation in hepatocytes  a condition known as hepatic steatosis  which is a form of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (nafld)  the most common cause of liver dysfunction in the united states. carbohydrate-responsive element-binding protein (chrebp)  a transcriptional activator of glycolytic and lipogenic genes  has emerged as a major player in the development of hepatic steatosis in mice. however  the molecular mechanisms enhancing its transcriptional activity remain largely unknown. in this study  we have identified the histone acetyltransferase (hat) coactivator p300 and serine/threonine kinase salt-inducible kinase 2 (sik2) as key upstream regulators of chrebp activity. in cultured mouse hepatocytes  we showed that glucose-activated p300 acetylated chrebp on lys672 and increased its transcriptional activity by enhancing its recruitment to its target gene promoters. sik2 inhibited p300 hat activity by direct phosphorylation on ser89  which in turn decreased chrebp-mediated lipogenesis in hepatocytes and mice overexpressing sik2. moreover  both liver-specific sik2 knockdown and p300 overexpression resulted in hepatic steatosis  insulin resistance  and inflammation  phenotypes reversed by sik2/p300 co-overexpression. finally  in mouse models of type 2 diabetes and obesity  low sik2 activity was associated with increased p300 hat activity  chrebp hyperacetylation  and hepatic steatosis. our findings suggest that inhibition of hepatic p300 activity may be beneficial for treating hepatic steatosis in obesity and type 2 diabetes and identify sik2 activators and specific p300 inhibitors as potential targets for pharmaceutical intervention.
2347,molecular features of cellular reprogramming and development,differentiating somatic cells are progressively restricted to specialized functions during ontogeny  but they can be experimentally directed to form other cell types  including those with complete embryonic potential. early nuclear reprogramming methods  such as somatic cell nuclear transfer (scnt) and cell fusion  posed significant technical hurdles to precise dissection of the regulatory programmes governing cell identity. however  the discovery of reprogramming by ectopic expression of a defined set of transcription factors  known as direct reprogramming  provided a tractable platform to uncover molecular characteristics of cellular specification and differentiation  cell type stability and pluripotency. we discuss the control and maintenance of cellular identity during developmental transitions as they have been studied using direct reprogramming  with an emphasis on transcriptional and epigenetic regulation.
2349,nvp-bez235  a dual pi3k/mtor inhibitor  prevents pi3k signaling and inhibits the growth of cancer cells with activating pi3k mutations.,phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (pi3k) pathway deregulation is a common event in human cancer  either through inactivation of the tumor suppressor phosphatase and tensin homologue deleted from chromosome 10 or activating mutations of p110-alpha. these hotspot mutations result in oncogenic activity of the enzyme and contribute to therapeutic resistance to the anti-her2 antibody trastuzumab. the pi3k pathway is  therefore  an attractive target for cancer therapy. we have studied nvp-bez235  a dual inhibitor of the pi3k and the downstream mammalian target of rapamycin (mtor). nvp-bez235 inhibited the activation of the downstream effectors akt  s6 ribosomal protein  and 4ebp1 in breast cancer cells. the antiproliferative activity of nvp-bez235 was superior to the allosteric selective mtor complex inhibitor everolimus in a panel of 21 cancer cell lines of different origin and mutation status. the described akt activation due to mtor inhibition was prevented by higher doses of nvp-bez235. nvp-bez235 reversed the hyperactivation of the pi3k/mtor pathway caused by the oncogenic mutations of p110-alpha  e545k  and h1047r  and inhibited the proliferation of her2-amplified bt474 cells exogenously expressing these mutations that render them resistant to trastuzumab. in trastuzumab-resistant bt474 h1047r breast cancer xenografts  nvp-bez235 inhibited pi3k signaling and had potent antitumor activity. in treated animals  there was complete inhibition of pi3k signaling in the skin at pharmacologically active doses  suggesting that skin may serve as surrogate tissue for pharmacodynamic studies. in summary  nvp-bez235 inhibits the pi3k/mtor axis and results in antiproliferative and antitumoral activity in cancer cells with both wild-type and mutated p110-alpha.
2351,prevention of rectal shiv transmission in macaques by daily or intermittent prophylaxis with emtricitabine and tenofovir ,background in the absence of an effective vaccine  hiv continues to spread globally  emphasizing the need for novel strategies to limit its transmission. pre-exposure prophylaxis (prep) with antiretroviral drugs could prove to be an effective intervention strategy if highly efficacious and cost-effective prep modalities are identified. we evaluated daily and intermittent prep regimens of increasing antiviral activity in a macaque model that closely resembles human transmission. methods and findings we used a repeat-exposure macaque model with 14 weekly rectal virus challenges. three drug treatments were given once daily  each to a different group of six rhesus macaques. group 1 was treated subcutaneously with a human-equivalent dose of emtricitabine (ftc)  group 2 received orally the human-equivalent dosing of both ftc and tenofovir-disoproxil fumarate (tdf)  and group 3 received subcutaneously a similar dosing of ftc and a higher dose of tenofovir. a fourth group of six rhesus macaques (group 4) received intermittently a prep regimen similar to group 3 only 2 h before and 24 h after each weekly virus challenge. results were compared to 18 control macaques that did not receive any drug treatment. the risk of infection in macaques treated in groups 1 and 2 was 3.8- and 7.8-fold lower than in untreated macaques (p = 0.02 and p = 0.008  respectively). all six macaques in group 3 were protected. breakthrough infections had blunted acute viremias; drug resistance was seen in two of six animals. all six animals in group 4 that received intermittent prep were protected. conclusions this model suggests that single drugs for daily prep can be protective but a combination of antiretroviral drugs may be required to increase the level of protection. short but potent intermittent prep can provide protection comparable to that of daily prep in this shiv/macaque model. these findings support prep trials for hiv prevention in humans and identify promising prep modalities.
2353,variation in antibiotic prescribing and its impact on recovery in patients with acute cough in primary care: prospective study in 13 countries.,objective to describe variation in antibiotic prescribing for acute cough in contrasting european settings and the impact on recovery. design cross sectional observational study with clinicians from 14 primary care research networks in 13 european countries who recorded symptoms on presentation and management. patients followed up for 28 days with patient diaries. setting primary care. participants adults with a new or worsening cough or clinical presentation suggestive of lower respiratory tract infection. main outcome measures prescribing of antibiotics by clinicians and total symptom severity scores over time. results 3402 patients were recruited (clinicians completed a case report form for 99% (3368) of participants and 80% (2714) returned a symptom diary). mean symptom severity scores at presentation ranged from 19 (scale range 0 to 100) in networks based in spain and italy to 38 in the network based in sweden. antibiotic prescribing by networks ranged from 20% to nearly 90% (53% overall)  with wide variation in classes of antibiotics prescribed. amoxicillin was overall the most common antibiotic prescribed  but this ranged from 3% of antibiotics prescribed in the norwegian network to 83% in the english network. while fluoroquinolones were not prescribed at all in three networks  they were prescribed for 18% in the milan network. after adjustment for clinical presentation and demographics  considerable differences remained in antibiotic prescribing  ranging from norway (odds ratio 0.18  95% confidence interval 0.11 to 0.30) to slovakia (11.2  6.20 to 20.27) compared with the overall mean (proportion prescribed: 0.53). the rate of recovery was similar for patients who were and were not prescribed antibiotics (coefficient -0.01  p<0.01) once clinical presentation was taken into account. conclusions variation in clinical presentation does not explain the considerable variation in antibiotic prescribing for acute cough in europe. variation in antibiotic prescribing is not associated with clinically important differences in recovery. trial registration clinicaltrials.gov nct00353951.
2355,cineradiography of monkey lip-smacking reveals putative precursors of speech dynamics,a key feature of speech is its stereotypical 5 hz rhythm. one theory posits that this rhythm evolved through the modification of rhythmic facial movements in ancestral primates. if the hypothesis has any validity  then a comparative approach may shed some light. we tested this idea by using cineradiography (x-ray movies) to characterize and quantify the internal dynamics of the macaque monkey vocal tract during lip-smacking (a rhythmic facial expression) versus chewing. previous human studies showed that speech movements are faster than chewing movements  and the functional coordination between vocal tract structures is different between the two behaviors. if rhythmic speech evolved through a rhythmic ancestral facial movement  then one hypothesis is that monkey lip-smacking versus chewing should also exhibit these differences. we found that the lips  tongue  and hyoid move with a speech-like 5 hz rhythm during lip-smacking  but not during chewing. most importantly  the functional coordination between these structures was distinct for each behavior. these data provide empirical support for the idea that the human speech rhythm evolved from the rhythmic facial expressions of ancestral primates.
2357,the proto-oncogene c-maf is responsible for tissue-specific expression of interleukin-4,the molecular basis for the distinctive cytokine expression of cd4+ t helper 1 (th1) and t helper 2 (th2) subsets remains elusive. here  we report that the proto-oncogene c-maf  a basic region/leucine zipper transcription factor  controls tissue-specific expression of il-4. c-maf is expressed in th2 but not th1 clones and is induced during normal precursor cell differentiation along a th2 but not th1 lineage. c-maf binds to a c-maf response element (mare) in the proximal il-4 promoter adjacent to a site footprinted by extracts from th2 but not th1 clones. ectopic expression of c-maf transactivates the il-4 promoter in th1 cells  b cells  and nonlymphoid cells  a function that maps to the mare and th2-specific footprint. furthermore  c-maf acts in synergy with the nuclear factor of activated t cells (nf-atp) to initiate endogeneous il-4 production by b cells. manipulation of c-maf may alter th subset ratios in human disease.
2359,the antiretroviral therapy in lower income countries (art-linc) collaboration and art cohort collaboration (art-cc) groups summary,background highly active antiretroviral therapy (haart) is being scaled up in developing countries. we compared baseline characteristics and outcomes during the first year of haart between hiv-1-infected patients in low-income and high-income settings. methods 18 haart programmes in africa  asia  and south america (low-income settings) and 12 hiv cohort studies from europe and north america (high-income settings) provided data for 4810 and 22 217  respectively  treatment-naïve adult patients starting haart. all patients from high-income settings and 2725 (57%) patients from low-income settings were actively followed-up and included in survival analyses. findings compared with high-income countries  patients starting haart in low-income settings had lower cd4 cell counts (median 108 cells per mul vs 234 cells per mul)  were more likely to be female (51%vs 25%)  and more likely to start treatment with a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (nnrti) (70%vs 23%). at 6 months  the median number of cd4 cells gained (106 cells per mul vs 103 cells per mul) and the percentage of patients reaching hiv-1 rna levels lower than 500 copies/ml (76%vs 77%) were similar. mortality was higher in low-income settings (124 deaths during 2236 person-years of follow-up) than in high-income settings (414 deaths during 20 532 person-years). the adjusted hazard ratio (hr) of mortality comparing low-income with high-income settings fell from 4.3 (95% ci 1.6-11.8) during the first month to 1.5 (0.7-3.0) during months 7-12. the provision of treatment free of charge in low-income settings was associated with lower mortality (adjusted hr 0.23; 95% ci 0.08-0.61). interpretation patients starting haart in resource-poor settings have increased mortality rates in the first months on therapy  compared with those in developed countries. timely diagnosis and assessment of treatment eligibility  coupled with free provision of haart  might reduce this excess mortality.
2361,mammalian rad52 functions in break-induced replication repair of collapsed dna replication forks,human cancers are characterized by the presence of oncogene-induced dna replication stress (drs)  making them dependent on repair pathways such as break-induced replication (bir) for damaged dna replication forks. to better understand bir  we performed a targeted sirna screen for genes whose depletion inhibited g1 to s phase progression when oncogenic cyclin e was overexpressed. rad52  a gene dispensable for normal development in mice  was among the top hits. in cells in which fork collapse was induced by oncogenes or chemicals  the rad52 protein localized to drs foci. depletion of rad52 by sirna or knockout of the gene by crispr/cas9 compromised restart of collapsed forks and led to dna damage in cells experiencing drs. furthermore  in cancer-prone  heterozygous apc mutant mice  homozygous deletion of the rad52 gene suppressed tumor growth and prolonged lifespan. we therefore propose that mammalian rad52 facilitates repair of collapsed dna replication forks in cancer cells.
2363,how absolute is zero? an evaluation of historical and current definitions of malaria elimination,decisions to eliminate malaria from all or part of a country involve a complex set of factors  and this complexity is compounded by ambiguity surrounding some of the key terminology  most notably "control" and "elimination. " it is impossible to forecast resource and operational requirements accurately if endpoints have not been defined clearly  yet even during the global malaria eradication program  debate raged over the precise definition of "eradication. " analogous deliberations regarding the meaning of "elimination" and "control" are basically nonexistent today despite these terms' core importance to programme planning. to advance the contemporary debate about these issues  this paper presents a historical review of commonly used terms  including control  elimination  and eradication  to help contextualize current understanding of these concepts. the review has been supported by analysis of the underlying mathematical concepts on which these definitions are based through simple branching process models that describe the proliferation of malaria cases following importation. through this analysis  the importance of pragmatic definitions that are useful for providing malaria control and elimination programmes with a practical set of strategic milestones is emphasized  and it is argued that current conceptions of elimination in particular fail to achieve these requirements. to provide all countries with precise targets  new conceptual definitions are suggested to more precisely describe the old goals of "control" - here more exactly named "controlled low-endemic malaria" - and "elimination. " additionally  it is argued that a third state  called "controlled non-endemic malaria " is required to describe the epidemiological condition in which endemic transmission has been interrupted  but malaria resulting from onwards transmission from imported infections continues to occur at a sufficiently high level that elimination has not been achieved. finally  guidelines are discussed for deriving the separate operational definitions and metrics that will be required to make these concepts relevant  measurable  and achievable for a particular environment.
2365,the molecular basis for oat intolerance in patients with celiac disease,background  celiac disease is a small intestinal inflammatory disorder characterized by malabsorption  nutrient deficiency  and a range of clinical manifestations. it is caused by an inappropriate immune response to dietary gluten and is treated with a gluten-free diet. recent feeding studies have indicated oats to be safe for celiac disease patients  and oats are now often included in the celiac disease diet. this study aimed to investigate whether oat intolerance exists in celiac disease and to characterize the cells and processes underlying this intolerance. methods and findings  we selected for study nine adults with celiac disease who had a history of oats exposure. four of the patients had clinical symptoms on an oats-containing diet  and three of these four patients had intestinal inflammation typical of celiac disease at the time of oats exposure. we established oats-avenin-specific and -reactive intestinal t-cell lines from these three patients  as well as from two other patients who appeared to tolerate oats. the avenin-reactive t-cell lines recognized avenin peptides in the context of hla-dq2. these peptides have sequences rich in proline and glutamine residues closely resembling wheat gluten epitopes. deamidation (glutamine→glutamic acid conversion) by tissue transglutaminase was involved in the avenin epitope formation. conclusions  we conclude that some celiac disease patients have avenin-reactive mucosal t-cells that can cause mucosal inflammation. oat intolerance may be a reason for villous atrophy and inflammation in patients with celiac disease who are eating oats but otherwise are adhering to a strict gluten-free diet. clinical follow-up of celiac disease patients eating oats is advisable.
2367,camkii induces permeability transition through drp1 phosphorylation during chronic β-ar stimulation,mitochondrial permeability transition pore (mptp) is involved in cardiac dysfunction during chronic β-adrenergic receptor (β-ar) stimulation. the mechanism by which chronic β-ar stimulation leads to mptp openings is elusive. here  we show that chronic administration of isoproterenol (iso) persistently increases the frequency of mptp openings followed by mitochondrial damage and cardiac dysfunction. mechanistically  this effect is mediated by phosphorylation of mitochondrial fission protein  dynamin-related protein 1 (drp1)  by ca2+/calmodulin-dependent kinase ii (camkii) at a serine 616 (s616) site. mutating this phosphorylation site or inhibiting drp1 activity blocks camkii- or iso-induced mptp opening and myocyte death in vitro and rescues heart hypertrophy in vivo. in human failing hearts  drp1 phosphorylation at s616 is increased. these results uncover a pathway downstream of chronic β-ar stimulation that links camkii  drp1 and mptp to bridge cytosolic stress signal with mitochondrial dysfunction in the heart.
2369,the circadian factor period 2 modulates p53 stability and transcriptional activity in unstressed cells,human period 2 (hper2) is a transcriptional regulator at the core of the circadian clock mechanism that is responsible for generating the negative feedback loop that sustains the clock. its relevance to human disease is underlined by alterations in its function that affect numerous biochemical and physiological processes. when absent  it results in the development of various cancers and an increase in the cell's susceptibility to genotoxic stress. thus we sought to define a yet-uncharacterized checkpoint node in which circadian components integrate environmental stress signals to the dna-damage response. we found that hper2 binds the c-terminal half of human p53 (hp53) and forms a stable trimeric complex with hp53's negative regulator  mdm2. we determined that hper2 binding to hp53 prevents mdm2 from being ubiquitinated and targeting hp53 by the proteasome. down-regulation of hper2 expression directly affects hp53 levels  whereas its overexpression influences both hp53 protein stability and transcription of targeted genes. overall our findings place hper2 directly at the heart of the hp53-mediated response by ensuring that basal levels of hp53 are available to precondition the cell when a rapid  hp53-mediated  transcriptional response is needed.
2371,the glucocorticoid receptor inhibits,glucocorticoids repress nfkappab-mediated activation of proinflammatory genes such as interleukin-8 (il-8) and icam-1. our experiments suggest that the glucocorticoid receptor (gr) confers this effect by associating through protein-protein interactions with nfkappab bound at each of these genes. that is  we show that the gr zinc binding region (zbr)  which includes the dna binding and dimerization functions of the receptor  binds directly to the dimerization domain of the rela subunit of nfkappab in vitro and that the zbr is sufficient to associate with rela bound at nfkappab response elements in vivo. moreover  we demonstrate in vivo and in vitro that gr does not disrupt dna binding by nfkappab. in transient transfections  we found that the gr ligand binding domain is essential for repression of nfkappab but not for association with it and that gr can repress an nfkappab derivative bearing a heterologous activation domain. we used chromatin immunoprecipitation assays in untransfected a549 cells to infer the mechanism by which the tethered gr represses nfkappab-activated transcription. as expected  we found that the inflammatory signal tnfalpha stimulated preinitiation complex (pic) assembly at the il-8 and icam-1 promoters and that the largest subunit of rna polymerase ii (pol ii) in those complexes became phosphorylated at serines 2 and 5 in its carboxy-terminal domain (ctd) heptapeptide repeats (ysptsps); these modifications are required for transcription initiation. remarkably  gr did not inhibit pic assembly under repressing conditions  but rather interfered with phosphorylation of serine 2 of the pol ii ctd.
2373,management of hepatitis c disease among va patients with schizophrenia and substance use disorders.,objective rates of hepatitis c (hcv) infection  testing  and treatment were compared among patients with schizophrenia  a substance use disorder  or co-occurring schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder and a substance use disorder and a control group. methods information about 293 445 patients of the northwest veterans healthcare administration was obtained. results the substance use disorder group constituted 13.6 percent of the sample; the schizophrenia group  1.6 percent; and the co-occurring-disorders group  1.4 percent. respectively  these groups were approximately four  two  and six times as likely as the control group to receive hcv testing and about seven  two  and eight times as likely to be infected. the rate of interferon (ifn) therapy was significantly lower for the substance use group and the group with co-occurring disorders. however  the magnitude of the differences was not substantial  suggesting that these high-risk groups were not excluded from ifn therapy.
2375,high-resolution phenotypic profiling defines genes essential for mycobacterial growth and cholesterol catabolism,the pathways that comprise cellular metabolism are highly interconnected  and alterations in individual enzymes can have far-reaching effects. as a result  global profiling methods that measure gene expression are of limited value in predicting how the loss of an individual function will affect the cell. in this work  we employed a new method of global phenotypic profiling to directly define the genes required for the growth of mycobacterium tuberculosis. a combination of high-density mutagenesis and deep-sequencing was used to characterize the composition of complex mutant libraries exposed to different conditions. this allowed the unambiguous identification of the genes that are essential for mtb to grow in vitro  and proved to be a significant improvement over previous approaches. to further explore functions that are required for persistence in the host  we defined the pathways necessary for the utilization of cholesterol  a critical carbon source during infection. few of the genes we identified had previously been implicated in this adaptation by transcriptional profiling  and only a fraction were encoded in the chromosomal region known to encode sterol catabolic functions. these genes comprise an unexpectedly large percentage of those previously shown to be required for bacterial growth in mouse tissue. thus  this single nutritional change accounts for a significant fraction of the adaption to the host. this work provides the most comprehensive genetic characterization of a sterol catabolic pathway to date  suggests putative roles for uncharacterized virulence genes  and precisely maps genes encoding potential drug targets.
2377,myeloid-specific krüppel-like factor 2 inactivation increases macrophage and neutrophil adhesion and promotes atherosclerosis.,rationale hemizygous deficiency of the transcription factor krüppel-like factor 2 (klf2) has been shown previously to augment atherosclerosis in hypercholesterolemic mice. however  the cell type responsible for the increased atherosclerosis due to klf2 deficiency has not been identified. this study examined the consequence of myeloid cell-specific klf2 inactivation in atherosclerosis. methods and results cell-specific knockout mice were generated by cre/loxp recombination. macrophages isolated from myeloid-specific klf2 knockout (myeklf2(-/-)) mice were similar to myeklf2(+/+) macrophages in response to activation  polarization  and lipid accumulation. however  in comparison to myeklf2(+/+) macrophages  myeklf2(-/-) macrophages adhered more robustly to endothelial cells. neutrophils from myeklf2(-/-) mice also adhered more robustly to endothelial cells  and fewer myeklf2(-/-) neutrophils survived in culture over a 24-hour period in comparison with myeklf2(+/+) neutrophils. when myeklf2(-/-) mice were mated to ldlr(-/-) mice and then fed a high fat and high cholesterol diet  significant increase in atherosclerosis was observed in the myeklf2(-/-)ldlr(-/-) mice compared with myeklf2(+/+)ldlr(-/-) littermates. the increased atherosclerosis in myeklf2(-/-)ldlr(-/-) mice was associated with elevated presence of neutrophils and macrophages  with corresponding increase of myeloperoxidase as well as chlorinated and nitrosylated tyrosine epitopes in their lesion areas compared with myeklf2(+/+)ldlr(-/-) mice. conclusions this study documents a role for myeloid klf2 expression in modulating atherosclerosis. the increased neutrophil accumulation and atherosclerosis progression with myeloid-specific klf2 deficiency also underscores the importance of neutrophils in promoting vascular oxidative stress and atherosclerosis. collectively  these results suggest that elevating klf2 expression may be a novel strategy for prevention and treatment of atherosclerosis.
2379,potentiation of nmda currents by pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide in neonatal rat sympathetic preganglionic neurons.,whole cell patch-clamp recordings were made from sympathetic preganglionic neurons (spns) in the intermediolateral cell column of thoracolumbar spinal cord slices of 12- to 16-day-old rats  and the effects of pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide (pacap)-38 on n-methyl-d-aspartate (nmda)- and kainate (ka)-induced inward currents were examined. pacap  in concentrations (10-30 nm) that caused no significant change of holding currents  reversibly increased nmda-induced currents but not ka-induced currents. at higher concentrations (>30 nm)  the peptide produced a sustained inward current. the potentiating effect of pacap was nullified by prior incubation of the slices with the adenylate cyclase inhibitor mdl-12 330a (25 microm). further  superfusing the slices with the membrane-permeable cyclic amp analogue n6 2'-o-dibutyryladenosine 3':5'-cyclic monophosphate (100-300 microm) in the presence of the phosphodiesterase inhibitor 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine (700 microm) increased the nmda currents. this result suggests that pacap selectively increases nmda-receptor-mediated responses in the rat spns  probably via a cyclic-amp-dependent mechanism  providing evidence that the peptide may be involved in synaptic plasticity.
2381,congruent visual speech enhances cortical entrainment to continuous auditory speech in noise-free conditions.,unlabelled congruent audiovisual speech enhances our ability to comprehend a speaker  even in noise-free conditions. when incongruent auditory and visual information is presented concurrently  it can hinder a listener's perception and even cause him or her to perceive information that was not presented in either modality. efforts to investigate the neural basis of these effects have often focused on the special case of discrete audiovisual syllables that are spatially and temporally congruent  with less work done on the case of natural  continuous speech. recent electrophysiological studies have demonstrated that cortical response measures to continuous auditory speech can be easily obtained using multivariate analysis methods. here  we apply such methods to the case of audiovisual speech and  importantly  present a novel framework for indexing multisensory integration in the context of continuous speech. specifically  we examine how the temporal and contextual congruency of ongoing audiovisual speech affects the cortical encoding of the speech envelope in humans using electroencephalography. we demonstrate that the cortical representation of the speech envelope is enhanced by the presentation of congruent audiovisual speech in noise-free conditions. furthermore  we show that this is likely attributable to the contribution of neural generators that are not particularly active during unimodal stimulation and that it is most prominent at the temporal scale corresponding to syllabic rate (2-6 hz). finally  our data suggest that neural entrainment to the speech envelope is inhibited when the auditory and visual streams are incongruent both temporally and contextually. significance statement seeing a speaker's face as he or she talks can greatly help in understanding what the speaker is saying. this is because the speaker's facial movements relay information about what the speaker is saying  but also  importantly  when the speaker is saying it. studying how the brain uses this timing relationship to combine information from continuous auditory and visual speech has traditionally been methodologically difficult. here we introduce a new approach for doing this using relatively inexpensive and noninvasive scalp recordings. specifically  we show that the brain's representation of auditory speech is enhanced when the accompanying visual speech signal shares the same timing. furthermore  we show that this enhancement is most pronounced at a time scale that corresponds to mean syllable length.
2383,p63 regulates adult neural precursor and newly born neuron survival to control hippocampal-dependent behavior.,the molecular mechanisms that regulate adult neural precursor cell (npc) survival  and thus maintain adult neurogenesis  are not well defined. here  we investigate the role of p63  a p53 family member  in adult npc function in mice. conditional ablation of p63 in adult npcs or p63 haploinsufficiency led to reduced numbers of npcs and newborn neurons in the neurogenic zones of the hippocampus and lateral ventricles and in the olfactory bulb. these reductions were attributable to enhanced apoptosis of npcs and newborn neurons and were rescued by inhibition of caspase activity  p53  or the p53 apoptotic effector puma (p53-upregulated modulator of apoptosis). moreover  these cellular deficits were functionally important because they led to perturbations in hippocampus-dependent memory formation. these results indicate that p63 regulates the numbers of adult npcs and adult-born neurons as well as neural stem cell-dependent cognitive functions  and that it does so  at least in part  by inhibiting p53-dependent cell death.
2385,effects of gc bias in next-generation-sequencing data on de novo genome assembly,next-generation-sequencing (ngs) has revolutionized the field of genome assembly because of its much higher data throughput and much lower cost compared with traditional sanger sequencing. however  ngs poses new computational challenges to de novo genome assembly. among the challenges  gc bias in ngs data is known to aggravate genome assembly. however  it is not clear to what extent gc bias affects genome assembly in general. in this work  we conduct a systematic analysis on the effects of gc bias on genome assembly. our analyses reveal that gc bias only lowers assembly completeness when the degree of gc bias is above a threshold. at a strong gc bias  the assembly fragmentation due to gc bias can be explained by the low coverage of reads in the gc-poor or gc-rich regions of a genome. this effect is observed for all the assemblers under study. increasing the total amount of ngs data thus rescues the assembly fragmentation because of gc bias. however  the amount of data needed for a full rescue depends on the distribution of gc contents. both low and high coverage depths due to gc bias lower the accuracy of assembly. these pieces of information provide guidance toward a better de novo genome assembly in the presence of gc bias.
2387,role of chicken melanoma differentiation-associated gene 5 in induction and activation of innate and adaptive immune responses to infectious bursal disease virus in cultured macrophages,the objective of the present study was to determine if chicken melanoma-differentiation-associated gene 5 (mda5) senses infectious bursal disease virus infection to induce innate immunity that bridges to adaptive immunity. during ibdv infection in hd11 cells  ibdv titers and rna loads increased up to 3.4 × 107 plaque-forming units (pfu)/ml and 1114 ng/µl  respectively  at 24 hours postinfection (hpi). ibdv infection in hd11 cells induced significantly upregulated (p < 0.05) expression levels of chicken mda5 (59-fold)  interferon-β (ifn-β) (693-fold)  dsrna-dependent protein kinase (pkr) (4-fold)  2’  5’-oligoadenylate synthetase (oas) (286-fold)  myxovirus resistance gene (mx) (22-fold)  interleukin-1β (il-1β) (5-fold)  il-6 (146-fold)  il-8 (4-fold)  il-10 (4-fold)  inducible nitric oxide synthase (inos) (15-fold)  and major histocompatibility complex class i (mhc class i) (4-fold). nitric oxide production in the culture supernatants increased significantly (p < 0.05) up to 6.5 μm at 24 hpi. the expressed chmda5 and ibdv-derived dsrna were localized in the cytoplasm of hd11 cells during ibdv infection. chmda5-knockdown hd11 cells had significantly higher (p < 0.05) ibdv rna loads at 24 hpi and significantly lower (p < 0.05) nitric oxide production and expression levels of chicken mda5  ifn-β  pkr  oas  mx  il-1β  il-6  il-8  il-12(p40)  il-18  il-10  inos  mhc class i and cd86 at 24 hpi. in addition  chmda5 overexpression in hd11 cells resulted in significantly reduced (p < 0.05) ibdv titers and rna loads and significantly increased (p < 0.05) nitric oxide production at 16 and 24 hpi. it also resulted in significantly higher (p < 0.05) expression levels of chicken mda5  ifn-β  pkr  oas  mx  il-1β  il-6  il-8  il-12(p40)  il-10 and inos at 2 hpi. in conclusion  the results indicate that chmda5 senses ibdv infection in chicken macrophages  and this is associated with ibdv-induced expression of ifn-β and initiation of an innate immune response that in turn activates the adaptive immune response and limits ibdv replication.
2389,mutations in the nuclear bile acid receptor fxr cause progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis,neonatal cholestasis is a potentially life-threatening condition requiring prompt diagnosis. mutations in several different genes can cause progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis  but known genes cannot account for all familial cases. here we report four individuals from two unrelated families with neonatal cholestasis and mutations in nr1h4  which encodes the farnesoid x receptor (fxr)  a bile acid-activated nuclear hormone receptor that regulates bile acid metabolism. clinical features of severe  persistent nr1h4-related cholestasis include neonatal onset with rapid progression to end-stage liver disease  vitamin k-independent coagulopathy  low-to-normal serum gamma-glutamyl transferase activity  elevated serum alpha-fetoprotein and undetectable liver bile salt export pump (abcb11) expression. our findings demonstrate a pivotal function for fxr in bile acid homeostasis and liver protection.
2391,blood monocytes consist of two principal subsets with distinct migratory properties,peripheral blood monocytes are a heterogeneous population of circulating leukocytes. using a murine adoptive transfer system to probe monocyte homing and differentiation in vivo  we identified two functional subsets among murine blood monocytes: a short-lived cx(3)cr1(lo)ccr2(+)gr1(+) subset that is actively recruited to inflamed tissues and a cx(3)cr1(hi)ccr2(-)gr1(-) subset characterized by cx(3)cr1-dependent recruitment to noninflamed tissues. both subsets have the potential to differentiate into dendritic cells in vivo. the level of cx(3)cr1 expression also defines the two major human monocyte subsets  the cd14(+)cd16(-) and cd14(lo)cd16(+) monocytes  which share phenotype and homing potential with the mouse subsets. these findings raise the potential for novel therapeutic strategies in inflammatory diseases.
2393,a conserved mst-foxo signaling pathway mediates oxidative-stress responses and extends life span,oxidative stress influences cell survival and homeostasis  but the mechanisms underlying the biological effects of oxidative stress remain to be elucidated. here  we demonstrate that the protein kinase mst1 mediates oxidative-stress-induced cell death in primary mammalian neurons by directly activating the foxo transcription factors. mst1 phosphorylates foxo proteins at a conserved site within the forkhead domain that disrupts their interaction with 14-3-3 proteins  promotes foxo nuclear translocation  and thereby induces cell death in neurons. we also extend the mst-foxo signaling link to nematodes. knockdown of the c. elegans mst1 ortholog cst-1 shortens life span and accelerates tissue aging  while overexpression of cst-1 promotes life span and delays aging. the cst-1-induced life-span extension occurs in a daf-16-dependent manner. the identification of the foxo transcription factors as major and evolutionarily conserved targets of mst1 suggests that mst kinases play important roles in diverse biological processes including cellular responses to oxidative stress and longevity.
2395,kynurenic acid is a nutritional cue that enables behavioral plasticity,the kynurenine pathway of tryptophan metabolism is involved in the pathogenesis of several brain diseases  but its physiological functions remain unclear. we report that kynurenic acid  a metabolite in this pathway  functions as a regulator of food-dependent behavioral plasticity in c. elegans. the experience of fasting in c. elegans alters a variety of behaviors  including feeding rate  when food is encountered post-fast. levels of neurally produced kynurenic acid are depleted by fasting  leading to activation of nmda-receptor-expressing interneurons and initiation of a neuropeptide-y-like signaling axis that promotes elevated feeding through enhanced serotonin release when animals re-encounter food. upon refeeding  kynurenic acid levels are eventually replenished  ending the elevated feeding period. because tryptophan is an essential amino acid  these findings suggest that a physiological role of kynurenic acid is in directly linking metabolism to activity of nmda and serotonergic circuits  which regulate a broad range of behaviors and physiologies.
2397,experimental and theoretical approaches to conscious processing,recent experimental studies and theoretical models have begun to address the challenge of establishing a causal link between subjective conscious experience and measurable neuronal activity. the present review focuses on the well-delimited issue of how an external or internal piece of information goes beyond nonconscious processing and gains access to conscious processing  a transition characterized by the existence of a reportable subjective experience. converging neuroimaging and neurophysiological data  acquired during minimal experimental contrasts between conscious and nonconscious processing  point to objective neural measures of conscious access: late amplification of relevant sensory activity  long-distance cortico-cortical synchronization at beta and gamma frequencies  and "ignition" of a large-scale prefronto-parietal network. we compare these findings to current theoretical models of conscious processing  including the global neuronal workspace (gnw) model according to which conscious access occurs when incoming information is made globally available to multiple brain systems through a network of neurons with long-range axons densely distributed in prefrontal  parieto-temporal  and cingulate cortices. the clinical implications of these results for general anesthesia  coma  vegetative state  and schizophrenia are discussed.
2399,influence of steroid hormone signaling on life span control by caenorhabditis elegans insulin-like signaling,sterol-sensing nuclear receptors and insulin-like growth factor signaling play evolutionarily conserved roles in the control of aging. in the nematode caenorhabditis elegans  bile acid-like steroid hormones known as dafachronic acids (das) influence longevity by binding to and regulating the activity of the conserved nuclear receptor daf-12  and the insulin receptor (insr) ortholog daf-2 controls life span by inhibiting the foxo transcription factor daf-16. how the da/daf-12 pathway interacts with daf-2/insr signaling to control life span is poorly understood. here we specifically investigated the roles of liganded and unliganded daf-12 in life span control in the context of reduced daf-2/insr signaling. in animals with reduced daf-2/insr activity  mutations that either reduce da biosynthesis or fully abrogate daf-12 activity shorten life span  suggesting that liganded daf-12 promotes longevity. in animals with reduced daf-2/insr activity induced by daf-2/insr rnai  both liganded and unliganded daf-12 promote longevity. however  in daf-2/insr mutants  liganded and unliganded daf-12 act in opposition to control life span. thus  multiple daf-12 activities influence life span in distinct ways in contexts of reduced daf-2/insr signaling. our findings establish new roles for a conserved steroid signaling pathway in life span control and elucidate interactions among da biosynthetic pathways  daf-12  and daf-2/insr signaling in aging.
2401,reprogramming factor expression initiates widespread targeted chromatin remodeling.,despite rapid progress in characterizing transcription factor-driven reprogramming of somatic cells to an induced pluripotent stem cell (ipsc) state  many mechanistic questions still remain. to gain insight into the earliest events in the reprogramming process  we systematically analyzed the transcriptional and epigenetic changes that occur during early factor induction after discrete numbers of divisions. we observed rapid  genome-wide changes in the euchromatic histone modification  h3k4me2  at more than a thousand loci including large subsets of pluripotency-related or developmentally regulated gene promoters and enhancers. in contrast  patterns of the repressive h3k27me3 modification remained largely unchanged except for focused depletion specifically at positions where h3k4 methylation is gained. these chromatin regulatory events precede transcriptional changes within the corresponding loci. our data provide evidence for an early  organized  and population-wide epigenetic response to ectopic reprogramming factors that clarify the temporal order through which somatic identity is reset during reprogramming.
2403,microrna regulation of cbx7 mediates a switch of polycomb orthologs during esc differentiation,the polycomb group (pcg) of chromatin modifiers regulates pluripotency and differentiation. mammalian genomes encode multiple homologs of the polycomb repressive complex 1 (prc1) components  including five orthologs of the drosophila polycomb protein (cbx2  cbx4  cbx6  cbx7  and cbx8). we have identified cbx7 as the primary polycomb ortholog of prc1 complexes in embryonic stem cells (escs). the expression of cbx7 is downregulated during esc differentiation  preceding the upregulation of cbx2  cbx4  and cbx8  which are directly repressed by cbx7. ectopic expression of cbx7 inhibits differentiation and x chromosome inactivation and enhances esc self-renewal. conversely  cbx7 knockdown induces differentiation and derepresses lineage-specific markers. in a functional screen  we identified the mir-125 and mir-181 families as regulators of cbx7 that are induced during esc differentiation. ectopic expression of these mirnas accelerates esc differentiation via regulation of cbx7. these observations establish a critical role for cbx7 and its regulatory mirnas in determining pluripotency.
2405,a talin-dependent lfa-1 focal zone is formed by rapidly migrating t lymphocytes,cells such as fibroblasts and endothelial cells migrate through the coordinated responses of discrete integrin-containing focal adhesions and complexes. in contrast  little is known about the organization of integrins on the highly motile t lymphocyte. we have investigated the distribution  activity  and cytoskeletal linkage of the integrin lymphocyte function associated antigen-1 (lfa-1) on human t lymphocytes migrating on endothelial cells and on ligand intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (icam-1). the pattern of total lfa-1 varies from low expression in the lamellipodia to high expression in the uropod. however  high affinity  clustered lfa-1 is restricted to a mid-cell zone that remains stable over time and over a range of icam-1 densities. talin is essential for the stability and formation of the lfa-1 zone. disruption of the talin–integrin link leads to loss of zone integrity and a substantial decrease in speed of migration on icam-1. this adhesive structure  which differs from the previously described integrin-containing attachments displayed by many other cell types  we have termed the “focal zone. ”
2407,functional consequences of splicing of the antisense transcript coolair on flc transcription,antisense transcription is widespread in many genomes; however  how much is functional is hotly debated. we are investigating functionality of a set of long noncoding antisense transcripts  collectively called coolair  produced at arabidopsis flowering locus c (flc). coolair initiates just downstream of the major sense transcript poly(a) site and terminates either early or extends into the flc promoter region. we now show that splicing of coolair is functionally important. this was revealed through analysis of a hypomorphic mutation in the core spliceosome component prp8. the prp8 mutation perturbs a cotranscriptional feedback mechanism linking coolair processing to flc gene body histone demethylation and reduced flc transcription. the importance of coolair splicing in this repression mechanism was confirmed by disrupting coolair production and mutating the coolair proximal splice acceptor site. our findings suggest that altered splicing of a long noncoding transcript can quantitatively modulate gene expression through cotranscriptional coupling mechanisms.
2409,a phase i study of pf-04449913  an oral hedgehog inhibitor  in patients with advanced solid tumors.,purpose to estimate the maximum tolerated dose (mtd) of single-agent pf-04449913  and to evaluate safety  tolerability  pharmacokinetics  pharmacodynamics  and preliminary antitumor activity in patients with advanced tumors. experimental design a 3+3 design was used in this open-label  multicenter  phase i study and dose escalation/de-escalation applied until identification of the mtd. pf-04449913 was orally administered once daily in continuous 28-day treatment cycles. the starting dose was 80 mg. results a total of 23 patients were enrolled; 19 were evaluable for first-cycle dose-limiting toxicity (dlt). the first-cycle dlt rate at the 640 mg dose level was 33.3%  and the mtd was estimated to be 320 mg once daily. the recommended phase ii dose was not determined. pf-04449913 was generally well tolerated at doses of 80 to 320 mg once daily. the most common treatment-related adverse events (ae) were grade 1-2 dysgeusia  fatigue  decreased appetite  nausea  dizziness  dehydration  and diarrhea. treatment-related grade 3 aes only occurred in patients receiving pf-04449913 640 mg once daily. no treatment-related grade 4-5 aes were reported. pharmacokinetic analysis indicated a generally dose-proportional kinetics with biphasic elimination  supporting once-daily dosing. pf-04449913 modulated hedgehog signaling at the dose levels tested  as demonstrated by >80% downregulation of gli1 expression in the skin of treated patients. eight patients (34.8%) achieved stable disease; none had complete or partial response. three patients with disease progression at enrollment had prolonged disease stabilization (≥6 months). conclusions the results obtained in this study support further evaluation of pf-04449913 in patients with advanced solid tumors.
2411,tlr-activated b cells suppress t cell-mediated autoimmunity.,tlr sense microbial infections  and control activation of immune responses. dendritic cells  macrophages  and b lymphocytes express tlr and the tlr-signaling adaptor protein myd88. the impact of tlr-activated b cells on t cell-mediated inflammation is unknown. in this study  we have used mice carrying b cell-restricted deficiencies in myd88 or in distinct tlr to examine the impact of tlr-activated b cells on a t cell-mediated autoimmune disease  experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (eae). we demonstrate that tlr-signaling in b cells suppresses inflammatory t cell responses (both th1 and th17)  and stimulates recovery from eae. only certain tlr are required on b cells for resolution of eae  and these are dispensable for disease initiation  indicating that a category of tlr agonists preferentially triggers a suppressive function in b cells and thereby limits autoimmune disease. the tlr agonists controlling the regulatory function of b cells are provided by components of mycobacterium tuberculosis present in the adjuvant. thus  myd88 signaling in b cells antagonizes myd88 signaling in other cells  which drives differentiation of th17 cells and is required for induction of eae. altogether  our data indicate that b cells link recognition of microbial products via tlr to suppression of a t cell-mediated autoimmune disease.
2413,a framework for improving microrna prediction in non-human genomes,the prediction of novel pre-microrna (mirna) from genomic sequence has received considerable attention recently. however  the majority of studies have focused on the human genome. previous studies have demonstrated that sensitivity (correctly detecting true mirna) is sustained when human-trained methods are applied to other species  however they have failed to report the dramatic drop in specificity (the ability to correctly reject non-mirna sequences) in non-human genomes. considering the ratio of true mirna sequences to pseudo-mirna sequences is on the order of 1:1000  such low specificity prevents the application of most existing tools to non-human genomes  as the number of false positives overwhelms the true predictions. we here introduce a framework (smirp) for creating species-specific mirna prediction systems  leveraging sequence conservation and phylogenetic distance information. substantial improvements in specificity and precision are obtained for four non-human test species when our framework is applied to three different prediction systems representing two types of classifiers (support vector machine and random forest)  based on three different feature sets  with both human-specific and taxon-wide training data. the smirp framework is potentially applicable to all mirna prediction systems and we expect substantial improvement in precision and specificity  while sustaining sensitivity  independent of the machine learning technique chosen.
2415,enhancer evolution across 20 mammalian species,the mammalian radiation has corresponded with rapid changes in noncoding regions of the genome  but we lack a comprehensive understanding of regulatory evolution in mammals. here  we track the evolution of promoters and enhancers active in liver across 20 mammalian species from six diverse orders by profiling genomic enrichment of h3k27 acetylation and h3k4 trimethylation. we report that rapid evolution of enhancers is a universal feature of mammalian genomes. most of the recently evolved enhancers arise from ancestral dna exaptation  rather than lineage-specific expansions of repeat elements. in contrast  almost all liver promoters are partially or fully conserved across these species. our data further reveal that recently evolved enhancers can be associated with genes under positive selection  demonstrating the power of this approach for annotating regulatory adaptations in genomic sequences. these results provide important insight into the functional genetics underpinning mammalian regulatory evolution.
2417,the assessment of the prognostic value of tumor markers and cytokines as sccag  cyfra 21.1  il-6  vegf and stnf receptors in patients with squamous cell cervical cancer  particularly with early stage of the disease,the aim of this study is to determine the prognostic value of tumor markers  as squamous cell carcinoma antigen (sccag) and cytokeratin-19 fragment (cyfra 21.1) and interleukin 6 (il-6)  vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf)  soluble tumor necrosis factor receptor i (stnf ri)  and stnf rii in patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix. the subjects of analysis were 138 patients with stage i-iva according to the international federation of gynecology and obstetrics (figo) classification. the collected research material comes from one oncology center. during the 10 years of follow-up  56 relapses and 53 deaths were observed  and recurrent disease in early stage was confirmed in 45 % of patients. the pretreatment serum levels of sccag and cyfra 21.1  and cytokines il-6  vegf  stnf ri  and stnf rii were determined in all patients. the probability of disease-free survival (dfs) and overall survival (os) was evaluated using the log-rank test and the cox regression model. based on the roc curve analysis for patients with recurrence  the largest area under the curve was demonstrated for sccag and il-6 and for patients who died  for sccag and vegf. cox analysis demonstrated that independent prognostic factor for dfs was only sccag and for os cytokine il-6 and sccag  but in patients with early stage the prognostic value for dfs was vegf  whereas il-6 and cyfra 21.1 for os. serum level of vegf  cyfra 21.1 and il-6 before treatment in patients with early stage cervical cancer appears to be an important prognostic factor.
2419,dementia incidence and mortality in middle-income countries  and associations with indicators of cognitive reserve: a 10/66 dementia research group population-based cohort study,background results of the few cohort studies from countries with low incomes or middle incomes suggest a lower incidence of dementia than in high-income countries. we assessed incidence of dementia according to criteria from the 10/66 dementia research group and diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders (dsm) iv  the effect of dementia at baseline on mortality  and the independent effects of age  sex  socioeconomic position  and indicators of cognitive reserve. methods we did a population-based cohort study of all people aged 65 years and older living in urban sites in cuba  the dominican republic  and venezuela  and rural and urban sites in peru  mexico  and china  with ascertainment of incident 10/66 and dsm-iv dementia 3-5 years after cohort inception. we used questionnaires to obtain information about age in years  sex  educational level  literacy  occupational attainment  and number of household assets. we obtained information about mortality from all sites. for participants who had died  we interviewed a friend or relative to ascertain the likelihood that they had dementia before death. findings 12 887 participants were interviewed at baseline. 11 718 were free of dementia  of whom 8137 (69%) were reinterviewed  contributing 34 718 person-years of follow-up. incidence for 10/66 dementia varied between 18·2 and 30·4 per 1000 person-years  and were 1·4-2·7 times higher than were those for dsm-iv dementia (9·9-15·7 per 1000 person-years). mortality hazards were 1·56-5·69 times higher in individuals with dementia at baseline than in those who were dementia-free. informant reports suggested a high incidence of dementia before death; overall incidence might be 4-19% higher if these data were included. 10/66 dementia incidence was independently associated with increased age (hr 1·67; 95% ci 1·56-1·79)  female sex (0·72; 0·61-0·84)  and low education (0·89; 0·81-0·97)  but not with occupational attainment (1·04; 0·95-1·13). interpretation our results provide supportive evidence for the cognitive reserve hypothesis  showing that in middle-income countries as in high-income countries  education  literacy  verbal fluency  and motor sequencing confer substantial protection against the onset of dementia. funding wellcome trust health consequences of population change programme  who  us alzheimer's association  fonacit/ cdch/ ucv.
2421,risk of cancer after low doses of ionising radiation: retrospective cohort study in 15 countries.,objectives to provide direct estimates of risk of cancer after protracted low doses of ionising radiation and to strengthen the scientific basis of radiation protection standards for environmental  occupational  and medical diagnostic exposures. design multinational retrospective cohort study of cancer mortality. setting cohorts of workers in the nuclear industry in 15 countries. participants 407 391 workers individually monitored for external radiation with a total follow-up of 5.2 million person years. main outcome measurements estimates of excess relative risks per sievert (sv) of radiation dose for mortality from cancers other than leukaemia and from leukaemia excluding chronic lymphocytic leukaemia  the main causes of death considered by radiation protection authorities. results the excess relative risk for cancers other than leukaemia was 0.97 per sv  95% confidence interval 0.14 to 1.97. analyses of causes of death related or unrelated to smoking indicate that  although confounding by smoking may be present  it is unlikely to explain all of this increased risk. the excess relative risk for leukaemia excluding chronic lymphocytic leukaemia was 1.93 per sv (< 0 to 8.47). on the basis of these estimates  1-2% of deaths from cancer among workers in this cohort may be attributable to radiation. conclusions these estimates  from the largest study of nuclear workers ever conducted  are higher than  but statistically compatible with  the risk estimates used for current radiation protection standards. the results suggest that there is a small excess risk of cancer  even at the low doses and dose rates typically received by nuclear workers in this study.
2423,preliminary assessment of inhaled nitric oxide for acute vaso-occlusive crisis in pediatric patients with sickle cell disease.,context vaso-occlusion is central to the painful crises and acute and chronic organ damage in sickle cell disease. abnormal nitric oxide-dependent regulation of vascular tone  adhesion  platelet activation  and inflammation contributes to the pathophysiology of vaso-occlusion. nitric oxide may have promise as a mechanism-of-disease-based therapy for treatment of vaso-occlusion. objective to explore the efficacy and safety of inhaled nitric oxide (ino) for treatment of vaso-occlusive crisis in pediatric patients. design prospective  double-blind  placebo-controlled  randomized clinical trial with enrollment between september 1999 and october 2001. setting urban  tertiary care children's hospital in the united states. participants twenty patients aged 10 to 21 years with sickle cell disease and severe acute vaso-occlusive crisis. intervention patients were randomly assigned to receive ino (80 ppm with 21% final concentration of inspired oxygen; n = 10)  or placebo (21% inspired oxygen; n = 10) for 4 hours. main outcome measures change in pain at 4 hours of inhalation compared with preinhalation pain  measured on a 10-cm visual analog scale (vas); secondary outcome measures were pain over 6 hours  parenteral narcotic use over 24 hours  duration of hospitalization  blood pressure  oxygen saturation  and methemoglobin concentration. results preinhalation vas pain scores were similar in the ino and placebo groups (p =.80). the decrease in vas pain scores at 4 hours was 2.0 cm in the ino group and 1.2 cm in the placebo group (p =.37). repeated-measures analysis of variance for hourly pain scores showed a 1-cm/h greater reduction in the ino group than the placebo group (p =.02). morphine use over 6 hours was significantly less in the ino group (mean cumulative use  0.29 vs 0.44 mg/kg; p =.03) but was not different over 4 hours (0.26 vs 0.32 mg/kg; p =.21) or 24 hours (0.63 vs 0.91 mg/kg; p =.15). duration of hospitalization was 78 and 100 hours in the ino and placebo groups  respectively (p =.19). no ino toxicity was observed. conclusions results of this exploratory study suggest that ino may be beneficial for acute vaso-occlusive crisis. these preliminary results warrant further investigation.
2425,rare variants create synthetic genome-wide associations,genome-wide association studies (gwas) have now identified at least 2 000 common variants that appear associated with common diseases or related traits (http://www.genome.gov/gwastudies)  hundreds of which have been convincingly replicated. it is generally thought that the associated markers reflect the effect of a nearby common (minor allele frequency >0.05) causal site  which is associated with the marker  leading to extensive resequencing efforts to find causal sites. we propose as an alternative explanation that variants much less common than the associated one may create "synthetic associations" by occurring  stochastically  more often in association with one of the alleles at the common site versus the other allele. although synthetic associations are an obvious theoretical possibility  they have never been systematically explored as a possible explanation for gwas findings. here  we use simple computer simulations to show the conditions under which such synthetic associations will arise and how they may be recognized. we show that they are not only possible  but inevitable  and that under simple but reasonable genetic models  they are likely to account for or contribute to many of the recently identified signals reported in genome-wide association studies. we also illustrate the behavior of synthetic associations in real datasets by showing that rare causal mutations responsible for both hearing loss and sickle cell anemia create genome-wide significant synthetic associations  in the latter case extending over a 2.5-mb interval encompassing scores of "blocks" of associated variants. in conclusion  uncommon or rare genetic variants can easily create synthetic associations that are credited to common variants  and this possibility requires careful consideration in the interpretation and follow up of gwas signals.
2427,effect of glucosamine on pain-related disability in patients with chronic low back pain and degenerative lumbar osteoarthritis: a randomized controlled trial.,context chronic low back pain (lbp) with degenerative lumbar osteoarthritis (oa) is widespread in the adult population. although glucosamine is increasingly used by patients with chronic lbp  little is known about its effect in this setting. objective to investigate the effect of glucosamine in patients with chronic lbp and degenerative lumbar oa. design  setting  and participants a double-blind  randomized  placebo-controlled trial conducted at oslo university hospital outpatient clinic  oslo  norway  with 250 patients older than 25 years of age with chronic lbp (>6 months) and degenerative lumbar oa. interventions daily intake of 1500 mg of oral glucosamine (n = 125) or placebo (n = 125) for 6 months  with assessment of effect after the 6-month intervention period and at 1 year (6 months postintervention). main outcome measures the primary outcome was pain-related disability measured with the roland morris disability questionnaire (rmdq). secondary outcomes were numerical scores from pain-rating scales of patients at rest and during activity  and the quality-of-life euroqol-5 dimensions (eq-5d) instrument. data collection occurred during the intervention period at baseline  6 weeks  3 and 6 months  and again 6 months following the intervention at 1 year. group differences were analyzed using linear mixed models analysis. results at baseline  mean rmdq scores were 9.2 (95% confidence interval [ci]  8.4-10.0) for glucosamine and 9.7 (95% ci  8.9-10.5) for the placebo group (p = .37). at 6 months  the mean rmdq score was the same for the glucosamine and placebo groups (5.0; 95% ci  4.2-5.8). at 1 year  the mean rmdq scores were 4.8 (95% ci  3.9-5.6) for glucosamine and 5.5 (95% ci  4.7-6.4) for the placebo group. no statistically significant difference in change between groups was found when assessed after the 6-month intervention period and at 1 year: rmdq (p = .72)  lbp at rest (p = .91)  lbp during activity (p = .97)  and quality-of-life eq-5d (p = .20). mild adverse events were reported in 40 patients in the glucosamine group and 46 in the placebo group (p = .48). conclusions among patients with chronic lbp and degenerative lumbar oa  6-month treatment with oral glucosamine compared with placebo did not result in reduced pain-related disability after the 6-month intervention and after 1-year follow-up. trial registration clinicaltrials.gov identifier: nct00404079.
2429,genetic variation and gastric cancer risk: a field synopsis and meta-analysis.,background data on genetic susceptibility to sporadic gastric carcinoma have been published at a growing pace  but to date no comprehensive overview and quantitative summary has been available. methods we conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of the evidence on the association between dna variation and risk of developing stomach cancer. to assess result credibility  summary evidence was graded according to the venice criteria and false positive report probability (fprp) was calculated to further validate result noteworthiness. meta-analysis was also conducted for subgroups  which were defined by ethnicity (asian vs caucasian)  tumour histology (intestinal vs diffuse)  tumour site (cardia vs non-cardia) and helicobacter pylori infection status (positive vs negative). results literature search identified 824 eligible studies comprising 2 530 706 subjects (cases: 261 386 (10.3%)) and investigating 2841 polymorphisms involving 952 distinct genes. overall  we performed 456 primary and subgroup meta-analyses on 156 variants involving 101 genes. we identified 11 variants significantly associated with disease risk and assessed to have a high level of summary evidence: muc1 rs2070803 at 1q22 (diffuse carcinoma subgroup)  mtx1 rs2075570 at 1q22 (diffuse)  psca rs2294008 at 8q24.2 (non-cardia)  prkaa1 rs13361707 5p13 (non-cardia)  plce1 rs2274223 10q23 (cardia)  tgfbr2 rs3087465 3p22 (asian)  pklr rs3762272 1q22 (diffuse)  psca rs2976392 (intestinal)  gstp1 rs1695 11q13 (asian)  casp8 rs3834129 2q33 (mixed) and tnf rs1799724 6p21.3 (mixed)  with the first nine variants characterised by a low fprp. we also identified polymorphisms with lower quality significant associations (n=110). conclusions we have identified several high-quality biomarkers of gastric cancer susceptibility. these data will form the backbone of an annually updated online resource that will be integral to the study of gastric carcinoma genetics and may inform future screening programmes.
2431,golli protein negatively regulates store depletion-induced calcium influx in t cells.,calcium influx is crucial for t cell activation and differentiation. the detailed regulation of this process remains unclear. we report here that golli protein  an alternatively spliced product of the myelin basic protein gene  plays a critical role in regulating calcium influx in t cells. golli-deficient t cells were hyperproliferative and showed enhanced calcium entry upon t cell receptor stimulation. we further found that golli regulates calcium influx in t cells through the inhibition of the store depletion-induced calcium influx. mutation of the myristoylation site on golli disrupted its association with the plasma membrane and reversed its inhibitory action on ca2+ influx  indicating that membrane association of golli was essential for its inhibitory action. these results indicate that golli functions in a unique way to regulate t cell activation through a mechanism involving the modulation of the calcium homeostasis.
2433,in vivo effect of chronic hypoxia on the neurochemical profile of the developing rat hippocampus.,the cognitive deficits observed in children with cyanotic congenital heart disease suggest involvement of the developing hippocampus. chronic postnatal hypoxia present during infancy in these children may play a role in these impairments. to understand the biochemical mechanisms of hippocampal injury in chronic hypoxia  a neurochemical profile consisting of 15 metabolite concentrations and 2 metabolite ratios in the hippocampus was evaluated in a rat model of chronic postnatal hypoxia using in vivo 1h nmr spectroscopy at 9.4 t. chronic hypoxia was induced by continuously exposing rats (n = 23) to 10% o2 from postnatal day (p) 3 to p28. fifteen metabolites were quantified from a volume of 9-11 microl centered on the left hippocampus on p14  p21  and p28 and were compared with normoxic controls (n = 14). the developmental trajectory of neurochemicals in chronic hypoxia was similar to that seen in normoxia. however  chronic hypoxia had an effect on the concentrations of the following neurochemicals: aspartate  creatine  phosphocreatine  gaba  glutamate  glutamine  glutathione  myoinositol  n-acetylaspartate (naa)  phosphorylethanolamine  and phosphocreatine/creatine (pcr/cr) and glutamate/glutamine (glu/gln) ratios (p < 0.001 each  except glutamate  p = 0.04). the increased pcr/cr ratio is consistent with decreased brain energy consumption. given the well-established link between excitatory neurotransmission and brain energy metabolism  we postulate that elevated glutamate  glu/gln ratio  and gaba indicate suppressed excitatory neurotransmission in an energy-limited environment. decreased naa and phosphorylethanolamine suggest reduced neuronal integrity and phospholipid metabolism. the altered hippocampal neurochemistry during its development may underlie some of the cognitive deficits present in human infants at risk of chronic hypoxia.
2435,intestinal microbiota metabolism of l-carnitine  a nutrient in red meat  promotes atherosclerosis,intestinal microbiota metabolism of choline and phosphatidylcholine produces trimethylamine (tma)  which is further metabolized to a proatherogenic species  trimethylamine-n-oxide (tmao). we demonstrate here that metabolism by intestinal microbiota of dietary l-carnitine  a trimethylamine abundant in red meat  also produces tmao and accelerates atherosclerosis in mice. omnivorous human subjects produced more tmao than did vegans or vegetarians following ingestion of l-carnitine through a microbiota-dependent mechanism. the presence of specific bacterial taxa in human feces was associated with both plasma tmao concentration and dietary status. plasma l-carnitine levels in subjects undergoing cardiac evaluation (n = 2 595) predicted increased risks for both prevalent cardiovascular disease (cvd) and incident major adverse cardiac events (myocardial infarction  stroke or death)  but only among subjects with concurrently high tmao levels. chronic dietary l-carnitine supplementation in mice altered cecal microbial composition  markedly enhanced synthesis of tma and tmao  and increased atherosclerosis  but this did not occur if intestinal microbiota was concurrently suppressed. in mice with an intact intestinal microbiota  dietary supplementation with tmao or either carnitine or choline reduced in vivo reverse cholesterol transport. intestinal microbiota may thus contribute to the well-established link between high levels of red meat consumption and cvd risk.
2437,mutations in the phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase pathway predict for antitumor activity of the inhibitor px-866 whereas oncogenic ras is a dominant predictor for resistance.,the novel phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (pi3k) inhibitor px-866 was tested against 13 experimental human tumor xenografts derived from cell lines of various tissue origins. mutant pi3k (pik3ca) and loss of pten activity were sufficient  but not necessary  as predictors of sensitivity to the antitumor activity of the pi3k inhibitor px-866 in the presence of wild-type ras  whereas mutant oncogenic ras was a dominant determinant of resistance  even in tumors with coexisting mutations in pik3ca. the level of activation of pi3k signaling measured by tumor phosphorylated ser(473)-akt was insufficient to predict in vivo antitumor response to px-866. reverse-phase protein array revealed that the ras-dependent downstream targets c-myc and cyclin b were elevated in cell lines resistant to px-866 in vivo. studies using an h-ras construct to constitutively and preferentially activate the three best-defined downstream targets of ras  i.e.  raf  ralgds  and pi3k  showed that mutant ras mediates resistance through its ability to use multiple pathways for tumorigenesis. the identification of ras and downstream signaling pathways driving resistance to pi3k inhibition might serve as an important guide for patient selection as inhibitors enter clinical trials and for the development of rational combinations with other molecularly targeted agents.
2439,0021-972x/06/$15.00/0 the journal of clinical endocrinology & metabolism 91(3):760–771 printed in u.s.a. copyright © 2006 by the endocrine society doi: 10.1210/jc.2005-1923 review: aromatase inhibitors for ovulation induction,context for the last 40 yr  the first line of treatment for anovulation in infertile women has been clomiphene citrate (cc). cc is a safe  effective oral agent but is known to have relatively common antiestrogenic endometrial and cervical mucous side effects that could prevent pregnancy in the face of successful ovulation. in addition  there is a significant risk of multiple pregnancy with cc  compared with natural cycles. because of these problems  we proposed the concept of aromatase inhibition as a new method of ovulation induction that could avoid many of the adverse effects of cc. the objective of this review was to describe the different physiological mechanisms of action for cc and aromatase inhibitors (ais) and compare studies of efficacy for both agents for ovulation induction. evidence acquisition we conducted a systematic review of all the published studies  both controlled and noncontrolled  comparing cc and ai treatment  either alone or in combination with gonadotropins  for ovulation induction or augmentation  identified through the entrez-pubmed search engine. evidence synthesis because of the recent acceptance of the concept of using ais for ovulation induction  few controlled studies were identified  and the rest of the studies were pilot or preliminary comparisons. based on these studies  it appears that ais are as effective as cc in inducing ovulation  are devoid of any antiestrogenic side effects  result in lower serum estrogen concentrations  and are associated with good pregnancy rates with a lower incidence of multiple pregnancy than cc. when combined with gonadotropins for assisted reproductive technologies  ais reduce the dose of fsh required for optimal follicle recruitment and improve the response to fsh in poor responders. conclusions preliminary evidence suggests that ais may replace cc in the future because of similar efficacy with a reduced side effect profile. although worldwide experience with ais for ovulation induction is increasing  at present  definitive studies in the form of randomized controlled trials comparing cc with ais are lacking.
2441,gene therapy of arthritis with tcr isolated from the inflamed paw.,in recent years  the treatment of autoimmune diseases has been significantly advanced by the use of biological agents. however  some biologics are accompanied with severe side effects  including tuberculosis and other types of infection. there is thus a critical need for nonsystemic and lesion-specific methods of delivering these therapeutic agents. we attempted to treat a mouse model of arthritis by using t cells that expressed a regulatory molecule and were specifically directed to the inflamed paw. to this end  we first identified the tcr alphabeta genes accumulating in the inflamed paw of mice with collagen-induced arthritis (cia) by a combination of single-strand chain polymorphism analysis of tcr and single-cell sorting. we identified an expanded clone b47 which is autoreactive but is not specific to type ii collagen. in vivo  tcr genes from b47-transduced t cells accumulated in the inflamed paw. injection of cells cotransduced with the b47 and soluble tnfrig genes resulted in a significant suppression of cia. the suppression was correlated with the amount of tnfrig transcripts in the hind paw  not with the serum concentrations of tnfrig. moreover  t cells cotransduced with the b47 and intracellular foxp3 genes significantly suppressed cia with reductions in tnf-alpha  il-17a  and il-1beta expression and bone destruction. t cells cotransduced with b47 and foxp3 genes also suppressed the progression of established cia. therefore  immunosuppressive therapy with autoreactive tcr is a promising therapeutic strategy for arthritis whether the tcrs are used to deliver either soluble or intracellular suppressive molecules.
2443,self-reported health status and access to health services in a sample of prisoners in italy,background self-reported health status in underserved population of prisoners has not been extensively explored. the purposes of this cross-sectional study were to assess self-reported health  quality of life  and access to health services in a sample of male prisoners of italy. methods a total of 908 prisoners received a self-administered anonymous questionnaire pertaining on demographic and detention characteristics  self-reported health status and quality of life  access to health services  lifestyles  and participation to preventive  social  and rehabilitation programs. a total of 650 prisoners agreed to participate in the study and returned the questionnaire. results respectively  31.6% and 43.5% of prisoners reported a poor perceived health status and a poor quality of life  and 60% admitted that their health was worsened or greatly worsened during the prison stay. older age  lower education  psychiatric disorders  self-reported health problems on prison entry  and suicide attempts within prison were significantly associated with a perceived worse health status. at the time of the questionnaire delivery  30% of the prisoners self-reported a health problem present on prison entry and 82% present at the time of the survey. most frequently reported health problems included dental health problems  arthritis or joint pain  eye problems  gastrointestinal diseases  emotional problems  and high blood pressure. on average  prisoners encountered general practitioners six times during the previous year  and the frequency of medical encounters was significantly associated with older age  sentenced prisoners  psychiatric disorders  and self-reported health problems on prison entry. conclusions the findings suggest that prisoners have a perceived poor health status  specific care needs and health promotion programs are seldom offered. programs for correction of risk behaviour and prevention of long-term effects of incarceration on prisoners' health are strongly needed.
2445,neutrophil extracellular chromatin traps connect innate immune response to autoimmunity,autoantibodies to dna and histones (chromatin) are the defining antigen specificity in systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) and related musculoskeletal disorders but the mechanisms responsible for their induction remain mysterious. that situation rapidly changed once neutrophil extracellular chromatin traps (nets) were discovered and observed to play a conserved role in innate immune responses to a broad variety of microbial pathogens. at the center of an infectious process  neutrophils exert various antimicrobial defenses  including the release of nuclear chromatin into the extracellular space. the externalized nets  a complex meshwork of nuclear chromatin and antimicrobial proteins  serve to immobilize and degrade microbial pathogens. here  we critically evaluate the evidence supporting nets versus apoptotic bodies as a source for nuclear antigens in autoimmunity. we also discuss the possibility that net chromatin forms an essential component of immune deposits in the pathogenesis of glomerulonephritis in sle and other autoimmune immune complex diseases.
2447,yoko honda and shuji honda 1,longevity is regulated by the daf-2 gene network in caenorhabditis elegans. mutations in the daf-2 gene  which encodes a member of the insulin receptor family  confer the life extension (age) phenotype and the constitutive dauer (a growth-arrested larval form specialized for dispersal) formation phenotype. the age phenotype is mutually potentiated by two life extension mutations in the daf-2 gene and the clk-1 gene  a homologue of yeast cat5/coq7 known to regulate ubiquinone biosynthesis. in this study  we demonstrated that the daf-2 mutation also conferred an oxidative stress resistance (oxr) phenotype  which was also enhanced by the clk-1 mutation. similar to the age phenotype  the oxr phenotype was regulated by the genetic pathway of insulin-like signaling from daf-2 to the daf-16 gene  a homologue of the hnf-3/forkhead transcription factor. these findings led us to examine whether the insulin-like signaling pathway regulates the gene expression of antioxidant defense enzymes. we found that the mrna level of the sod-3 gene  which encodes mn-superoxide dismutase (sod)  was much higher in daf-2 mutants than in the wild type. moreover  the increased sod-3 gene expression phenotype is regulated by the insulin-like signaling pathway. although the clk-1 mutant itself did not display oxr and the increased sod-3 expression phenotypes  the clk-1 mutation enhanced them in the daf-2 mutant  suggesting that clk-1 is involved in longevity in two ways: clk-1 composes the original clk-1 longevity program and the daf-2 longevity program. these observations suggest that the daf-2 gene network controls longevity by regulating the mn-sod-associated antioxidant defense system. this system appears to play a role in efficient life maintenance at the dauer stage.
2449,hypoxia-induced energy stress regulates mrna translation and cell growth.,oxygen (o2) deprivation  or hypoxia  has profound effects on cell metabolism and growth. cells can adapt to low o2 in part through activation of hypoxia-inducible factor (hif). we report here that hypoxia inhibits mrna translation by suppressing multiple key regulators  including eif2alpha  eef2  and the mammalian target of rapamycin (mtor) effectors 4ebp1  p70s6k  and rps6  independent of hif. hypoxia results in energy starvation and activation of the ampk/tsc2/rheb/mtor pathway. hypoxic amp-activated protein kinase (ampk) activation also leads to eef2 inhibition. moreover  hypoxic effects on cellular bioenergetics and mtor inhibition increase over time. mutation of the tsc2 tumor suppressor gene confers a growth advantage to cells by repressing hypoxic mtor inhibition and hypoxia-induced g1 arrest. together  eif2alpha  eef2  and mtor inhibition represent important hif-independent mechanisms of energy conservation that promote survival under low o2 conditions.
2451,in vivo electroporation in the embryonic mouse central nervous system,this protocol describes a basic method for in vivo electroporation in the nervous system of embryonic mice. delivery of electric pulses following microinjection of dna into the brain ventricle or the spinal cord central canal enables efficient transfection of genes into the nervous system. transfection is facilitated by forceps-type electrodes  which hold the uterus and/or the yolk sac containing the embryo. more than ten embryos in a single pregnant mouse can be operated on within 30 min. more than 90% of operated embryos survive and more than 90% of these survivors express the transfected genes appropriately. gene expression in neurons persists for a long time  even at postnatal stages  after electroporation. thus  this method could be used to analyze roles of genes not only in embryonic development but also in higher order function of the nervous system  such as learning.
2453,up-to-date catalogues of yeast protein complexes,gold standard datasets on protein complexes are key to inferring and validating protein-protein interactions. despite much progress in characterizing protein complexes in the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae  numerous researchers still use as reference the manually curated complexes catalogued by the munich information center of protein sequences database. although this catalogue has served the community extremely well  it no longer reflects the current state of knowledge. here  we report two catalogues of yeast protein complexes as results of systematic curation efforts. the first one  denoted as cyc2008  is a comprehensive catalogue of 408 manually curated heteromeric protein complexes reliably backed by small-scale experiments reported in the current literature. this catalogue represents an up-to-date reference set for biologists interested in discovering protein interactions and protein complexes. the second catalogue  denoted as yhtp2008  comprises 400 high-throughput complexes annotated with current literature evidence. among them  262 correspond  at least partially  to cyc2008 complexes. evidence for interacting subunits is collected for 68 complexes that have only partial or no overlap with cyc2008 complexes  whereas no literature evidence was found for 100 complexes. some of these partially supported and as yet unsupported complexes may be interesting candidates for experimental follow up. both catalogues are freely available at: http://wodaklab.org/cyc2008/.
2455,febrile seizures in the developing brain result in persistent modification of neuronal excitability in limbic circuits,febrile (fever-induced) seizures affect 3–5% of infants and young children. despite the high incidence of febrile seizures  their contribution to the development of epilepsy later in life has remained controversial. combining a new rat model of complex febrile seizures and patch clamp techniques  we determined that hyperthermia-induced seizures in the immature rat cause a selective presynaptic increase in inhibitory synaptic transmission in the hippocampus that lasts into adulthood. the long-lasting nature of these potent alterations in synaptic communication after febrile seizures does not support the prevalent view of the 'benign' nature of early-life febrile convulsions.
2457,class ia mhc-deficient balb/c mice generate cd8+ t cell-mediated protective immunity against listeria monocytogenes infection.,cd8(+) t cells are required for protective immunity against intracellular pathogens such as listeria monocytogenes. in this study  we used class ia mhc-deficient mice  which have a severe reduction in circulating cd8(+) t cells  to determine the protective capacity of class ib mhc-restricted t cells during l. monocytogenes infection. the k(b-/-)d(b-/-) mutation was backcrossed onto a c.b10 (balb/c congenic at h-2 locus with c57bl/10) background  because balb/c mice are more susceptible to listeria infection than other commonly studied mouse strains such as c57bl/6. c.b10 k(b-/-)d(b-/-) mice immunized with a sublethal dose of l. monocytogenes were fully protected against a subsequent lethal infection. adoptive transfer of listeria-immune splenocyte subsets into naive k(b-/-)d(b-/-) mice indicated that cd8(+) t cells were the major component of this protective immune response. a cd8(+) t cell line isolated from the spleen of a listeria-infected class ia mhc-deficient mouse was shown to specifically recognize listeria-infected cells in vitro  as determined by ifn-gamma secretion and cytotoxicity assays. adoptive transfer of this t cell line alone resulted in significant protection against l. monocytogenes challenge. these results suggest that even a limited number of class ib mhc-restricted t cells are sufficient to generate the rapid recall response required for protection against secondary infection with l. monocytogenes.
2459,endothelial cell membranes contain podocalyxin--the major sialoprotein of visceral glomerular epithelial cells,podocalyxin is the major sialoprotein in the glycocalyx of glomerular podocytes. here we report on its extraglomerular localization  using a monospecific antibody which was obtained by affinity purification of igg on nitrocellulose transfers of glomerular podocalyxin. by indirect immunofluorescence  podocalyxin was found in the blood vessels of several organs (lung  heart  kidney  small intestine  brain  pancreas  aorta  the periportal blood vessels in liver  and the central arteries of follicles of the spleen  but not in the endothelia that line the sinusoids of the latter organs). by immunoelectron microscopy--using immunogold conjugates in diffusion ("pre-embedding") and surface ("postembedding") procedures--podocalyxin was localized on the luminal membrane domain of endothelial cells  in a patchy distribution. the presence of podocalyxin was confirmed in sds extracts of lung tissue by immunoblotting. we conclude that (a) podocalyxin is a widespread component of endothelial plasma membranes  (b) it is restricted to the luminal membrane domain  and (c) it is distributed unevenly on the endothelial cell surface.
2461,recurrent venous thromboembolism and bleeding complications during anticoagulant treatment in patients with cancer and venous thrombosis.,a small proportion of patients with deep vein thrombosis develop recurrent venous thromboembolic complications or bleeding during anticoagulant treatment. these complications may occur more frequently if these patients have concomitant cancer. this prospective follow-up study sought to determine whether in thrombosis patients those with cancer have a higher risk for recurrent venous thromboembolism or bleeding during anticoagulant treatment than those without cancer. of the 842 included patients  181 had known cancer at entry. the 12-month cumulative incidence of recurrent thromboembolism in cancer patients was 20.7% (95% ci  15.6%-25.8%) versus 6.8% (95% ci  3.9%- 9.7%) in patients without cancer  for a hazard ratio of 3.2 (95% ci  1.9-5.4) the 12-month cumulative incidence of major bleeding was 12.4% (95% ci  6.5%-18.2%) in patients with cancer and 4.9% (95% ci  2.5%-7.4%) in patients without cancer  for a hazard ratio of 2.2 (95% ci  1.2-4.1). recurrence and bleeding were both related to cancer severity and occurred predominantly during the first month of anticoagulant therapy but could not be explained by sub- or overanticoagulation. cancer patients with venous thrombosis are more likely to develop recurrent thromboembolic complications and major bleeding during anticoagulant treatment than those without malignancy. these risks correlate with the extent of cancer. possibilities for improvement using the current paradigms of anticoagulation seem limited and new treatment strategies should be developed.
2463,functional outcomes of multi-condition collaborative care and successful ageing: results of randomised trial,objective to evaluate the effectiveness of integrated care for chronic physical diseases and depression in reducing disability and improving quality of life. design a randomised controlled trial of multi-condition collaborative care for depression and poorly controlled diabetes and/or risk factors for coronary heart disease compared with usual care among middle aged and elderly people   setting fourteen primary care clinics in seattle  washington.   participants patients with diabetes or coronary heart disease  or both  and blood pressure above 140/90 mm hg  low density lipoprotein concentration >3.37 mmol/l  or glycated haemoglobin 8.5% or higher  and phq-9 depression scores of ≥ 10. intervention a 12 month intervention to improve depression  glycaemic control  blood pressure  and lipid control by integrating a "treat to target" programme for diabetes and risk factors for coronary heart disease with collaborative care for depression. the intervention combined self management support  monitoring of disease control  and pharmacotherapy to control depression  hyperglycaemia  hypertension  and hyperlipidaemia. main outcome measures social role disability (sheehan disability scale)  global quality of life rating  and world health organization disability assessment schedule (whodas-2) scales to measure disabilities in activities of daily living (mobility  self care  household maintenance). results of 214 patients enrolled (106 intervention and 108 usual care)  disability and quality of life measures were obtained for 97 intervention patients at six months (92%) and 92 at 12 months (87%)  and for 96 usual care patients at six months (89%) and 92 at 12 months (85%). improvements from baseline on the sheehan disability scale (-0.9  95% confidence interval -1.5 to -0.2; p = 0.006) and global quality of life rating (0.7  0.2 to 1.2; p = 0.005) were significantly greater at six and 12 months in patients in the intervention group. there was a trend toward greater improvement in disabilities in activities of daily living (-1.5  -3.3 to 0.4; p = 0.10). conclusions integrated care that covers chronic physical disease and comorbid depression can reduce social role disability and enhance global quality of life. trial registration clinical trials nct00468676.
2465,7α  25-dihydroxycholesterol-mediated activation of ebi2 in immune regulation and diseases,ebi2  aka gpr183  is a g-couple receptor originally identified in 1993 as one of main genes induced in burkitt's lymphoma cell line bl41 by epstein-barr virus (ebv) infection. after it was reported in 2009 that the receptor played a key role in regulating b cell migration and responses  we initiated an effort in looking for its endogenous ligand. in 2011 we and another group reported the identification of 7α  25-dihydroxyxcholesterol (7α  25-ohc)  an oxysterol  as the likely physiological ligand of ebi2. a few subsequently published studies further elucidated how 7α  25-ohc bound to ebi2  and how a gradient of 7α  25-ohc could be generated in vivo and regulated migration  activation  and functions of b cells  t cells  dendritic cells (dcs)  monocytes/macrophages  and astrocytes. the identification of 7α  25-ohc as a g protein-coupled receptor ligand revealed a previously unknown signaling system of oxysterols  a class of molecules which exert profound biological functions. dysregulation of the synthesis or functions of these molecules is believed to contribute to inflammation and autoimmune diseases  cardiovascular diseases  neurodegenerative diseases  cancer as well as metabolic diseases such as diabetes  obesity  and dyslipidemia. therefore ebi2 may represent a promising target for therapeutic interventions for human diseases.
2467,the novel immunosuppressive enzyme il4i1 is expressed by neoplastic cells of several b-cell lymphomas and by tumor-associated macrophages,we previously reported a strong il4i1 gene expression in primary mediastinal b-cell lymphoma (pmbl) and recently identified the protein as a secreted l-phenylalanine oxidase  physiologically expressed by myeloid cells  which inhibits t-cell proliferation in vitro. here  we analyzed the pattern of il4i1 protein expression in 315 human lymphoid and non-lymphoid malignancies. besides pmbl  il4i1 expression in tumors was very frequent. il4i1 was detected in tumor-associated macrophages from most of the tumors and in neoplastic cells from follicular lymphoma  classic and nodular lymphocyte predominant hodgkin lymphomas and small lymphocytic lymphoma  three of which are germinal center derived. il4i1-positive tumor cells were also detected in rare cases of solid cancers  mainly mesothelioma. the enzymatic activity paralleled protein expression  suggesting that il4i1 is functional in vivo. depending on the tumor type  il4i1 may impact on different infiltrating lymphocyte populations with consequences on tumor evolution. in the particular case of follicular lymphoma cells  which are susceptible to antitumor cytotoxic t cells killing but depend on interactions with local t helper cells for survival  a high level of il4i1 expression seems associated with the absence of bone marrow involvement and a better outcome. these findings plead for an evaluation of il4i1 as a prognosis factor.
2469,suppression of subtelomeric vsg switching by trypanosoma brucei trf requires its ttaggg repeat-binding activity,trypanosoma brucei causes human african trypanosomiasis and regularly switches its major surface antigen  vsg  in the bloodstream of its mammalian host to evade the host immune response. vsgs are expressed exclusively from subtelomeric loci  and we have previously shown that telomere proteins tbtif2 and tbrap1 play important roles in vsg switching and vsg silencing regulation  respectively. we now discover that the telomere duplex dna-binding factor  tbtrf  also plays a critical role in vsg switching regulation  as a transient depletion of tbtrf leads to significantly more vsg switching events. we solved the nmr structure of the dna-binding myb domain of tbtrf  which folds into a canonical helix-loop-helix structure that is conserved to the myb domains of mammalian trf proteins. the tbtrf myb domain tolerates well the bulky j base in t. brucei telomere dna  and the dna-binding affinity of tbtrf is not affected by the presence of j both in vitro and in vivo. in addition  we find that point mutations in tbtrf myb that significantly reduced its in vivo telomere dna-binding affinity also led to significantly increased vsg switching frequencies  indicating that the telomere dna-binding activity is critical for tbtrf's role in vsg switching regulation.
2471,the epidemiology and iatrogenic transmission of hepatitis c virus in egypt: a bayesian coalescent approach.,hepatitis c virus (hcv) is a leading cause of liver cancer and cirrhosis  and egypt has possibly the highest hcv prevalence worldwide. in this article we use a newly developed bayesian inference framework to estimate the transmission dynamics of hcv in egypt from sampled viral gene sequences  and to predict the public health impact of the virus. our results indicate that the effective number of hcv infections in egypt underwent rapid exponential growth between 1930 and 1955. the timing and speed of this spread provides quantitative genetic evidence that the egyptian hcv epidemic was initiated and propagated by extensive antischistosomiasis injection campaigns. although our results show that hcv transmission has since decreased  we conclude that hcv is likely to remain prevalent in egypt for several decades. our combined population genetic and epidemiological analysis provides detailed estimates of historical changes in egyptian hcv prevalence. because our results are consistent with a demographic scenario specified a priori  they also provide an objective test of inference methods based on the coalescent process.
2473,haplotype-based variant detection from short-read sequencing,the direct detection of haplotypes from short-read dna sequencing data requires changes to existing small-variant detection methods. here  we develop a bayesian statistical framework which is capable of modeling multiallelic loci in sets of individuals with non-uniform copy number. we then describe our implementation of this framework in a haplotype-based variant detector  freebayes.
2475,actin and serum response factor transduce physical cues from the microenvironment to regulate epidermal stem cell fate decisions,epidermal homeostasis depends on a balance between stem cell renewal and differentiation and is regulated by extrinsic signals from the extracellular matrix (ecm). a powerful approach to analysing the pathways involved is to engineer single-cell microenvironments in which individual variables are precisely and quantitatively controlled. here  we employ micropatterned surfaces to identify the signalling pathways by which restricted ecm contact triggers human epidermal stem cells to initiate terminal differentiation. on small (20 μm diameter) circular islands  keratinocytes remained rounded  and differentiated at higher frequency than cells that could spread on large (50 μm diameter) islands. differentiation did not depend on ecm composition or density. rather  the actin cytoskeleton mediated shape-induced differentiation by regulating serum response factor (srf) transcriptional activity. knockdown of srf or its co-factor mal inhibited differentiation  whereas overexpression of mal stimulated srf activity and involucrin expression. srf target genes fos and junb were also required for differentiation: c-fos mediated serum responsiveness  whereas junb was regulated by actin and mal. our findings demonstrate how biophysical cues are transduced into transcriptional responses that determine epidermal cell fate.
2477,inhibition of lsd1 sensitizes glioblastoma cells to histone deacetylase inhibitors.,glioblastoma multiforme (gbm) is a particularly aggressive brain tumor and remains a clinically devastating disease. despite innovative therapies for the treatment of gbm  there has been no significant increase in patient survival over the past decade. enzymes that control epigenetic alterations are of considerable interest as targets for cancer therapy because of their critical roles in cellular processes that lead to oncogenesis. several inhibitors of histone deacetylases (hdacs) have been developed and tested in gbm with moderate success. we found that treatment of gbm cells with hdac inhibitors caused the accumulation of histone methylation  a modification removed by the lysine specific demethylase 1 (lsd1). this led us to examine the effects of simultaneously inhibiting hdacs and lsd1 as a potential combination therapy. we evaluated induction of apoptosis in gbm cell lines after combined inhibition of lsd1 and hdacs. lsd1 was inhibited by targeted short hairpin rna or pharmacological means and inhibition of hdacs was achieved by treatment with either vorinostat or pci-24781. caspase-dependent apoptosis was significantly increased (>2-fold) in lsd1-knockdown gbm cells treated with hdac inhibitors. moreover  pharmacologically inhibiting lsd1 with the monoamine oxidase inhibitor tranylcypromine  in combination with hdac inhibitors  led to synergistic apoptotic cell death in gbm cells; this did not occur in normal human astrocytes. taken together  these results indicate that lsd1 and hdacs cooperate to regulate key pathways of cell death in gbm cell lines but not in normal counterparts  and they validate the combined use of lsd1 and hdac inhibitors as a therapeutic approach for gbm.
2479,proliferating cell nuclear antigen acts as a cytoplasmic platform controlling human neutrophil survival,neutrophil apoptosis is a highly regulated process essential for inflammation resolution  the molecular mechanisms of which are only partially elucidated. in this study  we describe a survival pathway controlled by proliferating cell nuclear antigen (pcna)  a nuclear factor involved in dna replication and repairing of proliferating cells. we show that mature neutrophils  despite their inability to proliferate  express high levels of pcna exclusively in their cytosol and constitutively associated with procaspases  presumably to prevent their activation. notably  cytosolic pcna abundance decreased during apoptosis  and increased during in vitro and in vivo exposure to the survival factor granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (g-csf). peptides derived from the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21  which compete with procaspases to bind pcna  triggered neutrophil apoptosis thus demonstrating that specific modification of pcna protein interactions affects neutrophil survival. furthermore  pcna overexpression rendered neutrophil-differentiated plb985 myeloid cells significantly more resistant to tnf-related apoptosis-inducing ligand- or gliotoxin-induced apoptosis. conversely  a decrease in pcna expression after pcna small interfering rna transfection sensitized these cells to apoptosis. finally  a mutation in the pcna interdomain-connecting loop  the binding site for many partners  significantly decreased the pcna-mediated antiapoptotic effect. these results identify pcna as a regulator of neutrophil lifespan  thereby highlighting a novel target to potentially modulate pathological inflammation.
2481,combinatorial modulation of galp and glk gene expression for improved alternative glucose utilization,phosphoenolpyruvate (pep) is an important precursor for anaerobic production of succinate and malate. although inactivating pep/carbohydrate phosphotransferase systems (pts) could increase pep supply  the resulting strain had a low glucose utilization rate. in order to improve anaerobic glucose utilization rate for efficient production of succinate and malate  combinatorial modulation of galactose permease (galp) and glucokinase (glk) gene expression was carried out in chromosome of an escherichia coli strain with inactivated pts. libraries of artificial regulatory parts  including promoter and messenger rna stabilizing region (mrs)  were firstly constructed in front of β-galactosidase gene (lacz) in e. coli chromosome through λ-red recombination. most regulatory parts selected from mrs library had constitutive strengths under different cultivation conditions. a convenient one-step recombination method was then used to modulate galp and glk gene expression with different regulatory parts. glucose utilization rates of strains modulated with either galp or glk all increased  and the rates had a positive relation with expression strength of both genes. combinatorial modulation had a synergistic effect on glucose utilization rate. the highest rate (1.64 g/l h) was tenfold higher than pts− strain and 39% higher than the wild-type e. coli. these modulated strains could be used for efficient anaerobic production of succinate and malate.
2483,the structure of ddrb from deinococcus: a new fold for single-stranded dna binding proteins,deinococcus spp. are renowned for their amazing ability to recover rapidly from severe genomic fragmentation as a result of exposure to extreme levels of ionizing radiation or desiccation. despite having been originally characterized over 50 years ago  the mechanism underlying this remarkable repair process is still poorly understood. here  we report the 2.8 a structure of ddrb  a single-stranded dna (ssdna) binding protein unique to deinococcus spp. that is crucial for recovery following dna damage. ddrb forms a pentameric ring capable of binding single-stranded but not double-stranded dna. unexpectedly  the crystal structure reveals that ddrb comprises a novel fold that is structurally and topologically distinct from all other single-stranded binding (ssb) proteins characterized to date. the need for a unique ssdna binding function in response to severe damage  suggests a distinct role for ddrb which may encompass not only standard ssb protein function in protection of ssdna  but also more specialized roles in protein recruitment or dna architecture maintenance. possible mechanisms of ddrb action in damage recovery are discussed.
2485,dual targeting of pdgfrα and fgfr1 displays synergistic efficacy in malignant rhabdoid tumors,subunits of the swi/snf chromatin remodeling complex are mutated in a significant proportion of human cancers. malignant rhabdoid tumors (mrts) are lethal pediatric cancers characterized by a deficiency in the swi/snf subunit smarcb1. here  we employ an integrated molecular profiling and chemical biology approach to demonstrate that the receptor tyrosine kinases (rtks) pdgfrα and fgfr1 are coactivated in mrt cells and that dual blockade of these receptors has synergistic efficacy. inhibitor combinations targeting both receptors and the dual inhibitor ponatinib suppress the akt and erk1/2 pathways leading to apoptosis. mrt cells that have acquired resistance to the pdgfrα inhibitor pazopanib are susceptible to fgfr inhibitors. we show that pdgfrα levels are regulated by smarcb1 expression  and assessment of clinical specimens documents the expression of both pdgfrα and fgfr1 in rhabdoid tumor patients. our findings support a therapeutic approach in cancers with swi/snf deficiencies by exploiting rtk coactivation dependencies.
2487,tumor-associated macrophages correlate with the clinicopathological features and poor outcomes via inducing epithelial to mesenchymal transition in oral squamous cell carcinoma,background both tumor-associated macrophages (tams) and the epithelial to mesenchymal transition (emt) of cancer cells play key roles in promoting tumor progression. however  whether tams could induce emt in the progression of oral squamous cell carcinoma (oscc) remains undefined. results here we detected the expression of macrophages markers cd68 and cd163  epithelial marker e-cadherin and mesenchymal marker vimentin in 127 oscc patients by using semi-quantitative immunohistochemistry. cd68 and cd163 expression was not confined to the infiltrating tams  but also detected in cancer cells. the high number of cd68-positive macrophages was correlated with poor overall survival. meanwhile  the expression of cd163 both in macrophages and in cancer cells was associated with poor overall survival and had a significant prognostic impact in oscc. importantly  the expression of cd163 in cancer cells had a significant relationship with e-cadherin and vimentin. furthermore  the incubation of tams conditioned medium resulted in a fibroblast-like appearance of cancer cells (hn4  hn6 and scc9) together with the decreased/increased expression of e-cadherin/ vimentin  which were correlated with the enhanced ability of migration and invasion. conclusions our results indicate that tams could promote the emt of cancer cells  thereby leading to the progression of oral cancer.
2489,amyloid accumulation is a late event in sporadic alzheimer's disease-like pathology in nontransgenic rats,the amyloid cascade hypothesis posits that deposition of the amyloid β (aβ) peptide in the brain is a key event in the initiation of alzheimer's disease (ad). nonetheless  it now seems increasingly unlikely that amyloid toxicity is the cause of sporadic ad  which leads to cognitive decline. here  using accelerated-senescence nontransgenic oxys rats  we confirmed that aggregation of aβ is a later event in ad-like pathology. we showed that an age-dependent increase in the levels of aβ₁₋₄₂ and extracellular aβ deposits in the brain of oxys rats occur later than do synaptic losses  neuronal cell death  mitochondrial structural abnormalities  and hyperphosphorylation of the tau protein. we identified the variants of the genes that are strongly associated with the risk of either late-onset or early-onset ad  including app  apoe4  bace1  psen1  psen2  and picalm. we found that in oxys rats nonsynonymous snps were located only in the genes casp3 and sorl1. thus  we present proof that oxys rats may be a model of sporadic ad. it is possible that multiple age-associated pathological processes may precede the toxic amyloid accumulation  which in turn triggers the final stage of the sporadic form of ad and becomes a hallmark event of the disease.
2491,conditional kif3a ablation causes abnormal hedgehog signaling topography  growth plate dysfunction  and excessive bone and cartilage formation during mouse skeletogenesis.,the motor protein kif3a and primary cilia regulate important developmental processes  but their roles in skeletogenesis remain ill-defined. here we created mice deficient in kif3a in cartilage and focused on the cranial base and synchondroses. kif3a deficiency caused cranial base growth retardation and dysmorphogenesis  which were evident in neonatal animals by anatomical and micro-computed tomography (microct) inspection. kif3a deficiency also changed synchondrosis growth plate organization and function  and the severity of these changes increased over time. by postnatal day (p)7  mutant growth plates lacked typical zones of chondrocyte proliferation and hypertrophy  and were instead composed of chondrocytes with an unusual phenotype characterized by strong collagen ii (col2a1) gene expression but barely detectable expression of indian hedgehog (ihh)  collagen x (col10a1)  vegf (vegfa)  mmp-13 (mmp13) and osterix (sp7). concurrently  unexpected developmental events occurred in perichondrial tissues  including excessive intramembranous ossification all along the perichondrial border and the formation of ectopic cartilage masses. looking for possible culprits for these latter processes  we analyzed hedgehog signalling topography and intensity by monitoring the expression of the hedgehog effectors patched 1 and gli1  and of the hedgehog-binding cell-surface component syndecan 3. compared with controls  hedgehog signaling was quite feeble within mutant growth plates as early as p0  but was actually higher and was widespread all along mutant perichondrial tissues. lastly  we studied postnatal mice deficient in ihh in cartilage; their cranial base defects only minimally resembled those in kif3a-deficient mice. in summary  kif3a and primary cilia make unique contributions to cranial base development and synchondrosis growth plate function. their deficiency causes abnormal topography of hedgehog signaling  growth plate dysfunction  and un-physiologic responses and processes in perichondrial tissues  including ectopic cartilage formation and excessive intramembranous ossification.
2493,spontaneous autoimmunity prevented by thymic expression of a single self-antigen,the expression of self-antigen in the thymus is believed to be responsible for the deletion of autoreactive t lymphocytes  a critical process in the maintenance of unresponsiveness to self. the autoimmune regulator (aire) gene  which is defective in the disorder autoimmune polyglandular syndrome type 1  has been shown to promote the thymic expression of self-antigens. a clear link  however  between specific thymic self-antigens and a single autoimmune phenotype in this model has been lacking. we show that autoimmune eye disease in aire-deficient mice develops as a result of loss of thymic expression of a single eye antigen  interphotoreceptor retinoid-binding protein (irbp). in addition  lack of irbp expression solely in the thymus  even in the presence of aire expression  is sufficient to trigger spontaneous eye-specific autoimmunity. these results suggest that failure of thymic expression of selective single self-antigens can be sufficient to cause organ-specific autoimmune disease  even in otherwise self-tolerant individuals.
2495,cytosolic viral sensor rig-i is a 5'-triphosphate-dependent translocase on double-stranded rna.,retinoic acid inducible-gene i (rig-i) is a cytosolic multidomain protein that detects viral rna and elicits an antiviral immune response. two n-terminal caspase activation and recruitment domains (cards) transmit the signal  and the regulatory domain prevents signaling in the absence of viral rna. 5'-triphosphate and double-stranded rna (dsrna) are two molecular patterns that enable rig-i to discriminate pathogenic from self-rna. however  the function of the dexh box helicase domain that is also required for activity is less clear. using single-molecule protein-induced fluorescence enhancement  we discovered a robust adenosine 5'-triphosphate-powered dsrna translocation activity of rig-i. the cards dramatically suppress translocation in the absence of 5'-triphosphate  and the activation by 5'-triphosphate triggers rig-i to translocate preferentially on dsrna in cis. this functional integration of two rna molecular patterns may provide a means to specifically sense and counteract replicating viruses.
2497,model for unidirectional movement of axonemal and cytoplasmic dynein molecules,a model for the unidirectional movement of dynein is presented based on structural observations and biochemical experimental results available. in this model  the binding affinity of dynein for microtubule is independent of its nucleotide state and the change between strong and weak microtubule-binding is determined naturally by the variation of relative orientation between the stalk and microtubule as the stalk rotates following nucleotide-state transition. thus the enigmatic communication from the atp binding site in the globular domain to the far mt-binding site in the tip of the stalk  which is prerequisite in conventional models  is not required. using the present model  the previous experimental results such as the effect of atp and adp bindings on dissociation of dynein from microtubule  the processive movement of single-headed axonemal dyneins at saturating atp concentration  the load dependence of step size for the processive movement of two-headed cytoplasmic dyneins and the dependence of stall force on atp concentration can be well explained.
2499,natural killer cells for immunotherapy – advantages of the nk-92 cell line over blood nk cells,natural killer (nk) cells are potent cytotoxic effector cells for cancer therapy and potentially for severe viral infections. however  there are technical challenges to obtain sufficient numbers of functionally active nk cells from a patient's blood since they represent only 10% of the lymphocytes and are often dysfunctional. the alternative is to obtain cells from a healthy donor  which requires depletion of the allogeneic t cells to prevent graft-versus-host reactions. cytotoxic cell lines have been established from patients with clonal nk-cell lymphoma. those cells can be expanded in culture in the presence of il-2. except for the nk-92 cell line  though  none of the other six known nk cell lines has consistently and reproducibly shown high antitumor cytotoxicity. only nk-92 cells can easily be genetically manipulated to recognize specific tumor antigens or to augment monoclonal antibody activity through antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity. nk-92 is also the only cell line product that has been infused into patients with advanced cancer with clinical benefit and minimal side effects.
2501,regulators of trypanosoma brucei cell cycle progression and differentiation identified using a kinome-wide rnai screen,the african trypanosome  trypanosoma brucei  maintains an integral link between cell cycle regulation and differentiation during its intricate life cycle. whilst extensive changes in phosphorylation have been documented between the mammalian bloodstream form and the insect procyclic form  relatively little is known about the parasite's protein kinases (pks) involved in the control of cellular proliferation and differentiation. to address this  a t. brucei kinome-wide rnai cell line library was generated  allowing independent inducible knockdown of each of the parasite's 190 predicted protein kinases. screening of this library using a cell viability assay identified ≥42 pks that are required for normal bloodstream form proliferation in culture. a secondary screen identified 24 pks whose rnai-mediated depletion resulted in a variety of cell cycle defects including in g1/s  kinetoplast replication/segregation  mitosis and cytokinesis  15 of which are novel cell cycle regulators. a further screen identified for the first time two pks  named repressor of differentiation kinase (rdk1 and rdk2)  depletion of which promoted bloodstream to procyclic form differentiation. rdk1 is a membrane-associated ste11-like pk  whilst rdk2 is a nek pk that is essential for parasite proliferation. rdk1 acts in conjunction with the ptp1/pip39 phosphatase cascade to block uncontrolled bloodstream to procyclic form differentiation  whilst rdk2 is a pk whose depletion efficiently induces differentiation in the absence of known triggers. thus  the rnai kinome library provides a valuable asset for functional analysis of cell signalling pathways in african trypanosomes as well as drug target identification and validation.
2503,whole-genome sequencing of oryza brachyantha reveals mechanisms underlying oryza genome evolution,the wild species of the genus oryza contain a largely untapped reservoir of agronomically important genes for rice improvement. here we report the 261-mb de novo assembled genome sequence of oryza brachyantha. low activity of long-terminal repeat retrotransposons and massive internal deletions of ancient long-terminal repeat elements lead to the compact genome of oryza brachyantha. we model 32 038 protein-coding genes in the oryza brachyantha genome  of which only 70% are located in collinear positions in comparison with the rice genome. analysing breakpoints of non-collinear genes suggests that double-strand break repair through non-homologous end joining has an important role in gene movement and erosion of collinearity in the oryza genomes. transition of euchromatin to heterochromatin in the rice genome is accompanied by segmental and tandem duplications  further expanded by transposable element insertions. the high-quality reference genome sequence of oryza brachyantha provides an important resource for functional and evolutionary studies in the genus oryza.
2505,guidance of b cells by the orphan g protein-coupled receptor ebi2 shapes humoral immune responses.,humoral immunity depends on both rapid and long-term antibody production against invading pathogens. this is achieved by the generation of spatially distinct extrafollicular plasmablast and follicular germinal center (gc) b cell populations  but the signals that guide responding b cells to these alternative compartments have not been fully elucidated. here  we show that expression of the orphan g protein-coupled receptor epstein-barr virus-induced gene 2 (ebi2  also known as gpr183) by activated b cells was essential for their movement to extrafollicular sites and induction of early plasmablast responses. conversely  downregulation of ebi2 enabled b cells to access the center of follicles and promoted efficient gc formation. ebi2 therefore provides a previously uncharacterized dimension to b cell migration that is crucial for coordinating rapid versus long-term antibody responses.
2507,rapid and persistent modulation of actin dynamics regulates postsynaptic reorganization underlying bidirectional plasticity,the synapse is a highly organized cellular specialization whose structure and composition are reorganized  both positively and negatively  depending on the strength of input signals. the mechanisms orchestrating these changes are not well understood. a plausible locus for the reorganization of synapse components and structure is actin  because it serves as both cytoskeleton and scaffold for synapses and exists in a dynamic equilibrium between f-actin and g-actin that is modulated bidirectionally by cellular signaling. using a new fret-based imaging technique to monitor f-actin/g-actin equilibrium  we show here that tetanic stimulation causes a rapid  persistent shift of actin equilibrium toward f-actin in the dendritic spines of rat hippocampal neurons. this enlarges the spines and increases postsynaptic binding capacity. in contrast  prolonged low-frequency stimulation shifts the equilibrium toward g-actin  resulting in a loss of postsynaptic actin and of structure. this bidirectional regulation of actin is actively involved in protein assembly and disassembly and provides a substrate for bidirectional synaptic plasticity.
2509,cancer after pre-eclampsia: follow up of the jerusalem perinatal study cohort.,objective to compare the incidence of cancer among women with and without a history of pre-eclampsia. design cohort study. setting jerusalem perinatal study of women who delivered in three large hospitals in west jerusalem during 1964-76. participants 37 033 women. main outcome measures age adjusted and multivariable adjusted hazard ratios for cancer incidence for the entire cohort and for women who were primiparous at study entry. results cancer developed in 91 women who had pre-eclampsia and 2204 who did not (hazard ratio 1.27  95% confidence interval 1.03 to 1.57). the risk of site specific cancers was increased  particularly of the stomach  ovary epithelium  breast  and lung or larynx. the incidence of cancer of the stomach  breast  ovary  kidney  and lung or larynx was increased in primiparous women at study entry who had a history pre-eclampsia. conclusions a history of pre-eclampsia is associated with increases in overall risk of cancer and incidence at several sites. this may be explained by environmental and genetic factors common to the development of pre-eclampsia and cancer in this population.
2511,role for insulin signaling in catecholaminergic neurons in control of energy homeostasis.,dopaminergic midbrain neurons integrate signals on food palatability and food-associated reward into the complex control of energy homeostasis. to define the role of insulin receptor (ir) signaling in this circuitry  we inactivated ir signaling in tyrosine hydroxylase (th)-expressing cells of mice (ir(δth)). ir inactivation in th-expressing cells of mice resulted in increased body weight  increased fat mass  and hyperphagia. while insulin acutely stimulated firing frequency in 50% of dopaminergic vta/sn neurons  this response was abolished in ir(δth) mice. moreover  these mice exhibited an altered response to cocaine under food-restricted conditions. taken together  these data provide in vivo evidence for a critical role of insulin signaling in catecholaminergic neurons to control food intake and energy homeostasis.
2513,structural rearrangements of nr1/nr2a nmda receptors during allosteric inhibition,ionotropic glutamate receptor (iglur) subunits contain a large n-terminal domain (ntd) that precedes the agonist-binding domain (abd) and participates in subunit oligomerization. in nmda receptors (nmdars)  the ntds of nr2a and nr2b subunits also form binding sites for the endogenous inhibitor zn(2+) ion. although these allosteric sites have been characterized in detail  the molecular mechanisms by which the ntds communicate with the rest of the receptor to promote its inhibition remain unknown. here  we identify the abd dimer interface as a major structural determinant that permits coupling between the ntds and the channel gate. the strength of this interface also controls proton inhibition  another form of allosteric modulation of nmdars. conformational rearrangements at the abd dimer interface thus appear to be a key mechanism conserved in all iglur subfamilies  but have evolved to fulfill different functions: fast desensitization at ampa and kainate receptors  allosteric inhibition at nmdars.
2515,plasma lipids and prolactin in patients with breast cancer.,in a comparative study of pre- and postmenopausal women with benign and malignant breast disease  a number of differences were observed in circulating plasma prolactin and lipid concentrations. plasma lipids  phospholipids  triglycerides  cholesterol and free fatty acids were all higher in blood obtained from breast cancer patients prior to surgery. hdl-cholesterol levels were significantly lower in these patients. these differences remained when the patient groups were sub-divided according to menopausal status. plasma prolactin concentrations were also found to be higher in cancer compared with non-cancer patients  this effect being more marked in premenopausal than in postmenopausal patients. premenopausal patients with invasive or poorly differentiated disease had significantly higher prolactin levels than those with non-invasive disease. no correlations were found between plasma prolactin and any of the lipid fractions.
2517,specific killing of multiple myeloma cells by (-)-epigallocatechin-3-gallate extracted from green tea: biologic activity and therapeutic implications.,epigallocatechin-3-gallate (egcg)  a polyphenol extracted from green tea  is an antioxidant with chemopreventive and chemotherapeutic actions. based on its ability to modulate growth factor-mediated cell proliferation  we evaluated its efficacy in multiple myeloma (mm). egcg induced both dose- and time-dependent growth arrest and subsequent apoptotic cell death in mm cell lines including il-6-dependent cells and primary patient cells  without significant effect on the growth of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (pbmcs) and normal fibroblasts. treatment with egcg also led to significant apoptosis in human myeloma cells grown as tumors in scid mice. egcg interacts with the 67-kda laminin receptor 1 (lr1)  which is significantly elevated in myeloma cell lines and patient samples relative to normal pbmcs. rnai-mediated inhibition of lr1 resulted in abrogation of egcg-induced apoptosis in myeloma cells  indicating that lr1 plays an important role in mediating egcg activity in mm while sparing pbmcs. evaluation of changes in gene expression profile indicates that egcg treatment activates distinct pathways of growth arrest and apoptosis in mm cells by inducing the expression of death-associated protein kinase 2  the initiators and mediators of death receptor-dependent apoptosis (fas ligand  fas  and caspase 4)  p53-like proteins (p73  p63)  positive regulators of apoptosis and nf-kappab activation (card10  card14)  and cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors (p16 and p18). expression of related genes at the protein level were also confirmed by western blot analysis. these data demonstrate potent and specific antimyeloma activity of egcg and provide the rationale for its clinical evaluation.
2519,choosing haplotype-tagging snps based on unphased genotype data using a preliminary sample of unrelated subjects with an example from the multiethnic cohort study,we describe an approach for picking haplotype-tagging single nucleotide polymorphisms (htsnps) that is presently being taken in two large nested case-control studies within a multiethnic cohort (mec)  which are engaged in a search for associations between risk of prostate and breast cancer and common genetic variations in candidate genes. based on a preliminary sample of 70 control subjects chosen at random from each of the 5 ethnic groups in the mec we estimate haplotype frequencies using a variant of the excoffier-slatkin e-m algorithm after genotyping a high density of snps selected every 3–5 kb in and surrounding a candidate gene. in order to evaluate the performance of a candidate set of htsnps (which will be genotyped in the much larger case-control sample) we treat the haplotype frequencies estimate above as known  and carry out a formal calculation of the uncertainty of the number of copies of common haplotypes carried by an individual  summarizing this calculation as a coefficient of determination  r2h. a candidate set of htsnps of a given size is chosen so as to maximize the minimum value of r2h over the common haplotypes  h.
2521,methods and results,cytoscape is an open source software project for integrating biomolecular interaction networks with high-throughput expression data and other molecular states into a unified conceptual framework. although applicable to any system of molecular components and interactions  cytoscape is most powerful when used in conjunction with large databases of protein-protein  protein-dna  and genetic interactions that are increasingly available for humans and model organisms. cytoscape's software core provides basic functionality to layout and query the network; to visually integrate the network with expression profiles  phenotypes  and other molecular states; and to link the network to databases of functional annotations. the core is extensible through a straightforward plug-in architecture  allowing rapid development of additional computational analyses and features. several case studies of cytoscape plug-ins are surveyed  including a search for interaction pathways correlating with changes in gene expression  a study of protein complexes involved in cellular recovery to dna damage  inference of a combined physical/functional interaction network for halobacterium  and an interface to detailed stochastic/kinetic gene regulatory models.
2523,a viral microrna cluster strongly potentiates the transforming properties of a human herpesvirus,epstein-barr virus (ebv)  an oncogenic human herpesvirus  induces cell proliferation after infection of resting b lymphocytes  its reservoir in vivo. the viral latent proteins are necessary for permanent b cell growth  but it is unknown whether they are sufficient. ebv was recently found to encode micrornas (mirnas) that are expressed in infected b cells and in some ebv-associated lymphomas. ebv mirnas are grouped into two clusters located either adjacent to the bhrf1 gene or in introns contained within the viral bart transcripts. to understand the role of the bhrf1 mirna cluster  we have constructed a virus mutant that lacks all its three members (δ123) and a revertant virus. here we show that the b cell transforming capacity of the δ123 ebv mutant is reduced by more than 20-fold  relative to wild type or revertant viruses. b cells exposed to the knock-out virus displayed slower growth  and exhibited a two-fold reduction in the percentage of cells entering the cell cycle s phase. furthermore  they displayed higher latent gene expression levels and latent protein production than their wild type counterparts. therefore  the bhrf1 mirnas accelerate b cell expansion at lower latent gene expression levels. thus  this mirna cluster simultaneously enhances expansion of the virus reservoir and reduces the viral antigenic load  two features that have the potential to facilitate persistence of the virus in the infected host. thus  the ebv bhrf1 mirnas may represent new therapeutic targets for the treatment of some ebv-associated lymphomas.
2525,original article,unlabelled fruit and vegetable consumption has been inversely associated with the risk of chronic diseases including cancer and cardiovascular disease  with the beneficial effects attributed to a variety of protective antioxidants  carotenoids and phytonutrients. the objective of the present study was to determine the effect of supplementation with dehydrated concentrates from mixed fruit and vegetable juices (juice plus+r) on serum antioxidant and folate status  plasma homocysteine levels and markers for oxidative stress and dna damage. japanese subjects (n=60; age 27.8 yrs; bmi 22.1) were recruited to participate in a double-blind placebo controlled study and were randomized into 2 groups of 30  matched for sex  age  bmi and smoking status (39 males  22 smokers; 21 females  13 smokers). subjects were given encapsulated supplements containing mixed fruit and vegetable juice concentrates or a matching placebo for 28 days  with blood and urine samples collected at baseline  day 14 and day 28 for analytical testing. compared with the placebo  28 day supplementation significantly increased the concentration of serum beta-carotene 528% (p<0.0001)  lycopene 80.2% (p<0.0005)  and alpha tocopherol 39.5% (p<0.0001). serum folate increased 174.3% (p<0.0001) and correlated with a decrease in plasma homocysteine of -19.9% (p<0.03). compared with baseline  measures of oxidative stress decreased with serum lipid peroxides declining -10.5% (p<0.02) and urine 8ohdg decreasing -21.1% (p<0.02). evaluation of data from smokers only (n=17) after 28 days of active supplementation showed comparable changes. conclusion in the absence of dietary modification  supplementation with the fruit and vegetable juice concentrate capsules proved to be a highly bioavailable source of phytonutrients. important antioxidants were elevated to desirable levels associated with decreased risk of disease while markers of oxidative stress were reduced  and folate status improved with a concomitant decrease in homocysteine  and these benefits occurred to a similar extent in smokers when compared to non-smokers.
2527,viral paratransgenesis in the malaria vector anopheles gambiae,paratransgenesis  the genetic manipulation of insect symbiotic microorganisms  is being considered as a potential method to control vector-borne diseases such as malaria. the feasibility of paratransgenic malaria control has been hampered by the lack of candidate symbiotic microorganisms for the major vector anopheles gambiae. in other systems  densonucleosis viruses (dnvs) are attractive agents for viral paratransgenesis because they infect important vector insects  can be genetically manipulated and are transmitted to subsequent generations. however  an. gambiae has been shown to be refractory to dnv dissemination. we discovered  cloned and characterized the first known dnv (agdnv) capable of infection and dissemination in an. gambiae. we developed a flexible agdnv-based expression vector to express any gene of interest in an. gambiae using a two-plasmid helper-transducer system. to demonstrate proof-of-concept of the viral paratransgenesis strategy  we used this system to transduce expression of an exogenous gene (enhanced green fluorescent protein; egfp) in an. gambiae mosquitoes. wild-type and egfp-transducing agdnv virions were highly infectious to an. gambiae larvae  disseminated to and expressed egfp in epidemiologically relevant adult tissues such as midgut  fat body and ovaries and were transmitted to subsequent mosquito generations. these proof-of-principle data suggest that agdnv could be used as part of a paratransgenic malaria control strategy by transduction of anti-plasmodium peptides or insect-specific toxins in anopheles mosquitoes. agdnv will also be extremely valuable as an effective and easy-to-use laboratory tool for transient gene expression or rnai in an. gambiae.
2529,long-term effect of aspirin on cancer risk in carriers of hereditary colorectal cancer: an analysis from the capp2 randomised controlled trial,background observational studies report reduced colorectal cancer in regular aspirin consumers. randomised controlled trials have shown reduced risk of adenomas but none have employed prevention of colorectal cancer as a primary endpoint. the capp2 trial aimed to investigate the antineoplastic effects of aspirin and a resistant starch in carriers of lynch syndrome  the major form of hereditary colorectal cancer; we now report long-term follow-up of participants randomly assigned to aspirin or placebo. methods in the capp2 randomised trial  carriers of lynch syndrome were randomly assigned in a two-by-two factorial design to 600 mg aspirin or aspirin placebo or 30 g resistant starch or starch placebo  for up to 4 years. randomisation was in blocks of 16 with provision for optional single-agent randomisation and extended postintervention double-blind follow-up; participants and investigators were masked to treatment allocation. the primary endpoint was development of colorectal cancer. analysis was by intention to treat and per protocol. this trial is registered  isrctn59521990. results 861 participants were randomly assigned to aspirin or aspirin placebo. at a mean follow-up of 55·7 months  48 participants had developed 53 primary colorectal cancers (18 of 427 randomly assigned to aspirin  30 of 434 to aspirin placebo). intention-to-treat analysis of time to first colorectal cancer showed a hazard ratio (hr) of 0·63 (95% ci 0·35-1·13  p=0·12). poisson regression taking account of multiple primary events gave an incidence rate ratio (irr) of 0·56 (95% ci 0·32-0·99  p=0·05). for participants completing 2 years of intervention (258 aspirin  250 aspirin placebo)  per-protocol analysis yielded an hr of 0·41 (0·19-0·86  p=0·02) and an irr of 0·37 (0·18-0·78  p=0·008). no data for adverse events were available postintervention; during the intervention  adverse events did not differ between aspirin and placebo groups. interpretation 600 mg aspirin per day for a mean of 25 months substantially reduced cancer incidence after 55·7 months in carriers of hereditary colorectal cancer. further studies are needed to establish the optimum dose and duration of aspirin treatment. funding european union; cancer research uk; bayer corporation; national starch and chemical co; uk medical research council; newcastle hospitals trustees; cancer council of victoria australia; thripp south africa; the finnish cancer foundation; siak switzerland; bayer pharma.
2531,functional hemichannels in astrocytes: a novel mechanism of glutamate release.,little is known about the expression and possible functions of unopposed gap junction hemichannels in the brain. emerging evidence suggests that gap junction hemichannels can act as stand-alone functional channels in astrocytes. with immunocytochemistry  dye uptake  and hplc measurements  we show that astrocytes in vitro express functional hemichannels that can mediate robust efflux of glutamate and aspartate. functional hemichannels were confirmed by passage of extracellular lucifer yellow (ly) into astrocytes in nominal divalent cation-free solution (dcfs) and the ability to block this passage with gap junction blocking agents. glutamate/aspartate release (or ly loading) in dcfs was blocked by multivalent cations (ca2+  ba2+  sr2+  mg2+  and la3+) and by gap junction blocking agents (carbenoxolone  octanol  heptanol  flufenamic acid  and 18alpha-glycyrrhetinic acid) with affinities close to those reported for blockade of gap junction intercellular communication. glutamate efflux via hemichannels was also accompanied by greatly reduced glutamate uptake. glutamate release in dcfs  however  was not significantly mediated by reversal of the glutamate transporter: release did not saturate and was not blocked by glutamate transporter blockers. control experiments in dcfs precluded glutamate release by volume-sensitive anion channels  p2x7 purinergic receptor pores  or general purinergic receptor activation. blocking intracellular ca2+ mobilization by bapta-am or thapsigargin did not inhibit glutamate release in dcfs. divalent cation removal also induced glutamate release from intact cns white matter (acutely isolated optic nerve) that was blocked by carbenoxolone  suggesting the existence of functional hemichannels in situ. our results indicated that astrocyte hemichannels could influence cns levels of extracellular glutamate with implications for normal and pathological brain function.
2533,mendelian randomization study of b-type natriuretic peptide and type 2 diabetes: evidence of causal association from population studies,background genetic and epidemiological evidence suggests an inverse association between b-type natriuretic peptide (bnp) levels in blood and risk of type 2 diabetes (t2d)  but the prospective association of bnp with t2d is uncertain  and it is unclear whether the association is confounded. methods and findings we analysed the association between levels of the n-terminal fragment of pro-bnp (nt-pro-bnp) in blood and risk of incident t2d in a prospective case-cohort study and genotyped the variant rs198389 within the bnp locus in three t2d case-control studies. we combined our results with existing data in a meta-analysis of 11 case-control studies. using a mendelian randomization approach  we compared the observed association between rs198389 and t2d to that expected from the nt-pro-bnp level to t2d association and the nt-pro-bnp difference per c allele of rs198389. in participants of our case-cohort study who were free of t2d and cardiovascular disease at baseline  we observed a 21% (95% ci 3%-36%) decreased risk of incident t2d per one standard deviation (sd) higher log-transformed nt-pro-bnp levels in analysis adjusted for age  sex  body mass index  systolic blood pressure  smoking  family history of t2d  history of hypertension  and levels of triglycerides  high-density lipoprotein cholesterol  and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol. the association between rs198389 and t2d observed in case-control studies (odds ratio = 0.94 per c allele  95% ci 0.91-0.97) was similar to that expected (0.96  0.93-0.98) based on the pooled estimate for the log-nt-pro-bnp level to t2d association derived from a meta-analysis of our study and published data (hazard ratio = 0.82 per sd  0.74-0.90) and the difference in nt-pro-bnp levels (0.22 sd  0.15-0.29) per c allele of rs198389. no significant associations were observed between the rs198389 genotype and potential confounders. conclusions our results provide evidence for a potential causal role of the bnp system in the aetiology of t2d. further studies are needed to investigate the mechanisms underlying this association and possibilities for preventive interventions. please see later in the article for the editors' summary.
2535,thresholds for the cost–effectiveness of interventions: alternative approaches,many countries use the cost-effectiveness thresholds recommended by the world health organization's choosing interventions that are cost-effective project (who-choice) when evaluating health interventions. this project sets the threshold for cost-effectiveness as the cost of the intervention per disability-adjusted life-year (daly) averted less than three times the country's annual gross domestic product (gdp) per capita. highly cost-effective interventions are defined as meeting a threshold per daly averted of once the annual gdp per capita. we argue that reliance on these thresholds reduces the value of cost-effectiveness analyses and makes such analyses too blunt to be useful for most decision-making in the field of public health. use of these thresholds has little theoretical justification  skirts the difficult but necessary ranking of the relative values of locally-applicable interventions and omits any consideration of what is truly affordable. the who-choice thresholds set such a low bar for cost-effectiveness that very few interventions with evidence of efficacy can be ruled out. the thresholds have little value in assessing the trade-offs that decision-makers must confront. we present alternative approaches for applying cost-effectiveness criteria to choices in the allocation of health-care resources.
2537,differential effects of charybdotoxin on the activity of retinal ganglion cells in the dark- and light-adapted mouse retina,patch-clamp recordings were made from retinal ganglion cells in the mouse retina. under dark adaptation  blockage of bk(ca) channels increases the spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents (epscs) and light-evoked on-epscs  while it decreases the light-evoked off inhibitory postsynaptic currents (ipscs). however  under light adaptation it decreases the light-evoked on-epscs  the spontaneous ipscs and the light-evoked on- and off-ipscs. blockage of bk(ca) channels significantly altered the outputs of rgcs by changing their light-evoked responses into a bursting pattern and increasing the light-evoked depolarization of the membrane potentials  while it did not significantly change the peak firing rates of light-evoked responses.
2539,identification of an autoantigen demonstrates a link between interstitial lung disease and a defect in central tolerance.,interstitial lung disease (ild) is a common manifestation of systemic autoimmunity characterized by progressive inflammation or scarring of the lungs. patients who develop these complications can exhibit significantly impaired gas exchange that may result in hypoxemia  pulmonary hypertension  and even death. unfortunately  little is understood about how these diseases arise  including the role of specific defects in immune tolerance. another key question is whether autoimmune responses targeting the lung parenchyma are critical to ild pathogenesis  including that of isolated idiopathic forms. we show that a specific defect in central tolerance brought about by mutations in the autoimmune regulator gene (aire) leads to an autoreactive t cell response to a lung antigen named vomeromodulin and the development of ild. we found that a human patient and mice with defects in aire develop similar lung pathology  demonstrating that the aire-deficient model of autoimmunity is a suitable translational system in which to unravel fundamental mechanisms of ild pathogenesis.
2541,pd 0332991  a selective cyclin d kinase 4/6 inhibitor  preferentially inhibits proliferation of luminal estrogen receptor-positive human breast cancer cell lines in vitro,introduction alterations in cell cycle regulators have been implicated in human malignancies including breast cancer. pd 0332991 is an orally active  highly selective inhibitor of the cyclin d kinases (cdk)4 and cdk6 with ability to block retinoblastoma (rb) phosphorylation in the low nanomolar range. to identify predictors of response  we determined the in vitro sensitivity to pd 0332991 across a panel of molecularly characterized human breast cancer cell lines. methods forty-seven human breast cancer and immortalized cell lines representing the known molecular subgroups of breast cancer were treated with pd 0332991 to determine ic50 values. these data were analyzed against baseline gene expression data to identify genes associated with pd 0332991 response. results cell lines representing luminal estrogen receptor-positive (er+) subtype (including those that are her2 amplified) were most sensitive to growth inhibition by pd 0332991 while nonluminal/basal subtypes were most resistant. analysis of variance identified 450 differentially expressed genes between sensitive and resistant cells. prb and cyclin d1 were elevated and cdkn2a (p16) was decreased in the most sensitive lines. cell cycle analysis showed g0/g1 arrest in sensitive cell lines and western blot analysis demonstrated that rb phosphorylation is blocked in sensitive lines but not resistant lines. pd 0332991 was synergistic with tamoxifen and trastuzumab in er+ and her2-amplified cell lines  respectively. pd 0332991 enhanced sensitivity to tamoxifen in cell lines with conditioned resistance to er blockade. conclusions these studies suggest a role for cdk4/6 inhibition in some breast cancers and identify criteria for patient selection in clinical studies of pd 0332991
2543,tightrope act: autophagy in stem cell renewal  differentiation  proliferation  and aging,autophagy is a constitutive lysosomal catabolic pathway that degrades damaged organelles and protein aggregates. stem cells are characterized by self-renewal  pluripotency  and quiescence; their long life span  limited capacity to dilute cellular waste and spent organelles due to quiescence  along with their requirement for remodeling in order to differentiate  all suggest that they require autophagy more than other cell types. here  we review the current literature on the role of autophagy in embryonic and adult stem cells  including hematopoietic  mesenchymal  and neuronal stem cells  highlighting the diverse and contrasting roles autophagy plays in their biology. furthermore  we review the few studies on stem cells  lysosomal activity  and autophagy. novel techniques to detect autophagy in primary cells are required to study autophagy in different stem cell types. these will help to elucidate the importance of autophagy in stem cells during transplantation  a promising therapeutic approach for many diseases.
2545,collective trauma in northern sri lanka: a qualitative psychosocial-ecological study,background complex situations that follow war and natural disasters have a psychosocial impact on not only the individual but also on the family  community and society. just as the mental health effects on the individual psyche can result in non pathological distress as well as a variety of psychiatric disorders; massive and widespread trauma and loss can impact on family and social processes causing changes at the family  community and societal levels. method this qualitative  ecological study is a naturalistic  psychosocial ethnography in northern sri lanka  while actively involved in psychosocial and community mental health programmes among the tamil community. participatory observation  key informant interviews and focus group discussion with community level relief and rehabilitation workers and government and non-governmental officials were used to gather data. the effects on the community of the chronic  man-made disaster  war  in northern sri lanka were compared with the contexts found before the war and after the tsunami. results fundamental changes in the functioning of the family and the community were observed. while the changes after the tsunami were not so prominent  the chronic war situation caused more fundamental social transformations. at the family level  the dynamics of single parent families  lack of trust among members  and changes in significant relationships  and child rearing practices were seen. communities tended to be more dependent  passive  silent  without leadership  mistrustful  and suspicious. additional adverse effects included the breakdown in traditional structures  institutions and familiar ways of life  and deterioration in social norms and ethics. a variety of community level interventions were tried. conclusion exposure to conflict  war and disaster situations impact on fundamental family and community dynamics resulting in changes at a collective level. relief  rehabilitation and development programmes to be effective will need to address the problem of collective trauma  particularly using integrated multi-level approaches.
2547,overview of the ccp4 suite and current developments,the ccp4 (collaborative computational project  number 4) software suite is a collection of programs and associated data and software libraries which can be used for macromolecular structure determination by x-ray crystallography. the suite is designed to be flexible  allowing users a number of methods of achieving their aims. the programs are from a wide variety of sources but are connected by a common infrastructure provided by standard file formats  data objects and graphical interfaces. structure solution by macromolecular crystallography is becoming increasingly automated and the ccp4 suite includes several automation pipelines. after giving a brief description of the evolution of ccp4 over the last 30 years  an overview of the current suite is given. while detailed descriptions are given in the accompanying articles  here it is shown how the individual programs contribute to a complete software package.
2549,interface contractility between differently fated cells drives cell elimination and cyst formation,although cellular tumor-suppression mechanisms are widely studied  little is known about mechanisms that act at the level of tissues to suppress the occurrence of aberrant cells in epithelia. we find that ectopic expression of transcription factors that specify cell fates causes abnormal epithelial cysts in drosophila imaginal discs. cysts do not form cell autonomously but result from the juxtaposition of two cell populations with divergent fates. juxtaposition of wild-type and aberrantly specified cells induces enrichment of actomyosin at their entire shared interface  both at adherens junctions as well as along basolateral interfaces. experimental validation of 3d vertex model simulations demonstrates that enhanced interface contractility is sufficient to explain many morphogenetic behaviors  which depend on cell cluster size. these range from cyst formation by intermediate-sized clusters to segregation of large cell populations by formation of smooth boundaries or apical constriction in small groups of cells. in addition  we find that single cells experiencing lateral interface contractility are eliminated from tissues by apoptosis. cysts  which disrupt epithelial continuity  form when elimination of single  aberrantly specified cells fails and cells proliferate to intermediate cell cluster sizes. thus  increased interface contractility functions as error correction mechanism eliminating single aberrant cells from tissues  but failure leads to the formation of large  potentially disease-promoting cysts. our results provide a novel perspective on morphogenetic mechanisms  which arise from cell-fate heterogeneities within tissues and maintain or disrupt epithelial homeostasis.
2551,stromal fibroblasts present in invasive human breast carcinomas promote tumor growth and angiogenesis through elevated sdf-1/cxcl12 secretion,fibroblasts often constitute the majority of the stromal cells within a breast carcinoma  yet the functional contributions of these cells to tumorigenesis are poorly understood. using a coimplantation tumor xenograft model  we demonstrate that carcinoma-associated fibroblasts (cafs) extracted from human breast carcinomas promote the growth of admixed breast carcinoma cells significantly more than do normal mammary fibroblasts derived from the same patients. the cafs  which exhibit the traits of myofibroblasts  play a central role in promoting the growth of tumor cells through their ability to secrete stromal cell-derived factor 1 (sdf-1); cafs promote angiogenesis by recruiting endothelial progenitor cells (epcs) into carcinomas  an effect mediated in part by sdf-1. caf-secreted sdf-1 also stimulates tumor growth directly  acting through the cognate receptor  cxcr4  which is expressed by carcinoma cells. our findings indicate that fibroblasts within invasive breast carcinomas contribute to tumor promotion in large part through the secretion of sdf-1.
2553,the opa1-dependent mitochondrial cristae remodeling pathway controls atrophic  apoptotic  and ischemic tissue damage,mitochondrial morphological and ultrastructural changes occur during apoptosis and autophagy  but whether they are relevant in vivo for tissue response to damage is unclear. here we investigate the role of the optic atrophy 1 (opa1)-dependent cristae remodeling pathway in vivo and provide evidence that it regulates the response of multiple tissues to apoptotic  necrotic  and atrophic stimuli. genetic inhibition of the cristae remodeling pathway in vivo does not affect development  but protects mice from denervation-induced muscular atrophy  ischemic heart and brain damage  as well as hepatocellular apoptosis. mechanistically  opa1-dependent mitochondrial cristae stabilization increases mitochondrial respiratory efficiency and blunts mitochondrial dysfunction  cytochrome c release  and reactive oxygen species production. our results indicate that the opa1-dependent cristae remodeling pathway is a fundamental  targetable determinant of tissue damage in vivo.
2555,the par proteins: fundamental players in animal cell polarization.,the par genes were discovered in genetic screens for regulators of cytoplasmic partitioning in the early embryo of c. elegans  and encode six different proteins required for asymmetric cell division by the worm zygote. some of the par proteins are localized asymmetrically and form physical complexes with one another. strikingly  the par proteins have been found to regulate cell polarization in many different contexts in diverse animals  suggesting they form part of an ancient and fundamental mechanism for cell polarization. although the picture of how the par proteins function remains incomplete  cell biology and biochemistry are beginning to explain how par proteins polarize cells.
2557,regulated accumulation of desmosterol integrates macrophage lipid metabolism and inflammatory responses,inflammation and macrophage foam cells are characteristic features of atherosclerotic lesions  but the mechanisms linking cholesterol accumulation to inflammation and lxr-dependent response pathways are poorly understood. to investigate this relationship  we utilized lipidomic and transcriptomic methods to evaluate the effect of diet and ldl receptor genotype on macrophage foam cell formation within the peritoneal cavities of mice. foam cell formation was associated with significant changes in hundreds of lipid species and unexpected suppression  rather than activation  of inflammatory gene expression. we provide evidence that regulated accumulation of desmosterol underlies many of the homeostatic responses  including activation of lxr target genes  inhibition of srebp target genes  selective reprogramming of fatty acid metabolism  and suppression of inflammatory-response genes  observed in macrophage foam cells. these observations suggest that macrophage activation in atherosclerotic lesions results from extrinsic  proinflammatory signals generated within the artery wall that suppress homeostatic and anti-inflammatory functions of desmosterol.
2559,sequential domain assembly of ribosomal protein s3 drives 40s subunit maturation.,eukaryotic ribosomes assemble by association of ribosomal rna with ribosomal proteins into nuclear precursor particles  which undergo a complex maturation pathway coordinated by non-ribosomal assembly factors. here  we provide functional insights into how successive structural re-arrangements in ribosomal protein s3 promote maturation of the 40s ribosomal subunit. we show that s3 dimerizes and is imported into the nucleus with its n-domain in a rotated conformation and associated with the chaperone yar1. initial assembly of s3 with 40s precursors occurs via its c-domain  while the n-domain protrudes from the 40s surface. yar1 is replaced by the assembly factor ltv1  thereby fixing the s3 n-domain in the rotated orientation and preventing its 40s association. finally  ltv1 release  triggered by phosphorylation  and flipping of the s3 n-domain into its final position results in the stable integration of s3. such a stepwise assembly may represent a new paradigm for the incorporation of ribosomal proteins.
2561,telomerase-negative immortalized human cells contain a novel type of promyelocytic leukemia (pml) body.,telomerase-negative immortalized human cells maintain their telomeres by a mechanism known as alternative lengthening of telomeres (alt). we report here that alt cells contain a novel promyelocytic leukemia (pml) body (alt-associated pml body  apb). apbs are large donut-shaped nuclear structures containing pml protein  telomeric dna  and the telomere binding proteins human telomere repeat binding factors 1 and 2. immunostaining showed that apbs also contain replication factor a  rad51  and rad52  proteins involved in dna synthesis and recombination. during immortalization  apbs appeared at exactly the same time as activation of alt. apbs were found in alt tumors and cell lines but not in mortal cell strains or in telomerase-positive cell lines or tumors.
2563,analysis of re-replication from deregulated origin licensing by dna fiber spreading,a major challenge each human cell-division cycle is to ensure that dna replication origins do not initiate more than once  a phenomenon known as re-replication. acute deregulation of replication control ultimately causes extensive dna damage  cell-cycle checkpoint activation and cell death whereas moderate deregulation promotes genome instability and tumorigenesis. in the absence of detectable increases in cellular dna content however  it has been difficult to directly demonstrate re-replication or to determine if the ability to re-replicate is restricted to a particular cell-cycle phase. using an adaptation of dna fiber spreading we report the direct detection of re-replication on single dna molecules from human chromosomes. using this method we demonstrate substantial re-replication within 1 h of s phase entry in cells overproducing the replication factor  cdt1. moreover  a comparison of the hela cancer cell line to untransformed fibroblasts suggests that hela cells produce replication signals consistent with low-level re-replication in otherwise unperturbed cell cycles. re-replication after depletion of the cdt1 inhibitor  geminin  in an untransformed fibroblast cell line is undetectable by standard assays but readily quantifiable by dna fiber spreading analysis. direct evaluation of re-replicated dna molecules will promote increased understanding of events that promote or perturb genome stability.
2565,transcriptional signature and memory retention of human-induced pluripotent stem cells,genetic reprogramming of somatic cells to a pluripotent state (induced pluripotent stem cells or ipscs) by over-expression of specific genes has been accomplished using mouse and human cells. however  it is still unclear how similar human ipscs are to human embryonic stem cells (hescs). here  we describe the transcriptional profile of human ipscs generated without viral vectors or genomic insertions  revealing that these cells are in general similar to hescs but with significant differences. for the generation of human ipscs without viral vectors or genomic insertions  pluripotent factors oct4 and nanog were cloned in episomal vectors and transfected into human fetal neural progenitor cells. the transient expression of these two factors  or from oct4 alone  resulted in efficient generation of human ipscs. the reprogramming strategy described here revealed a potential transcriptional signature for human ipscs yet retaining the gene expression of donor cells in human reprogrammed cells free of viral and transgene interference. moreover  the episomal reprogramming strategy represents a safe way to generate human ipscs for clinical purposes and basic research.
2567,prophylaxis of postoperative vomiting in children undergoing tonsillectomy: a systematic review and meta-analysis.,postoperative vomiting (pov) remains one of the commonest causes of significant morbidity after tonsillectomy in children. a variety of prophylactic anti-emetic interventions have been reported  but there has only been a limited systematic review in this patient group. a systematic search was performed by using cochrane controlled trials register  medline and embase to identify double-blind  randomized  placebo-controlled trials of prophylactic anti-emetic interventions in children undergoing tonsillectomy  with or without adenoidectomy. the outcome of interest was pov in the first 24 h. summary estimates of the effect of each prophylactic anti-emetic strategy were derived using fixed effect meta-analysis. where appropriate  dose-response effects were estimated using logistic regression and 22 articles were identified. good evidence was found for the prophylactic anti-emetic effect of dexamethasone [odds ratio (or) 0.23  95% ci 0.16-0.33]  and the serotinergic antagonists ondansetron (or 0.36  95% ci 0.29-0.46)  granisetron (or 0.11  95% ci 0.06-0.19)  tropisetron (or 0.15  95% ci 0.06-0.35) and dolasetron (or 0.25  95% ci 0.1-0.59). metoclopramide was also found to be efficacious (or 0.51  95% ci 0.34-0.77). there is not sufficient evidence to suggest that dimenhydrinate  perphenazine or droperidol  in the doses studied  are efficacious  nor were gastric aspiration or acupuncture. in conclusion  dexamethasone and the anti-serotinergic agents appear to be the most effective agents for the prophylaxis for pov in children undergoing tonsillectomy.
2569,transient inactivation of rb and arf yields regenerative cells from postmitotic mammalian muscle.,an outstanding biological question is why tissue regeneration in mammals is limited  whereas urodele amphibians and teleost fish regenerate major structures  largely by cell cycle reentry. upon inactivation of rb  proliferation of postmitotic urodele skeletal muscle is induced  whereas in mammalian muscle this mechanism does not exist. we postulated that a tumor suppressor present in mammals but absent in regenerative vertebrates  the ink4a product arf (alternative reading frame)  is a regeneration suppressor. concomitant inactivation of arf and rb led to mammalian muscle cell cycle reentry  loss of differentiation properties  and upregulation of cytokinetic machinery. single postmitotic myocytes were isolated by laser micro-dissection-catapulting  and transient suppression of arf and rb yielded myoblast colonies that retained the ability to differentiate and fuse into myofibers upon transplantation in vivo. these results show that differentiation of mammalian cells is reversed by inactivation of arf and rb and support the hypothesis that arf evolved at the expense of regeneration.
2571,improved tools for biological sequence comparison.,we have developed three computer programs for comparisons of protein and dna sequences. they can be used to search sequence data bases  evaluate similarity scores  and identify periodic structures based on local sequence similarity. the fasta program is a more sensitive derivative of the fastp program  which can be used to search protein or dna sequence data bases and can compare a protein sequence to a dna sequence data base by translating the dna data base as it is searched. fasta includes an additional step in the calculation of the initial pairwise similarity score that allows multiple regions of similarity to be joined to increase the score of related sequences. the rdf2 program can be used to evaluate the significance of similarity scores using a shuffling method that preserves local sequence composition. the lfasta program can display all the regions of local similarity between two sequences with scores greater than a threshold  using the same scoring parameters and a similar alignment algorithm; these local similarities can be displayed as a "graphic matrix" plot or as individual alignments. in addition  these programs have been generalized to allow comparison of dna or protein sequences based on a variety of alternative scoring matrices.
2573,supplementary information: ‘mesord user’s guide ’ and other,unlabelled mesord is a tool for stochastic simulation of chemical reactions and diffusion. in particular  it is an implementation of the next subvolume method  which is an exact method to simulate the markov process corresponding to the reaction-diffusion master equation. availability mesord is free software  written in c++ and licensed under the gnu general public license (gpl). mesord runs on linux  mac os x  netbsd  solaris and windows xp. it can be downloaded from http://mesord.sourceforge.net. contact johan.elf@icm.uu.se; johan.hattne@embl-hamburg.de   supplementary information 'mesord user's guide' and other documents are available at http://mesord.sourceforge.net.
2575,modulation of replicative lifespan in cryptococcus neoformans: implications for virulence,the fungal pathogen  cryptococcus neoformans  has been shown to undergo replicative aging. old cells are characterized by advanced generational age and phenotypic changes that appear to mediate enhanced resistance to host and antifungal-based killing. as a consequence of this age-associated resilience  old cells accumulate during chronic infection. based on these findings  we hypothesized that shifting the generational age of a pathogenic yeast population would alter its vulnerability to the host and affect its virulence. sir2 is a well-conserved histone deacetylase  and a pivotal target for the development of anti-aging drugs. we tested its effect on c. neoformans' replicative lifespan (rls). first  a mutant c. neoformans strain (sir2δ) was generated  and confirmed a predicted shortened rls in sir2δ cells consistent with its known role in aging. next  rls analysis showed that treatment of c. neoformans with sir2p-agonists resulted in a significantly prolonged rls  whereas treatment with a sir2p-antagonist shortened rls. rls modulating effects were dependent on sir2 and not observed in sir2δ cells. because sir2 loss resulted in a slightly impaired fitness  effects of genetic rls modulation on virulence could not be compared with wild type cells. instead we chose to chemically modulate rls  and investigated the effect of sir2p modulating drugs on c. neoformans cells in a galleria mellonella infection model. consistent with our hypothesis that shifts in the generational age of the infecting yeast population alters its vulnerability to host cells  we observed decreased virulence of c. neoformans in the galleria host when rls was prolonged by treatment with sir2p agonists. in contrast  treatment with a sir2p antagonist  which shortens rls enhanced virulence in galleria. in addition  combination of sir2p agonists with antifungal therapy enhanced the antifungal's effect. importantly  no difference in virulence was observed with drug treatment when sir2δ cells were used for infection  which confirmed target specificity and ruled out non-specific effects of the drugs on the galleria host. thus  this study suggests that rls modulating drugs  such as sir2p agonists  shift lifespan and vulnerability of the fungal population  and should be further investigated as a potential class of novel antifungal drug targets that can enhance antifungal efficacy.
2577,lin-44/wnt directs dendrite outgrowth through lin-17/frizzled in c. elegans neurons,nervous system function requires proper development of two functional and morphological domains of neurons  axons and dendrites. although both these domains are equally important for signal transmission  our understanding of dendrite development remains relatively poor. here  we show that in c. elegans the wnt ligand  lin-44  and its frizzled receptor  lin-17  regulate dendrite development of the pqr oxygen sensory neuron. in lin-44 and lin-17 mutants  pqr dendrites fail to form  display stunted growth  or are misrouted. manipulation of temporal and spatial expression of lin-44  combined with cell-ablation experiments  indicates that this molecule is patterned during embryogenesis and acts as an attractive cue to define the site from which the dendrite emerges. genetic interaction between lin-44 and lin-17 suggests that the lin-44 signal is transmitted through the lin-17 receptor  which acts cell autonomously in pqr. furthermore  we provide evidence that lin-17 interacts with another wnt molecule  egl-20  and functions in parallel to mig-1/frizzled in this process. taken together  our results reveal a crucial role for wnt and frizzled molecules in regulating dendrite development in vivo.
2579,migraine and cardiovascular disease: systematic review and meta-analysis.,objective to evaluate the association between migraine and cardiovascular disease  including stroke  myocardial infarction  and death due to cardiovascular disease. design systematic review and meta-analysis. data sources electronic databases (pubmed  embase  cochrane library) and reference lists of included studies and reviews published until january 2009. selection criteria case-control and cohort studies investigating the association between any migraine or specific migraine subtypes and cardiovascular disease. review methods two investigators independently assessed eligibility of identified studies in a two step approach. disagreements were resolved by consensus. studies were grouped according to a priori categories on migraine and cardiovascular disease. data extraction two investigators extracted data. pooled relative risks and 95% confidence intervals were calculated. results studies were heterogeneous for participant characteristics and definition of cardiovascular disease. nine studies investigated the association between any migraine and ischaemic stroke (pooled relative risk 1.73  95% confidence interval 1.31 to 2.29). additional analyses indicated a significantly higher risk among people who had migraine with aura (2.16  1.53 to 3.03) compared with people who had migraine without aura (1.23  0.90 to 1.69; meta-regression for aura status p=0.02). furthermore  results suggested a greater risk among women (2.08  1.13 to 3.84) compared with men (1.37  0.89 to 2.11). age less than 45 years  smoking  and oral contraceptive use further increased the risk. eight studies investigated the association between migraine and myocardial infarction (1.12  0.95 to 1.32) and five between migraine and death due to cardiovascular disease (1.03  0.79 to 1.34). only one study investigated the association between women who had migraine with aura and myocardial infarction and death due to cardiovascular disease  showing a twofold increased risk. conclusion migraine is associated with a twofold increased risk of ischaemic stroke  which is only apparent among people who have migraine with aura. our results also suggest a higher risk among women and risk was further magnified for people with migraine who were aged less than 45  smokers  and women who used oral contraceptives. we did not find an overall association between any migraine and myocardial infarction or death due to cardiovascular disease. too few studies are available to reliably evaluate the impact of modifying factors  such as migraine aura  on these associations.
2581,a novel set of dna methylation markers in urine sediments for sensitive/specific detection of bladder cancer.,purpose this study aims to provide a better set of dna methylation markers in urine sediments for sensitive and specific detection of bladder cancer. experimental design fifty-nine tumor-associated genes were profiled in three bladder cancer cell lines  a small cohort of cancer biopsies and urine sediments by methylation-specific pcr. twenty-one candidate genes were then profiled in urine sediments from 132 bladder cancer patients (8 cases for stage 0a; 68 cases for stage i; 50 cases for stage ii; 4 cases for stages iii; and 2 cases for stage iv)  23 age-matched patients with noncancerous urinary lesions  6 neurologic diseases  and 7 healthy volunteers. results despite six incidences of four genes reported in 3 of 23 noncancerous urinary lesion patients analyzed  cancer-specific hypermethylation in urine sediments were reported for 15 genes (p < 0.05). methylation assessment of an 11-gene set (sall3  cftr  abcc6  hpr1  rassf1a  mt1a  runx3  itga4  bcl2  alx4  myod1  drm  cdh13  bmp3b  ccna1  rprm  mint1  and brca1) confirmed the existing diagnosis of 121 among 132 bladder cancer cases (sensitivity  91.7%) with 87% accuracy. significantly  more than 75% of stage 0a and 88% of stage i disease were detected  indicating its value in the early diagnosis of bladder cancer. interestingly  the cluster of reported methylation markers used in the u.s. bladder cancers is distinctly different from that identified in this study  suggesting a possible epigenetic disparity between the american and chinese cases. conclusions methylation profiling of an 11-gene set in urine sediments provides a sensitive and specific detection of bladder cancer.
2583,a key role for orexin in panic anxiety,panic disorder is a severe anxiety disorder with recurrent  debilitating panic attacks. in individuals with panic disorder there is evidence of decreased central gamma-aminobutyric acid (gaba) activity as well as marked increases in autonomic and respiratory responses after intravenous infusions of hypertonic sodium lactate. in a rat model of panic disorder  chronic inhibition of gaba synthesis in the dorsomedial-perifornical hypothalamus of rats produces anxiety-like states and a similar vulnerability to sodium lactate-induced cardioexcitatory responses. the dorsomedial-perifornical hypothalamus is enriched in neurons containing orexin (orx  also known as hypocretin)  which have a crucial role in arousal  vigilance and central autonomic mobilization  all of which are key components of panic. here we show that activation of orx-synthesizing neurons is necessary for developing a panic-prone state in the rat panic model  and either silencing of the hypothalamic gene encoding orx (hcrt) with rnai or systemic orx-1 receptor antagonists blocks the panic responses. moreover  we show that human subjects with panic anxiety have elevated levels of orx in the cerebrospinal fluid compared to subjects without panic anxiety. taken together  our results suggest that the orx system may be involved in the pathophysiology of panic anxiety and that orx antagonists constitute a potential new treatment strategy for panic disorder.
2585,mda5 and ptpn2  two candidate genes for type 1 diabetes  modify pancreatic β-cell responses to the viral by-product double-stranded rna,beta-cell destruction in type 1 diabetes (t1d) is at least in part consequence of a 'dialog' between beta-cells and immune system. this dialog may be affected by the individual's genetic background. we presently evaluated whether modulation of mda5 and ptpn2  two candidate genes for t1d  affects beta-cell responses to double-stranded rna (dsrna)  a by-product of viral replication. these genes were selected following comparison between known candidate genes for t1d and genes expressed in pancreatic beta-cells  as identified in previous array analysis. ins-1e cells and primary fluorescence-activated cell sorting-purified rat beta-cells were transfected with small interference rnas (sirnas) targeting mda5 or ptpn2 and subsequently exposed to intracellular synthetic dsrna (polyinosinic-polycitidilic acid-pic). real-time rt-pcr  western blot and viability assays were performed to characterize gene/protein expression and viability. pic increased mda5 and ptpn2 mrna expression  which was inhibited by the specific sirnas. pic triggered apoptosis in ins-1e and primary beta-cells and this was augmented by ptpn2 knockdown (kd)  although inhibition of mda5 did not modify pic-induced apoptosis. in contrast  mda5 silencing decreased pic-induced cytokine and chemokine expression  although inhibition of ptpn2 induced minor or no changes in these inflammatory mediators. these findings indicate that changes in mda5 and ptpn2 expression modify beta-cell responses to dsrna. mda5 regulates inflammatory signals  whereas ptpn2 may function as a defence mechanism against pro-apoptotic signals generated by dsrna. these two candidate genes for t1d may thus modulate beta-cell apoptosis and/or local release of inflammatory mediators in the course of a viral infection by acting  at least in part  at the pancreatic beta-cell level.
2587,loss of negative regulation by numb over notch is relevant to human breast carcinogenesis,the biological antagonism between notch and numb controls the proliferative/differentiative balance in development and homeostasis. although altered notch signaling has been linked to human diseases  including cancer  evidence for a substantial involvement of notch in human tumors has remained elusive. here  we show that numb-mediated control on notch signaling is lost in ∼50% of human mammary carcinomas  due to specific numb ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation. mechanistically  numb operates as an oncosuppressor  as its ectopic expression in numb-negative  but not in numb-positive  tumor cells inhibits proliferation. increased notch signaling is observed in numb-negative tumors  but reverts to basal levels after enforced expression of numb. conversely  numb silencing increases notch signaling in normal breast cells and in numb-positive breast tumors. finally  growth suppression of numb-negative  but not numb-positive  breast tumors can be achieved by pharmacological inhibition of notch. thus  the numb/notch biological antagonism is relevant to the homeostasis of the normal mammary parenchyma and its subversion contributes to human mammary carcinogenesis.
2589,breast cancer risk factors in relation to breast density (united states),evaluate known breast cancer risk factors in relation to breast density. we examined factors in relation to breast density in 144 018 new hampshire (nh) women with at least one mammogram recorded in a statewide mammography registry. mammographic breast density was measured by radiologists using the bi-rads classification; risk factors of interest were obtained from patient intake forms and questionnaires. initial analyses showed a strong inverse influence of age and body mass index (bmi) on breast density. in addition  women with late age at menarche  late age at first birth  premenopausal women  and those currently using hormone therapy (ht) tended to have higher breast density  while those with greater parity tended to have less dense breasts. analyses stratified on age and bmi suggested interactions  which were formally assessed in a multivariable model. the impact of current ht use  relative to nonuse  differed across age groups  with an inverse association in younger women  and a positive association in older women (p < 0.0001 for the interaction). the positive effects of age at menarche and age at first birth  and the inverse influence of parity were less apparent in women with low bmi than in those with high bmi (p = 0.04  p < 0.0001 and p = 0.01  respectively  for the interactions). we also noted stronger positive effects for age at first birth in postmenopausal women (p = 0.004 for the interaction). the multivariable model indicated a slight positive influence of family history of breast cancer. the influence of age at menarche and reproductive factors on breast density is less evident in women with high bmi. density is reduced in young women using ht  but increased in ht users of age 50 or more.
2591,article,ibd is characterized by uncontrolled immune responses in inflamed mucosa  with dominance of il-17-producing cells and deficiency of treg cells. the aim of this study was to explore the effect and mechanisms of ra  the ligand of raralpha  on immune responses in human and murine colitis. colonic biopsies from patients with uc were cultured and treated with ra as the agonist of raralpha or le135 as the antagonist of raralpha. expressions of il-17 and foxp3 were detected by immunohistochemistry. murine colitis was induced by intrarectal administration with tnbs at day 1. mice were then i.p.-treated with ra or le135 daily for 7 days. cytokine levels in the cultures of mouse lpmcs were measured. expressions of foxp3 and il-17 in colon tissues or mln were detected by immunohistological analysis. body weight and colon inflammation were evaluated. ra treatment up-regulated foxp3 expression and down-regulated il-17 expression in colon biopsies of patients and in colon tissues and mln of mice with colitis compared with controls. lpmcs from ra-treated mice produced lower levels of proinflammatory cytokines (tnf-alpha  il-1beta  il-17) but more regulatory cytokines (il-10  tgf-beta) compared with that of untreated mice. le135 showed the opposite effect of ra. furthermore  ra ameliorated tnbs-induced colitis in a dose-dependent manner  as seen by improved body weight and colon inflammation. ra down-regulates colon inflammatory responses in patients with ibd in vitro and in murine colitis in vivo  representing a potential therapeutic approach in ibd treatment.
2593,differential regulation of adherens junction dynamics during apical-basal polarization.,adherens junctions (ajs) in epithelial cells are constantly turning over to modulate adhesion properties under various physiological and developmental contexts  but how such aj dynamics are regulated during the apical-basal polarization of primary epithelia remains unclear. here  we used new and genetically validated gfp markers of drosophila e-cadherin (de-cadherin  hereafter referred to as de-cad) and β-catenin (armadillo  arm) to quantitatively assay the in vivo dynamics of biosynthetic turnover and membrane redistribution by fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (frap) assays. our data showed that membrane de-cad and arm in ajs of polarizing epithelial cells had much faster biosynthetic turnover than in polarized cells. fast biosynthetic turnover of membrane de-cad is independent of actin- and dynamin-based trafficking  but is microtubule-dependent. furthermore  arm in ajs of polarizing cells showed a faster and diffusion-based membrane redistribution that was both quantitatively and qualitatively different from the slower and exchange-based de-cad membrane distribution  indicating that the association of arm with de-cad is more dynamic in polarizing cells  and only becomes stable in polarized epithelial cells. consistently  biochemical assays showed that the binding of arm to de-cad is weaker in polarizing cells than in polarized cells. our data revealed that the molecular interaction between de-cad and arm is modulated during apical-basal polarization  suggesting a new mechanism that might be crucial for establishing apical-basal polarity through regulating the aj dynamics.
2595,inter- and intra-host viral diversity in a large seasonal denv2 outbreak,background high genetic diversity at both inter- and intra-host level are hallmarks of rna viruses due to the error-prone nature of their genome replication. several groups have evaluated the extent of viral variability using different rna virus deep sequencing methods. although much of this effort has been dedicated to pathogens that cause chronic infections in humans  few studies investigated arthropod-borne  acute viral infections. methods and principal findings we deep sequenced the complete genome of ten denv2 isolates from representative classical and severe cases sampled in a large outbreak in brazil using two different approaches. analysis of the consensus genomes confirmed the larger extent of the 2010 epidemic in comparison to a previous epidemic caused by the same viruses in another city two years before (genetic distance = 0.002 and 0.0008 respectively). analysis of viral populations within the host revealed a high level of conservation. after excluding homopolymer regions of 454/roche generated sequences  we found 10 to 44 variable sites per genome population at a frequency of >1%  resulting in very low intra-host genetic diversity. while up to 60% of all variable sites at intra-host level were non-synonymous changes  only 10% of inter-host variability resulted from non-synonymous mutations  indicative of purifying selection at the population level. conclusions and significance despite the error-prone nature of rna-dependent rna-polymerase  dengue viruses maintain low levels of intra-host variability.
2597,altered pten expression; a diagnostic marker for differentiating normal  hyperplastic and neoplastic endometrium,background different molecular alterations have been described in endometrioid endometrial carcinoma (eeca). among them the most frequently altered is loss of the pten protein  a tumor suppressor gene. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the expression pattern of pten gene in normal  hyperplastic and neoplastic endometrium. methods in a study in a referral gynecologic hospital in tehran  iran  immunohistochemical (ihc) evaluation of pten was performed on 87 consecutive specimens to the following three groups; group a- normal proliferative endometrium(n = 29); group b- hyperplastic endometrium [including simple hyperplasia without atypia(n = 21) and complex hyperplasia with atypia (n = 8)] and group c- eeca(n = 29). immunostaining of cells was analyzed by arbitrary quantitative methods according to both slide's area staining and intensity of color reaction. results pten immunoreactivity was present in all normal proliferative endometrium  all simple hyperplasia  75% of atypical complex hyperplasia and in 48% of eeca (p < 0.001). the intensity of pten reaction was significantly higher in group with proliferative endometrium than hyperplastic endometrium and eeca (p < 0.001). conclusion pten expression was significantly higher in cyclical endometrium than in atypical hyperplasia and endometrioid carcinoma.
2599,synaptic incorporation of ampa receptors during ltp is controlled by a pkc phosphorylation site on glur1,incorporation of glur1-containing ampa receptors into synapses is essential to several forms of neural plasticity  including long-term potentiation (ltp). numerous signaling pathways that trigger this process have been identified  but the direct modifications of glur1 that control its incorporation into synapses are unclear. here  we show that phosphorylation of glur1 by pkc at a highly conserved serine 818 residue is increased during ltp and critical for ltp expression. glur1 is phosphorylated by pkc at this site in vitro and in vivo. in addition  acute phosphorylation at glur1 s818 by pkc  as well as a phosphomimetic mutation  promotes glur1 synaptic incorporation. conversely  preventing glur1 s818 phosphorylation reduces ltp and blocks pkc-driven synaptic incorporation of glur1. we conclude that the phosphorylation of glur1 s818 by pkc is a critical event in the plasticity-driven synaptic incorporation of ampa receptors.
2601,bayesian selection of continuous-time markov chain evolutionary models.,we develop a reversible jump markov chain monte carlo approach to estimating the posterior distribution of phylogenies based on aligned dna/rna sequences under several hierarchical evolutionary models. using a proper  yet nontruncated and uninformative prior  we demonstrate the advantages of the bayesian approach to hypothesis testing and estimation in phylogenetics by comparing different models for the infinitesimal rates of change among nucleotides  for the number of rate classes  and for the relationships among branch lengths. we compare the relative probabilities of these models and the appropriateness of a molecular clock using bayes factors. our most general model  first proposed by tamura and nei  parameterizes the infinitesimal change probabilities among nucleotides (a  g  c  t/u) into six parameters  consisting of three parameters for the nucleotide stationary distribution  two rate parameters for nucleotide transitions  and another parameter for nucleotide transversions. nested models include the hasegawa  kishino  and yano model with equal transition rates and the kimura model with a uniform stationary distribution and equal transition rates. to illustrate our methods  we examine simulated data  16s rrna sequences from 15 contemporary eubacteria  halobacteria  eocytes  and eukaryotes  9 primates  and the entire hiv genome of 11 isolates. we find that the kimura model is too restrictive  that the hasegawa  kishino  and yano model can be rejected for some data sets  that there is evidence for more than one rate class and a molecular clock among similar taxa  and that a molecular clock can be rejected for more distantly related taxa.
2603,single-rna counting reveals alternative modes of gene expression in yeast,proper execution of transcriptional programs is a key requirement of gene expression regulation  demanding accurate control of timing and amplitude. how precisely the transcription machinery fulfills this task is not known. using an in situ hybridization approach that detects single mrna molecules  we measured mrna abundance and transcriptional activity within single saccharomyces cerevisiae cells. we found that expression levels for particular genes are higher than initially reported and can vary substantially among cells. however  variability for most constitutively expressed genes is unexpectedly small. combining single-transcript measurements with computational modeling indicates that low expression variation is achieved by transcribing genes using single transcription-initiation events that are clearly separated in time  rather than by transcriptional bursts. in contrast  pdr5  a gene regulated by the transcription coactivator complex saga  is expressed using transcription bursts  resulting in larger variation. these data directly demonstrate the existence of multiple expression modes used to modulate the transcriptome.
2605,preventing coronary heart disease: b vitamins and homocysteine.,the list of preventable and reversible risk factors for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease continues to grow. cigarette smoking  high blood pressure  physical inactivity  elevated cholesterol  underlying lipoprotein abnormalities  lipoprotein(a)  diabetes  overweight  male gender  and age are well-established risk factors. during the 1990s  there have been many reports associating elevated plasma homocysteine levels with arteriosclerotic cardiovascular disease and consistent evidence that dietary and supplemental folic acid can reduce homocysteine levels.1 2   the article by robinson and colleagues3 in this issue of circulation presents further evidence of the importance of homocysteine and suggestive evidence that plasma folate and plasma pyrixodal-l-phosphate (vitamin b6) are protective factors. their study is part of the european concerted action project 4 which examined 750 patients younger than age 60 with diagnoses within the previous 12 months of coronary  cerebrovascular  or peripheral vascular disease and 800 healthy control subjects. the patient groups were young (47 years for cases and 44 years for control subjects) and heterogeneous  with nonfatal clinical events or symptoms of arteriosclerotic cardiovascular disease supported by ecg  angiographic  or doppler evidence; the study involved 19 centers in nine european countries. men in the highest quintile for fasting total homocysteine (thcy)  compared with the remainder of the population  had an estimated relative risk of 2.2 (95% confidence interval [ci]  1.6 to 2.9)  with a striking dose-response relationship and a more-than-multiplicative interaction with cigarette smoking and high blood pressure on vascular disease risk4 ; the corresponding estimated relative risk for coronary heart disease was similar (2.0; 95% ci 1.6 to 2.8). (thcy is the sum of homocysteine and homocysteinyl moieties of oxidized disulfides  homocystine  and cysteine- homocysteine. ) robinson and colleagues3 examined three b vitamins in detail to determine their effects on fasting and post–methionine-loading thcy levels and any independent effects on cardiovascular disease …
2607,sex-specific effects of the daf-12 steroid receptor on aging in caenorhabditis elegans.,sex differences in longevity and aging are seen throughout the animal kingdom. these are likely to result  in part  from sex differences in endocrinology. in the nematode caenorhabditis elegans  males are the longer-lived sex. here we explore the possibility that sex differences in insulin/insulin-like growth factor 1 (igf-1) and steroid endocrinology contribute to this sex difference in aging by studying c. elegans populations in liquid culture. we report that in hermaphrodite populations  mutational loss of the daf-12 steroid receptor affected life span as in previous plate-culture studies: mutant longevity is suppressed in a weak daf-2 insulin/igf-1 receptor mutant but enhanced in a stronger daf-2 mutant. however  in males  mutation of daf-12 had little effect on aging in either weak or strong daf-2 mutants. moreover  while mutation of daf-12 marginally reduced life span in daf-2(+) hermaphrodites  as in plate-cultured populations  it did not in daf-2(+) males. these results could imply that in c. elegans  as in mammals  sex differences in steroid endocrinology contribute to sex differences in aging.
2609,sequential signals toward podosome formation in nih-src cells,podosomes (also termed invadopodia in cancer cells) are actin-rich adhesion structures with matrix degradation activity that develop in various cell types. despite their significant physiological importance  the molecular mechanism of podosome formation is largely unknown. in this study  we investigated the molecular mechanisms of podosome formation. the expression of various phosphoinositide-binding domains revealed that the podosomes in src-transformed nih3t3 (nih-src) cells are enriched with ptdins(3 4)p2  suggesting an important role of this phosphoinositide in podosome formation. live-cell imaging analysis revealed that src-expression stimulated podosome formation at focal adhesions of nih3t3 cells after ptdins(3 4)p2 accumulation. the adaptor protein tks5/fish  which is essential for podosome formation  was found to form a complex with grb2 at adhesion sites in an src-dependent manner. further  it was found that n-wasp bound all sh3 domains of tks5/fish  which facilitated circular podosome formation. these results indicate that augmentation of the n-wasp-arp2/3 signal was accomplished on the platform of tks5/fish-grb2 complex at focal adhesions  which is stabilized by ptdins(3 4)p2.
2611,reprogramming of human fibroblasts to pluripotency with lineage specifiers.,since the initial discovery that oct4  sox2  klf4  and c-myc overexpression sufficed for the induction of pluripotency in somatic cells  methodologies replacing the original factors have enhanced our understanding of the reprogramming process. however  unlike in mouse  oct4 has not been replaced successfully during reprogramming of human cells. here we report on a strategy to accomplish this replacement. through a combination of transcriptome and bioinformatic analysis we have identified factors previously characterized as being lineage specifiers that are able to replace oct4 and sox2 in the reprogramming of human fibroblasts. our results show that it is possible to replace oct4 and sox2 simultaneously with alternative lineage specifiers in the reprogramming of human cells. at a broader level  they also support a model in which counteracting lineage specification networks underlies the induction of pluripotency.
2613,birth size and breast cancer risk: re-analysis of individual participant data from 32 studies,background birth size  perhaps a proxy for prenatal environment  might be a correlate of subsequent breast cancer risk  but findings from epidemiological studies have been inconsistent. we re-analysed individual participant data from published and unpublished studies to obtain more precise estimates of the magnitude and shape of the birth size-breast cancer association. methods and findings studies were identified through computer-assisted and manual searches  and personal communication with investigators. individual participant data from 32 studies  comprising 22 058 breast cancer cases  were obtained. random effect models were used  if appropriate  to combine study-specific estimates of effect. birth weight was positively associated with breast cancer risk in studies based on birth records (pooled relative risk [rr] per one standard deviation [sd] [= 0.5 kg] increment in birth weight: 1.06; 95% confidence interval [ci] 1.02-1.09) and parental recall when the participants were children (1.02; 95% ci 0.99-1.05)  but not in those based on adult self-reports  or maternal recall during the woman's adulthood (0.98; 95% ci 0.95-1.01) (p for heterogeneity between data sources = 0.003). relative to women who weighed 3.000-3.499 kg  the risk was 0.96 (ci 0.80-1.16) in those who weighed < 2.500 kg  and 1.12 (95% ci 1.00-1.25) in those who weighed > or = 4.000 kg (p for linear trend = 0.001) in birth record data. birth length and head circumference from birth records were also positively associated with breast cancer risk (pooled rr per one sd increment: 1.06 [95% ci 1.03-1.10] and 1.09 [95% ci 1.03-1.15]  respectively). simultaneous adjustment for these three birth size variables showed that length was the strongest independent predictor of risk. the birth size effects did not appear to be confounded or mediated by established breast cancer risk factors and were not modified by age or menopausal status. the cumulative incidence of breast cancer per 100 women by age 80 y in the study populations was estimated to be 10.0  10.0  10.4  and 11.5 in those who were  respectively  in the bottom  second  third  and top fourths of the birth length distribution. conclusions this pooled analysis of individual participant data is consistent with birth size  and in particular birth length  being an independent correlate of breast cancer risk in adulthood.
2615,modification of kidney barrier function by the urokinase receptor,podocyte dysfunction  represented by foot process effacement and proteinuria  is often the starting point for progressive kidney disease. therapies aimed at the cellular level of the disease are currently not available. here we show that induction of urokinase receptor (upar) signaling in podocytes leads to foot process effacement and urinary protein loss via a mechanism that includes lipid-dependent activation of αvβ3 integrin. mice lacking upar (plaur−/−) are protected from lipopolysaccharide (lps)-mediated proteinuria but develop disease after expression of a constitutively active β3 integrin. gene transfer studies reveal a prerequisite for upar expression in podocytes  but not in endothelial cells  for the development of lps-mediated proteinuria. mechanistically  upar is required to activate αvβ3 integrin in podocytes  promoting cell motility and activation of the small gtpases cdc42 and rac1. blockade of αvβ3 integrin reduces podocyte motility in vitro and lowers proteinuria in mice. our findings show a physiological role for upar signaling in the regulation of kidney permeability.
2617,an extensive microrna-mediated network of rna-rna interactions regulates established oncogenic pathways in glioblastoma,by analyzing gene expression data in glioblastoma in combination with matched microrna profiles  we have uncovered a posttranscriptional regulation layer of surprising magnitude  comprising more than 248 000 microrna (mir)-mediated interactions. these include ∼7 000 genes whose transcripts act as mir "sponges" and 148 genes that act through alternative  nonsponge interactions. biochemical analyses in cell lines confirmed that this network regulates established drivers of tumor initiation and subtype implementation  including pten  pdgfra  rb1  vegfa  stat3  and runx1  suggesting that these interactions mediate crosstalk between canonical oncogenic pathways. sirna silencing of 13 mir-mediated pten regulators  whose locus deletions are predictive of pten expression variability  was sufficient to downregulate pten in a 3'utr-dependent manner and to increase tumor cell growth rates. thus  mir-mediated interactions provide a mechanistic  experimentally validated rationale for the loss of pten expression in a large number of glioma samples with an intact pten locus.
2619,tissue-specific knockout of the insulin receptor in pancreatic β cells creates an insulin secretory defect similar to that in type 2 diabetes,dysfunction of the pancreatic beta cell is an important defect in the pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes  although its exact relationship to the insulin resistance is unclear. to determine whether insulin signaling has a functional role in the beta cell we have used the cre-loxp system to specifically inactivate the insulin receptor gene in the beta cells. the resultant mice exhibit a selective loss of insulin secretion in response to glucose and a progressive impairment of glucose tolerance. these data indicate an important functional role for the insulin receptor in glucose sensing by the pancreatic beta cell and suggest that defects in insulin signaling at the level of the beta cell may contribute to the observed alterations in insulin secretion in type 2 diabetes.
2621,identification of gene positioning factors using high-throughput imaging mapping,genomes are arranged non-randomly in the 3d space of the cell nucleus. here  we have developed hipmap  a high-precision  high-throughput  automated fluorescent in situ hybridization imaging pipeline  for mapping of the spatial location of genome regions at large scale. high-throughput imaging position mapping (hipmap) enabled an unbiased sirna screen for factors involved in genome organization in human cells. we identify 50 cellular factors required for proper positioning of a set of functionally diverse genomic loci. positioning factors include chromatin remodelers  histone modifiers  and nuclear envelope and pore proteins. components of the replication and post-replication chromatin re-assembly machinery are prominently represented among positioning factors  and timely progression of cells through replication  but not mitosis  is required for correct gene positioning. our results establish a method for the large-scale mapping of genome locations and have led to the identification of a compendium of cellular factors involved in spatial genome organization.
2623,effect of smoking reduction on lung cancer risk.,context many smokers are unable or unwilling to completely quit smoking. a proposed means of harm reduction is to reduce the number of cigarettes smoked per day. however  it is not clear whether this strategy decreases the risk for tobacco-related diseases. objective to assess the effects of smoking reduction on lung cancer incidence. design  setting  and participants observational population-based cohort study with up to 31 years of follow-up from the copenhagen centre for prospective population studies  which administrates data from 3 longitudinal studies conducted in copenhagen and suburbs  the copenhagen city heart study  the copenhagen male study  and the glostrup population studies  denmark. participants were 11 151 men and 8563 women (n = 19 714) aged 20 to 93 years  who attended 2 consecutive examinations with a 5- to 10-year interval between 1964 and 1988. participants underwent a physical examination and completed self-filled questionnaires about lifestyle habits. the study population was divided into 6 groups according to smoking habits: continued heavy smokers (> or =15 cigarettes/d)  reducers (reduced from > or =15 cigarettes/d by minimum of 50% without quitting)  continued light smokers (1-14 cigarettes/d)  quitters (stopped between first and second examination)  stable ex-smokers  and never smokers. main outcome measure incident primary lung cancer cases assessed by record linkage with the national cancer registry until december 31  2003. results there were 864 incident lung cancers during follow-up. using cox regression  the adjusted hazard ratio (hr) for lung cancer in reducers was 0.73 (95% confidence interval [ci]  0.54-0.98) compared with persistent heavy smokers. the hr for light smokers was 0.44 (95% ci  0.35-0.56); for quitters  hr 0.50 (95% ci  0.36-0.69)  for stable ex-smokers  hr 0.17 (95% ci  0.13-0.23)  and for never smokers  hr 0.09 (95% ci  0.06-0.13). conclusion among individuals who smoke 15 or more cigarettes per day  smoking reduction by 50% significantly reduces the risk of lung cancer.
2625,                phenix: a comprehensive python-based system for macromolecular structure solution,macromolecular x-ray crystallography is routinely applied to understand biological processes at a molecular level. however  significant time and effort are still required to solve and complete many of these structures because of the need for manual interpretation of complex numerical data using many software packages and the repeated use of interactive three-dimensional graphics. phenix has been developed to provide a comprehensive system for macromolecular crystallographic structure solution with an emphasis on the automation of all procedures. this has relied on the development of algorithms that minimize or eliminate subjective input  the development of algorithms that automate procedures that are traditionally performed by hand and  finally  the development of a framework that allows a tight integration between the algorithms.
2627,targeting brca1 and brca2 deficiencies with g-quadruplex-interacting compounds,g-quadruplex (g4)-forming genomic sequences  including telomeres  represent natural replication fork barriers. stalled replication forks can be stabilized and restarted by homologous recombination (hr)  which also repairs dna double-strand breaks (dsbs) arising at collapsed forks. we have previously shown that hr facilitates telomere replication. here  we demonstrate that the replication efficiency of guanine-rich (g-rich) telomeric repeats is decreased significantly in cells lacking hr. treatment with the g4-stabilizing compound pyridostatin (pds) increases telomere fragility in brca2-deficient cells  suggesting that g4 formation drives telomere instability. remarkably  pds reduces proliferation of hr-defective cells by inducing dsb accumulation  checkpoint activation  and deregulated g2/m progression and by enhancing the replication defect intrinsic to hr deficiency. pds toxicity extends to hr-defective cells that have acquired olaparib resistance through loss of 53bp1 or rev7. altogether  these results highlight the therapeutic potential of g4-stabilizing drugs to selectively eliminate hr-compromised cells and tumors  including those resistant to parp inhibition.
2629,receptor tyrosine kinases endocytosis in endothelium: biology and signaling.,receptor tyrosine kinases are involved in regulation of key processes in endothelial biology  including proliferation  migration  and angiogenesis. it is now generally accepted that receptor tyrosine kinase signaling occurs intracellularly and on the plasma membrane  although many important details remain to be worked out. endocytosis and subsequent intracellular trafficking spatiotemporally regulate receptor tyrosine kinase signaling  whereas signaling endosomes provide a platform for the compartmentalization of signaling events. this review summarizes recent advances in our understanding of endothelial receptor tyrosine kinase endocytosis and signaling using vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2 as a paradigm.
2631,feature selection with the boruta package,this article describes a r package boruta  implementing a novel feature selection algorithm for finding emph{all relevant variables}. the algorithm is designed as a wrapper around a random forest classification algorithm. it iteratively removes the features which are proved by a statistical test to be less relevant than random probes. the boruta package provides a convenient interface to the algorithm. the short description of the algorithm and examples of its application are presented.
2633,functional and molecular defects of pancreatic islets in human type 2 diabetes.,to shed further light on the primary alterations of insulin secretion in type 2 diabetes and the possible mechanisms involved  we studied several functional and molecular properties of islets isolated from the pancreata of 13 type 2 diabetic and 13 matched nondiabetic cadaveric organ donors. glucose-stimulated insulin secretion from type 2 diabetic islets was significantly lower than from control islets  whereas arginine- and glibenclamide-stimulated insulin release was less markedly affected. the defects were accompanied by reduced mrna expression of glut1 and -2 and glucokinase and by diminished glucose oxidation. in addition  amp-activated protein kinase activation was reduced. furthermore  the expression of insulin was decreased  and that of pancreatic duodenal homeobox-1 (pdx-1) and forkhead box o1 (foxo-1) was increased. nitrotyrosine and 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine concentrations  markers of oxidative stress  were significantly higher in type 2 diabetic than control islets  and they were correlated with the degree of glucose-stimulated insulin release impairment. accordingly  24-h exposure to glutathione significantly improved glucose-stimulated insulin release and decreased nitrotyrosine concentration  with partial recovery of insulin mrna expression. these results provide direct evidence that the defects of insulin secretion in type 2 diabetic islets are associated with multiple islet cell alterations. most importantly  the current study shows that the functional impairment of type 2 diabetic islets can be  at least in part  reversible. in this regard  it is suggested that reducing islet cell oxidative stress is a potential target of human type 2 diabetes therapy.
2635,reprogramming factor stoichiometry influences the epigenetic state and biological properties of induced pluripotent stem cells.,we compared two genetically highly defined transgenic systems to identify parameters affecting reprogramming of somatic cells to a pluripotent state. our results demonstrate that the level and stoichiometry of reprogramming factors during the reprogramming process strongly influence the resulting pluripotency of ips cells. high expression of oct4 and klf4 combined with lower expression of c-myc and sox2 produced ips cells that efficiently generated "all-ipsc mice" by tetraploid (4n) complementation  maintained normal imprinting at the dlk1-dio3 locus  and did not create mice with tumors. loss of imprinting (loi) at the dlk1-dio3 locus did not strictly correlate with reduced pluripotency though the efficiency of generating "all-ipsc mice" was diminished. our data indicate that stoichiometry of reprogramming factors can influence epigenetic and biological properties of ips cells. this concept complicates efforts to define a "generic" epigenetic state of ipscs and escs and should be considered when comparing different ips and es cell lines.
2637,bcl-6 represses genes that function in lymphocyte differentiation  inflammation  and cell cycle control.,bcl-6  a transcriptional repressor frequently translocated in lymphomas  regulates germinal center b cell differentiation and inflammation. dna microarray screening identified genes repressed by bcl-6  including many lymphocyte activation genes  suggesting that bcl-6 modulates b cell receptor signals. bcl-6 repression of two chemokine genes  mip-1alpha and ip-10  may also attenuate inflammatory responses. blimp-1  another bcl-6 target  is important for plasmacytic differentiation. since bcl-6 expression is silenced in plasma cells  repression of blimp-1 by bcl-6 may control plasmacytic differentiation. indeed  inhibition of bcl-6 function initiated changes indicative of plasmacytic differentiation  including decreased expression of c-myc and increased expression of the cell cycle inhibitor p27kip1. these data suggest that malignant transformation by bcl-6 involves inhibition of differentiation and enhanced proliferation.
2639,drosophila mical regulates myofilament organization and synaptic structure,the overall size and structure of a synaptic terminal is an important determinant of its function. in a large-scale mutagenesis screen  designed to identify drosophila mutants with abnormally structured neuromuscular junctions (nmjs)  we discovered mutations in drosophila mical  a conserved gene encoding a multi-domain protein with a n-terminal monooxygenase domain. in mical mutants  synaptic boutons do not sprout normally over the muscle surface and tend to form clusters along synaptic branches and at nerve entry sites. consistent with high expression of mical in somatic muscles  immunohistochemical stainings reveal that the subcellular localization and architecture of contractile muscle filaments are dramatically disturbed in mical mutants. instead of being integrated into a regular sarcomeric pattern  actin and myosin filaments are disorganized and accumulate beneath the plasmamembrane. whereas contractile elements are strongly deranged  the proposed organizer of sarcomeric structure  d-titin  is much less affected. transgenic expression of interfering rna molecules demonstrates that mical is required in muscles for the higher order arrangement of myofilaments. ultrastructural analysis confirms that myosin-rich thick filaments enter submembranous regions and interfere with synaptic development  indicating that the disorganized myofilaments may cause the synaptic growth phenotype. as a model  we suggest that the filamentous network around synaptic boutons restrains the spreading of synaptic branches.
2641,microrna-22 (mir-22) overexpression is neuroprotective via general anti-apoptotic effects and may also target specific huntington’s disease-related mechanisms,background whereas many causes and mechanisms of neurodegenerative diseases have been identified  very few therapeutic strategies have emerged in parallel. one possible explanation is that successful treatment strategy may require simultaneous targeting of more than one molecule of pathway. a new therapeutic approach to have emerged recently is the engagement of micrornas (mirnas)  which affords the opportunity to target multiple cellular pathways simultaneously using a single sequence. methodology/principal findings we identified mir-22 as a potentially neuroprotective mirna based on its predicted regulation of several targets implicated in huntington's disease (histone deacetylase 4 (hdac4)  rest corepresor 1 (rcor1) and regulator of g-protein signaling 2 (rgs2)) and its diminished expression in huntington's and alzheimer's disease brains. we then tested the hypothesis that increasing cellular levels of mirna-22 would achieve neuroprotection in in vitro models of neurodegeneration. as predicted  overexpression of mir-22 inhibited neurodegeneration in primary striatal and cortical cultures exposed to a mutated human huntingtin fragment (htt171-82q). overexpression of mir-22 also decreased neurodegeneration in primary neuronal cultures exposed to 3-nitropropionic acid (3-np)  a mitochondrial complex ii/iii inhibitor. in addition  mir-22 improved neuronal viability in an in vitro model of brain aging. the mechanisms underlying the effects of mir-22 included a reduction in caspase activation  consistent with mir-22's targeting the pro-apoptotic activities of mitogen-activated protein kinase 14/p38 (mapk14/p38) and tumor protein p53-inducible nuclear protein 1 (tp53inp1). moreover  hd-specific effects comprised not only targeting hdac4  rcor1 and rgs2 mrnas  but also decreasing focal accumulation of mutant htt-positive foci  which occurred via an unknown mechanism. conclusions these data show that mir-22 has multipartite anti-neurodegenerative activities including the inhibition of apoptosis and the targeting of mrnas implicated in the etiology of hd. these results motivate additional studies to evaluate the feasibility and therapeutic efficacy of manipulating mir-22 in vivo.
2643,genome-wide dynamics of htz1  a histone h2a variant that poises repressed/basal promoters for activation through histone loss,histone variants help specialize chromatin regions; however  their impact on transcriptional regulation is largely unknown. here  we determined the genome-wide localization and dynamics of htz1  the yeast histone h2a variant. htz1 localizes to hundreds of repressed/basal pol ii promoters and prefers tata-less promoters. specific htz1 deposition requires the swr1 complex  which largely colocalizes with htz1. htz1 occupancy correlates with particular histone modifications  and htz1 deposition is partially reliant on gcn5 (a histone acetyltransferase) and bdf1  an swr1 complex member that binds acetylated histones. changes in growth conditions cause a striking redistribution of htz1 from activated to repressed/basal promoters. furthermore  htz1 promotes full gene activation but does not generally impact repression. importantly  htz1 releases from purified chromatin in vitro under conditions where h2a and h3 remain associated. we suggest that htz1-bearing nucleosomes are deposited at repressed/basal promoters but facilitate activation through their susceptibility to loss  thereby helping to expose promoter dna.
2645,hmga2 promotes neural stem cell self-renewal in young but not old mice by reducing p16ink4a and p19arf expression,stem cells persist throughout life in diverse tissues by undergoing self-renewing divisions. self-renewal capacity declines with age  partly because of increasing expression of the tumor suppressor p16(ink4a). we discovered that the hmga2 transcriptional regulator is highly expressed in fetal neural stem cells but that expression declines with age. this decrease is partly caused by the increasing expression of let-7b microrna  which is known to target hmga2. hmga2-deficient mice show reduced stem cell numbers and self-renewal throughout the central and peripheral nervous systems of fetal and young-adult mice but not old-adult mice. furthermore  p16(ink4a) and p19(arf) expression were increased in hmga2-deficient fetal and young-adult stem cells  and deletion of p16(ink4a) and/or p19(arf) partially restored self-renewal capacity. let-7b overexpression reduced hmga2 and increased p16(ink4a)/p19(arf) expression. hmga2 thus promotes fetal and young-adult stem cell self-renewal by decreasing p16(ink4a)/p19(arf) expression. changes in let-7 and hmga2 expression during aging contribute to the decline in neural stem cell function.
2647,gemcitabine chemoresistance and molecular markers associated with gemcitabine transport and metabolism in human pancreatic cancer cells,to identify predictive molecular markers for gemcitabine resistance  we investigated changes in the expression of four genes associated with gemcitabine transport and metabolism during the development of acquired gemcitabine resistance of pancreatic cancer cell lines. the expression levels of human equilibrative nucleoside transporter-1 (hent1)  deoxycytidine kinase (dck)  rrm1  and rrm2 mrna were analysed by real-time light cycler-pcr in various subclones during the development of acquired resistance to gemcitabine. real-time light cycler-pcr demonstrated that the expression levels of either rrm1 or rrm2 progressively increased during the development of gemcitabine resistance. expression of dck was slightly increased in cells resistant to lower concentrations of gemcitabine  but was decreased below the undetectable level in higher concentration-resistant subclones. expression of hent1 was increased in the development of gemcitabine resistance. as acquired resistance to gemcitabine seems to correlate with the balance of these four factors  we calculated the ratio of hent1 × dck/rrm1 × rrm2 gene expression in gemcitabine-resistant subclones. the ratio of gene expression decreased progressively with development of acquired resistance in gemcitabine-resistant subclones. furthermore  the expression ratio significantly correlated with gemcitabine sensitivity in eight pancreatic cancer cell lines  whereas no single gene expression level correlated with the sensitivity. these results suggest that the sensitivity of pancreatic cancer cells to gemcitabine is determined by the ratio of four factors involved in gemcitabine transport and metabolism. the ratio of the four gene expression levels correlates with acquired gemcitabine-resistance in pancreatic cancer cells  and may be useful as a predictive marker for the efficacy of gemcitabine therapy in pancreatic cancer patients.
2649,sprouty1 regulates reversible quiescence of a self-renewing adult muscle stem cell pool during regeneration,satellite cells are skeletal muscle stem cells capable of self-renewal and differentiation after transplantation  but whether they contribute to endogenous muscle fiber repair has been unclear. the transcription factor pax7 marks satellite cells and is critical for establishing the adult satellite cell pool. by using a lineage tracing approach  we show that after injury  quiescent adult pax7(+) cells enter the cell cycle; a subpopulation returns to quiescence to replenish the satellite cell compartment  while others contribute to muscle fiber formation. we demonstrate that sprouty1 (spry1)  a receptor tyrosine kinase signaling inhibitor  is expressed in quiescent pax7(+) satellite cells in uninjured muscle  downregulated in proliferating myogenic cells after injury  and reinduced as pax7(+) cells re-enter quiescence. we show that spry1 is required for the return to quiescence and homeostasis of the satellite cell pool during repair. our results therefore define a role for spry1 in adult muscle stem cell biology and tissue repair.
2651,phosphorylation of centromeric histone h3 variant regulates chromosome segregation in saccharomyces cerevisiae,the centromeric histone h3 variant (cenh3) is essential for chromosome segregation in eukaryotes. we identify posttranslational modifications of saccharomyces cerevisiae cenh3  cse4. functional characterization of cse4 phosphorylation mutants shows growth and chromosome segregation defects when combined with kinetochore mutants okp1 and ame1. using a phosphoserine-specific antibody  we show that the association of phosphorylated cse4 with centromeres increases in response to defective microtubule attachment or reduced cohesion. we determine that evolutionarily conserved ipl1/aurora b contributes to phosphorylation of cse4  as levels of phosphorylated cse4 are reduced at centromeres in ipl1 strains in vivo  and in vitro assays show phosphorylation of cse4 by ipl1. consistent with these results  we observe that a phosphomimetic cse4-4sd mutant suppresses the temperature-sensitive growth of ipl1-2 and ipl1 substrate mutants dam1 spc34 and ndc80  which are defective for chromosome biorientation. furthermore  cell biology approaches using a green fluorescent protein-labeled chromosome show that cse4-4sd suppresses chromosome segregation defects in dam1 spc34 strains. on the basis of these results  we propose that phosphorylation of cse4 destabilizes defective kinetochores to promote biorientation and ensure faithful chromosome segregation. taken together  our results provide a detailed analysis  in vivo and in vitro  of cse4 phosphorylation and its role in promoting faithful chromosome segregation.
2653,replicative aging in yeast: the means to the end.,progress in aging research is now rapid  and surprisingly  studies in a single-celled eukaryote are a driving force. the genetic modulators of replicative life span in yeast are being identified  the molecular events that accompany aging are being discovered  and the extent to which longevity pathways are conserved between yeast and multicellular eukaryotes is being tested. in this review  we provide a brief retrospective view on the development of yeast as a model for aging and then turn to recent discoveries that have pushed aging research into novel directions and also linked aging in yeast to well-developed hypotheses in mammals. although the question of what causes aging still cannot be answered definitively  that day may be rapidly approaching.
2655,prediction of chemical-protein interactions network with weighted network-based inference method,chemical-protein interaction (cpi) is the central topic of target identification and drug discovery. however  large scale determination of cpi is a big challenge for in vitro or in vivo experiments  while in silico prediction shows great advantages due to low cost and high accuracy. on the basis of our previous drug-target interaction prediction via network-based inference (nbi) method  we further developed node- and edge-weighted nbi methods for cpi prediction here. two comprehensive cpi bipartite networks extracted from chembl database were used to evaluate the methods  one containing 17 111 cpi pairs between 4 741 compounds and 97 g protein-coupled receptors  the other including 13 648 cpi pairs between 2 827 compounds and 206 kinases. the range of the area under receiver operating characteristic curves was 0.73 to 0.83 for the external validation sets  which confirmed the reliability of the prediction. the weak-interaction hypothesis in cpi network was identified by the edge-weighted nbi method. moreover  to validate the methods  several candidate targets were predicted for five approved drugs  namely imatinib  dasatinib  sertindole  olanzapine and ziprasidone. the molecular hypotheses and experimental evidence for these predictions were further provided. these results confirmed that our methods have potential values in understanding molecular basis of drug polypharmacology and would be helpful for drug repositioning.
2657,cell stem cell review foxo transcription factors and stem cell homeostasis: insights from the hematopoietic system,the forkhead o (foxo) family of transcription factors participates in diverse physiologic processes  including induction of cell-cycle arrest  stress resistance  differentiation  apoptosis  and metabolism. several recent studies indicate that foxo-dependent signaling is required for long-term regenerative potential of the hematopoietic stem cell (hsc) compartment through regulation of hsc response to physiologic oxidative stress  quiescence  and survival. these observations link foxo function in mammalian systems with the evolutionarily conserved role of foxo in promotion of stress resistance and longevity in lower phylogenetic systems. furthermore  these findings have implications for aging in higher organisms and in malignant stem cell biology  and suggest that foxos may play an important role in the maintenance and integrity of stem cell compartments in a broad spectrum of tissues.
2659,the association between single-nucleotide polymorphisms of orai1 gene and breast cancer in a taiwanese population,background breast cancer is the most common malignancy in women. there is increasing evidence suggesting that orai1  components of store-operated calcium channel  play a pivotal role in breast cancer progression and metastasis. methods a total of 384 female patients with breast cancer were included in this study. we selected five representative tagging orai1 snps from hapmap database with minimum allele frequency (maf) >10%. genotyping was performed using taqman allelic discrimination assay. chi-square (χ²) test was used to analyze statistical differences among control and patient groups in genotype and allelic frequencies. results two of the orai1 snps (rs12320939 and rs12313273) were associated with estrogen receptors positive in breast cancer patients under the recessive model. when the bonferroni correction was performed  the significance still existed. in addition  rs12320939 also associated with the lymph nodal involvement. conclusion we showed that genetic polymorphisms of orai1 associated strongly with lymph nodal involvement and estrogen receptors (ers) positive breast cancer patients in a taiwanese population.
2661,the ndc80 kinetochore complex forms load-bearing attachments to dynamic microtubule tips via biased diffusion,kinetochores couple chromosomes to the assembling and disassembling tips of microtubules  a dynamic behavior that is fundamental to mitosis in all eukaryotes but poorly understood. genetic  biochemical  and structural studies implicate the ndc80 complex as a direct point of contact between kinetochores and microtubules  but these approaches provide only a static view. here  using techniques for manipulating and tracking individual molecules in vitro  we demonstrate that the ndc80 complex is capable of forming the dynamic  load-bearing attachments to assembling and disassembling tips required for coupling in vivo. we also establish that ndc80-based coupling likely occurs through a biased diffusion mechanism and that this activity is conserved from yeast to humans. our findings demonstrate how an ensemble of ndc80 complexes may provide the combination of plasticity and strength that allows kinetochores to maintain load-bearing tip attachments during both microtubule assembly and disassembly.
2663,kidney paired donation and optimizing the use of live donor organs.,context blood type and crossmatch incompatibility will exclude at least one third of patients in need from receiving a live donor kidney transplant. kidney paired donation (kpd) offers incompatible donor/recipient pairs the opportunity to match for compatible transplants. despite its increasing popularity  very few transplants have resulted from kpd. objective to determine the potential impact of improved matching schemes on the number and quality of transplants achievable with kpd. design  setting  and population we developed a model that simulates pools of incompatible donor/recipient pairs. we designed a mathematically verifiable optimized matching algorithm and compared it with the scheme currently used in some centers and regions. simulated patients from the general community with characteristics drawn from distributions describing end-stage renal disease patients eligible for renal transplantation and their willing and eligible live donors. main outcome measures number of kidneys matched  hla mismatch of matched kidneys  and number of grafts surviving 5 years after transplantation. results a national optimized matching algorithm would result in more transplants (47.7% vs 42.0%  p<.001)  better hla concordance (3.0 vs 4.5 mismatched antigens; p<.001)  more grafts surviving at 5 years (34.9% vs 28.7%; p<.001)  and a reduction in the number of pairs required to travel (2.9% vs 18.4%; p<.001) when compared with an extension of the currently used first-accept scheme to a national level. furthermore  highly sensitized patients would benefit 6-fold from a national optimized scheme (2.3% vs 14.1% successfully matched; p<.001). even if only 7% of patients awaiting kidney transplantation participated in an optimized national kpd program  the health care system could save as much as $750 million. conclusions the combination of a national kpd program and a mathematically optimized matching algorithm yields more matches with lower hla disparity. optimized matching affords patients the flexibility of customizing their matching priorities and the security of knowing that the greatest number of high-quality matches will be found and distributed equitably.
2665,comparative determinants of 4-year cardiovascular event rates in stable outpatients at risk of or with atherothrombosis.,context clinicians and trialists have difficulty with identifying which patients are highest risk for cardiovascular events. prior ischemic events  polyvascular disease  and diabetes mellitus have all been identified as predictors of ischemic events  but their comparative contributions to future risk remain unclear. objective to categorize the risk of cardiovascular events in stable outpatients with various initial manifestations of atherothrombosis using simple clinical descriptors. design  setting  and patients outpatients with coronary artery disease  cerebrovascular disease  or peripheral arterial disease or with multiple risk factors for atherothrombosis were enrolled in the global reduction of atherothrombosis for continued health (reach) registry and were followed up for as long as 4 years. patients from 3647 centers in 29 countries were enrolled between 2003 and 2004 and followed up until 2008. final database lock was in april 2009. main outcome measures rates of cardiovascular death  myocardial infarction  and stroke. results a total of 45 227 patients with baseline data were included in this 4-year analysis. during the follow-up period  a total of 5481 patients experienced at least 1 event  including 2315 with cardiovascular death  1228 with myocardial infarction  1898 with stroke  and 40 with both a myocardial infarction and stroke on the same day. among patients with atherothrombosis  those with a prior history of ischemic events at baseline (n = 21 890) had the highest rate of subsequent ischemic events (18.3%; 95% confidence interval [ci]  17.4%-19.1%); patients with stable coronary  cerebrovascular  or peripheral artery disease (n = 15 264) had a lower risk (12.2%; 95% ci  11.4%-12.9%); and patients without established atherothrombosis but with risk factors only (n = 8073) had the lowest risk (9.1%; 95% ci  8.3%-9.9%) (p < .001 for all comparisons). in addition  in multivariable modeling  the presence of diabetes (hazard ratio [hr]  1.44; 95% ci  1.36-1.53; p < .001)  an ischemic event in the previous year (hr  1.71; 95% ci  1.57-1.85; p < .001)  and polyvascular disease (hr  1.99; 95% ci  1.78-2.24; p < .001) each were associated with a significantly higher risk of the primary end point. conclusion clinical descriptors can assist clinicians in identifying high-risk patients within the broad range of risk for outpatients with atherothrombosis.
2667,notch signaling: cell fate control and signal integration in development.,notch signaling defines an evolutionarily ancient cell interaction mechanism  which plays a fundamental role in metazoan development. signals exchanged between neighboring cells through the notch receptor can amplify and consolidate molecular differences  which eventually dictate cell fates. thus  notch signals control how cells respond to intrinsic or extrinsic developmental cues that are necessary to unfold specific developmental programs. notch activity affects the implementation of differentiation  proliferation  and apoptotic programs  providing a general developmental tool to influence organ formation and morphogenesis.
2669,clinical use of bone densitometry: scientific review.,context osteoporosis causes substantial morbidity and costs $13.8 billion annually in the united states. measurement of bone mass by densitometry is a primary part of diagnosing osteoporosis and deciding a preventive treatment course. bone mineral densitometry has become more widely available and commonly used in practice. objective to review evidence about the value of various clinical applications of bone densitometry. data sources a medline search was performed to update previous meta-analyses of the relationship between various measurements of bone density and risk of vertebral and hip fracture. we used data from the prospective study of osteoporotic fractures to estimate risk of fracture from bone density and age in postmenopausal women. study selection and data extraction when available  meta-analyses and systematic reviews are emphasized in the review. data synthesis bone mineral density (bmd) predicts fracture and can be used in combination with age to estimate absolute risk of fractures in postmenopausal white women. hip bmd predicts hip fracture more strongly than other measurements of bmd. there are insufficient data to translate bmd results into risk of fracture for men and nonwhite women. the benefits of treatments to prevent fractures depend on bmd: women with osteoporosis have a greater risk of fractures and greater benefit from treatments than women without osteoporosis. conclusions guidelines based on systematic reviews and a cost-effectiveness analysis have suggested that it is worthwhile to measure bmd in white women older than 65 years and perhaps to use risk factors to select younger postmenopausal women for densitometry. other potential clinical applications of bmd that have not yet been adequately studied include screening men or nonwhite women  monitoring bmd in patients receiving treatment  and using bmd to identify patients who should be evaluated for secondary causes of osteoporosis.
2671,physiological relevance of cell cycle kinases.,the basic biology of the cell division cycle and its control by protein kinases was originally studied through genetic and biochemical studies in yeast and other model organisms. the major regulatory mechanisms identified in this pioneer work are conserved in mammals. however  recent studies in different cell types or genetic models are now providing a new perspective on the function of these major cell cycle regulators in different tissues. here  we review the physiological relevance of mammalian cell cycle kinases such as cyclin-dependent kinases (cdks)  aurora and polo-like kinases  and mitotic checkpoint regulators (bub1  bubr1  and mps1) as well as other less-studied enzymes such as cdc7  nek proteins  or mastl and their implications in development  tissue homeostasis  and human disease. among these functions  the control of self-renewal or asymmetric cell division in stem/progenitor cells and the ability to regenerate injured tissues is a central issue in current research. in addition  many of these proteins play previously unexpected roles in metabolism  cardiovascular function  or neuron biology. the modulation of their enzymatic activity may therefore have multiple therapeutic benefits in human disease.
2673,bullying in school: are short pupils at risk? questionnaire study in a cohort.,bullying is still prevalent in schools and is clearly stressful for victims. 1 2 it may also have undesirable consequences for bullies  with antisocial behaviour persisting into adulthood. victims are generally reported to be weaker than the bullies. 2 3 this would suggest that very short pupils are more likely to be victims and less likely to be the aggressors. the wessex growth study allowed us to examine the prevalence of bullying  as experienced or perpetrated by pupils of different heights. ninety two short normal adolescents who had been below the third centile for height at school entry4 and 117 controls matched for age and sex completed a bullying questionnaire  derived from work by whitney and smith.5 there were no refusals or any significant differences in sex or social class between the groups. mean age (range) was 14.7 (13.4-15.7) years. mean height sd scores were: short pupils −1.90 (−3.53 to −0.01)  controls 0.31 (−1.41 …
2675,microrna-29a suppresses cell proliferation by targeting sparc in hepatocellular carcinoma.,in the present study  we constructed a lentivirus vector encoding the mir-29a             precursor and established two stably infected cell lines  plc-29a and 97l-29a. the overexpression of mir-29a was confirmed by taqman rt-pcr and significantly             suppressed the growth of the hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines mhcc-97l and             plc. dual-luciferase reporter assays indicated that the sparc mrna 3'utr was directly             targeted by mir-29a since the mutated 3'utr was not affected. silencing sparc             expression by rnai knockdown resulted in a similar effect as mir-29a overexpression             on hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) cell growth regulation. anti-mir-29a oligonucleotides             (amos) upregulated the levels of sparc in the hcc cells. the phosphorylation of             akt/mtor downstream of sparc was inhibited in mir-29a-overexpressing hcc cells. we further examined and compared the expression levels of mir-29a in hcc tissues             and the corresponding nearby non-cancerous liver tissues of 110 patients with             hcc by qrt-pcr  and significantly lower expression of mir-29a was observed in             the tissues affected by hcc. our findings demonstrate that the expression of mir-29a             is important in the regulation of the sparc-akt pathway and hcc growth.
2677,large-scale movements of if3 and trna during bacterial translation initiation,in bacterial translational initiation  three initiation factors (ifs 1-3) enable the selection of initiator trna and the start codon in the p site of the 30s ribosomal subunit. here  we report 11 single-particle cryo-electron microscopy (cryoem) reconstructions of the complex of bacterial 30s subunit with initiator trna  mrna  and ifs 1-3  representing different steps along the initiation pathway. if1 provides key anchoring points for if2 and if3  thereby enhancing their activities. if2 positions a domain in an extended conformation appropriate for capturing the formylmethionyl moiety charged on trna. if3 and trna undergo large conformational changes to facilitate the accommodation of the formylmethionyl-trna (fmet-trna(fmet)) into the p site for start codon recognition.
2679,2d and 3d stem cell models of primate cortical development identify species-specific differences in progenitor behavior contributing to brain size.,variation in cerebral cortex size and complexity is thought to contribute to differences in cognitive ability between humans and other animals. here we compare cortical progenitor cell output in humans and three nonhuman primates using directed differentiation of pluripotent stem cells (pscs) in adherent two-dimensional (2d) and organoid three-dimensional (3d) culture systems. clonal lineage analysis showed that primate cortical progenitors proliferate for a protracted period of time  during which they generate early-born neurons  in contrast to rodents  where this expansion phase largely ceases before neurogenesis begins. the extent of this additional cortical progenitor expansion differs among primates  leading to differences in the number of neurons generated by each progenitor cell. we found that this mechanism for controlling cortical size is regulated cell autonomously in culture  suggesting that primate cerebral cortex size is regulated at least in part at the level of individual cortical progenitor cell clonal output.
2681,a dna test to sex most birds.,birds are difficult to sex. nestlings rarely show sex-linked morphology and we estimate that adult females appear identical to males in over 50% of the world's bird species. this problem can hinder both evolutionary studies and human-assisted breeding of birds. dna-based sex identification provides a solution. we describe a test based on two conserved chd (chromo-helicase-dna-binding) genes that are located on the avian sex chromosomes of all birds  with the possible exception of the ratites (ostriches  etc.; struthioniformes). the chd-w gene is located on the w chromosome; therefore it is unique to females. the other gene  chd-z  is found on the z chromosome and therefore occurs in both sexes (female  zw; male  zz). the test employs pcr with a single set of primers. it amplifies homologous sections of both genes and incorporates introns whose lengths usually differ. when examined on a gel there is a single chd-z band in males but females have a second  distinctive chd-w band.
2683,the inhibition of tdp-43 mitochondrial localization blocks its neuronal toxicity,genetic mutations in tar dna-binding protein 43 (tardbp  also known as tdp-43) cause amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (als)  and an increase in the presence of tdp-43 (encoded by tardbp) in the cytoplasm is a prominent histopathological feature of degenerating neurons in various neurodegenerative diseases. however  the molecular mechanisms by which tdp-43 contributes to als pathophysiology remain elusive. here we have found that tdp-43 accumulates in the mitochondria of neurons in subjects with als or frontotemporal dementia (ftd). disease-associated mutations increase tdp-43 mitochondrial localization. in mitochondria  wild-type (wt) and mutant tdp-43 preferentially bind mitochondria-transcribed messenger rnas (mrnas) encoding respiratory complex i subunits nd3 and nd6  impair their expression and specifically cause complex i disassembly. the suppression of tdp-43 mitochondrial localization abolishes wt and mutant tdp-43-induced mitochondrial dysfunction and neuronal loss  and improves phenotypes of transgenic mutant tdp-43 mice. thus  our studies link tdp-43 toxicity directly to mitochondrial bioenergetics and propose the targeting of tdp-43 mitochondrial localization as a promising therapeutic approach for neurodegeneration.
2685,2001. comparison of three management strategies for patients with atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance. baseline results from a randomized trial,background more than 2 million u.s. women receive an equivocal cervical cytologic diagnosis (atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance [ascus]) each year. effective colposcopy triage strategies are needed to identify the minority of women who have clinically significant disease while avoiding excessive follow-up evaluation for others. methods the ascus/lsil (i.e.  low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion) triage study (alts) is a multicenter  randomized trial comparing the sensitivity and specificity of the following three management strategies to detect cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 3 (cin3): 1) immediate colposcopy (considered to be the reference standard)  2) triage to colposcopy based on human papillomavirus (hpv) results from hybrid capture 2(tm) (hc 2) and thin-layer cytology results  or 3) triage based on cytology results alone. this article summarizes the cross-sectional enrollment results for 3488 women with a referral diagnosis of ascus. all statistical tests are two-sided. results among participants with ascus  the underlying prevalence of histologically confirmed cin3 was 5.1%. sensitivity to detect cin3 or above by testing for cancer-associated hpv dna was 96.3% (95% confidence interval [ci] = 91.6% to 98.8%)  with 56.1% of women referred to colposcopy. sensitivity of a single repeat cytology specimen with a triage threshold of hsil or above was 44.1% (95% ci = 35.6% to 52.9%)  with 6.9% referred. sensitivity of a lower cytology triage threshold of ascus or above was 85.3% (95% ci = 78.2% to 90.8%)  with 58.6% referred. conclusions hc 2 testing for cancer-associated hpv dna is a viable option in the management of women with ascus. it has greater sensitivity to detect cin3 or above and specificity comparable to a single additional cytologic test indicating ascus or above.
2687,past exposure to sun  skin phenotype  and risk of multiple sclerosis: case-control study.,objective to examine whether past high sun exposure is associated with a reduced risk of multiple sclerosis. design population based case-control study. setting tasmania  latitudes 41-3 degrees s.   participants 136 cases with multiple sclerosis and 272 controls randomly drawn from the community and matched on sex and year of birth. main outcome measure multiple sclerosis defined by both clinical and magnetic resonance imaging criteria. results higher sun exposure when aged 6-15 years (average 2-3 hours or more a day in summer during weekends and holidays) was associated with a decreased risk of multiple sclerosis (adjusted odds ratio 0.31  95% confidence interval 0.16 to 0.59). higher exposure in winter seemed more important than higher exposure in summer. greater actinic damage was also independently associated with a decreased risk of multiple sclerosis (0.32  0.11 to 0.88 for grades 4-6 disease). a dose-response relation was observed between multiple sclerosis and decreasing sun exposure when aged 6-15 years and with actinic damage. conclusion higher sun exposure during childhood and early adolescence is associated with a reduced risk of multiple sclerosis. insufficient ultraviolet radiation may therefore influence the development of multiple sclerosis.
2689,significance of stem cell marker nanog gene in the diagnosis and prognosis of lung cancer,the aim of the present study was to analyze the stem cell marker  nanog gene  for the diagnosis and prognosis of lung cancer cases  and to study its application in the diagnosis of lung cancer. in total  100 patients diagnosed with lung cancer between april  2013 and may  2015 were included in the present study. the patients were randomly divided into group a (lung cancer) and group b (squamous cell lung carcinoma). rt-pcr was used to detect the cancer and adjacent tissues  and nanog gene expression was detected in groups a and b in cells. the results showed that  analysis of nanog gene expression in the two groups of patients varied to different degrees. there was no significant difference between the two groups with regard to age  gender  disease stage and lymph node metastasis. nanog gene expression in patients with carcinoma were significantly higher than that in the adjacent tissues (p<0.05). by contrast  differentiated and well-differentiated carcinoma tissue showed a significantly higher nanog gene expression than poorly differentiated and undifferentiated carcinoma (p<0.05). the expression of nanog in normal cells was significantly higher than that in normal lung tissues and benign lesions in lung cancer stem cells. nanog was highly expressed in cd44+ cells  and nanog expression in lung cancer stem cells was significantly higher (p<0.05). in conclusion  for groups a (lung cancer) and b (squamous cell lung carcinoma) the nanog gene expression was significantly higher. the data of the present study show that the patients with stage iii and iv lung cancer had a higher nanog gene expression. in addition  there was a higher expression of nanog in lung cancer patients. by contrast  a lower degree of cell differentiation was associated with strong nanog gene expression in lung cancer.
2691,concentration sensing by the moving nucleus in cell fate determination: a computational analysis,during development of the vertebrate neuroepithelium  the nucleus in neural progenitor cells (npcs) moves from the apex toward the base and returns to the apex (called interkinetic nuclear migration) at which point the cell divides. the fate of the resulting daughter cells is thought to depend on the sampling by the moving nucleus of a spatial concentration profile of the cytoplasmic notch intracellular domain (nicd). however  the nucleus executes complex stochastic motions including random waiting and back and forth motions  which can expose the nucleus to randomly varying levels of cytoplasmic nicd. how nuclear position can determine daughter cell fate despite the stochastic nature of nuclear migration is not clear. here we derived a mathematical model for reaction  diffusion  and nuclear accumulation of nicd in npcs during interkinetic nuclear migration (inm). using experimentally measured trajectory-dependent probabilities of nuclear turning  nuclear waiting times and average nuclear speeds in npcs in the developing zebrafish retina  we performed stochastic simulations to compute the nuclear trajectory-dependent probabilities of npc differentiation. comparison with experimentally measured nuclear nicd concentrations and trajectory-dependent probabilities of differentiation allowed estimation of the nicd cytoplasmic gradient. spatially polarized production of nicd  rapid nicd cytoplasmic consumption and the time-averaging effect of nuclear import/export kinetics are sufficient to explain the experimentally observed differentiation probabilities. our computational studies lend quantitative support to the feasibility of the nuclear concentration-sensing mechanism for npc fate determination in zebrafish retina.
2693,genome-wide dfoxo targets and topology of the transcriptomic response to stress and insulin signalling,foxo transcription factors  inhibited by insulin/insulin-like growth factor signalling (iis)  are crucial players in numerous organismal processes including lifespan. using genomic tools  we uncover over 700 direct dfoxo targets in adult female drosophila. dfoxo is directly required for transcription of several iis components and interacting pathways  such as tor  in the wild-type fly. the genomic locations occupied by dfoxo in adults are different from those observed in larvae or cultured cells. these locations remain unchanged upon activation by stresses or reduced iis  but the binding is increased and additional targets activated upon genetic reduction in iis. we identify the part of the iis transcriptional response directly controlled by dfoxo and the indirect effects and show that parts of the transcriptional response to iis reduction do not require dfoxo. promoter analyses revealed gata and other forkhead factors as candidate mediators of the indirect and dfoxo-independent effects. we demonstrate genome-wide evolutionary conservation of dfoxo targets between the fly and the worm caenorhabditis elegans  enriched for a second tier of regulators including the dhr96/daf-12 nuclear hormone receptor.
2695,specific deficit of the on response in visual transmission by targeted disruption of the mgiur6 gene,taking advantage of the restricted expression of metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 6 (mglur6) in retinal on bipolar cells  we generated knockout mice lacking mglur6 expression. the homozygous mutant mice showed a loss of on responses but unchanged off responses to light. the mutant mice displayed no obvious changes in retinal cell organization nor in the projection of optic fibers to the brain. furthermore  the mglur6-deficient mice showed visual behavioral responses to light stimulation as examined by shuttle box avoidance behavior experiments using light exposure as a conditioned stimulus. the results demonstrate that mglur6 is essential in synaptic transmission to the on bipolar cell and that the off response provides an important means for transmitting visual information.
2697,exercise causes a tissue-specific change of no production in the kidney and lung.,nitric oxide (no) is produced in the vascular endothelium and is a potent vasodilator substance that participates in the regulation of local vascular tone. exercise causes peculiar changes in systemic and regional blood flow  i.e.  an increase of systemic blood flow and a redistribution of local tissue blood flow  by which the blood flow is greatly increased in the working muscles  whereas it is decreased in some organs such as the kidney and intestine. thus we hypothesized that exercise causes a tissue-specific change of no production in some internal organs. we studied whether exercise affects expression of no synthase (nos) mrna and protein  nos activity  and tissue level of nitrite/nitrate (stable end products of no) in the kidneys (in which blood flow during exercise is decreased) and lungs (in which blood flow during exercise is increased with the increase of cardiac output) of rat. rats ran on a treadmill for 45 min at a speed of 25 m/min. immediately after this exercise  kidneys and lungs were quickly removed. control rats remained at rest during this 45-min period. expression of endothelial nos (enos) mrna in the kidneys was markedly lower in exercise rats than in control rats  whereas that in the lungs was significantly higher in exercise rats than in control rats. western blot analysis confirmed down- and upregulation of enos protein in the kidney and lung  respectively  after exercise. on the other hand  neither expression of neuronal nos (nnos) mrna and nnos protein nor inducible nos (inos) mrna and inos protein in the kidneys and lungs differed between exercise and control rats. nos activity in the kidney was significantly lower in exercise rats than in control rats  whereas that in the lung was significantly higher in exercise rats than in control rats. on the other hand  the inos activity in the kidneys and lungs did not differ between exercise rats and control rats. tissue nitrite/nitrate level in the kidneys was markedly lower in exercise rats  whereas that in the lungs was significantly higher in exercise rats. the present results show that production of no is markedly and tissue-specifically changed in the kidney and lung by exercise.
2699,a bipotential precursor population for pancreas and liver within the embryonic endoderm.,the pancreas emerges independently from dorsal and ventral domains of embryonic gut endoderm. gene inactivation experiments in mice have identified factors required for dorsal pancreas development  but factors that initiate the ventral pancreas have remained elusive. in this study  we investigated the hypothesis that the emergence of the ventral pancreas is related to the emergence of the liver. we find that the liver and ventral pancreas are specified at the same time and in the same general domain of cells. using embryo tissue explantation experiments  we find that the default fate of the ventral foregut endoderm is to activate the pancreas gene program. fgf signalling from the cardiac mesoderm diverts this endoderm to express genes for liver instead of those for pancreas. no evidence was found to indicate that the cell type choice for pancreas or liver involves a selection for growth or viability. cardiac mesoderm or fgf induces the local expression of sonic hedgehog  which in turn is inhibitory to pancreas but not to liver. the bipotential precursor cell population for pancreas and liver in embryonic development and its fate selection by fgf has features that appear to be recapitulated in the adult pancreas and are reflected in the evolution of these organs.
2701,dynamic helix interactions in transmembrane signaling,studying how protein transmembrane domains transmit signals across membranes is beset by unique challenges. here  we discuss the circumstances that have led to success and reflect on what has been learned from these examples. such efforts suggest that some of the most interesting properties of transmembrane helix interactions may be the least amenable to study by current techniques.
2703,leptin regulates glutamate and glucose transporters in hypothalamic astrocytes.,glial cells perform critical functions that alter the metabolism and activity of neurons  and there is increasing interest in their role in appetite and energy balance. leptin  a key regulator of appetite and metabolism  has previously been reported to influence glial structural proteins and morphology. here  we demonstrate that metabolic status and leptin also modify astrocyte-specific glutamate and glucose transporters  indicating that metabolic signals influence synaptic efficacy and glucose uptake and  ultimately  neuronal function. we found that basal and glucose-stimulated electrical activity of hypothalamic proopiomelanocortin (pomc) neurons in mice were altered in the offspring of mothers fed a high-fat diet. in adulthood  increased body weight and fasting also altered the expression of glucose and glutamate transporters. these results demonstrate that whole-organism metabolism alters hypothalamic glial cell activity and suggest that these cells play an important role in the pathology of obesity.
2705,direct in vivo assessment of microcirculatory dysfunction in severe falciparum malaria.,background this study sought to describe and quantify microcirculatory changes in the mucosal surfaces of patients with severe malaria  by direct in vivo observation using orthogonal polarization spectral (ops) imaging. methods the microcirculation in the rectal mucosa of adult patients with severe malaria was assessed by use of ops imaging  at admission and then daily. comparison groups comprised patients with uncomplicated falciparum malaria  patients with bacterial sepsis  and healthy individuals. results erythrocyte velocities were measured directly in 43 adult patients with severe falciparum malaria  of whom 20 died. microcirculatory blood flow was markedly disturbed  with heterogeneous obstruction that was proportional to severity of disease. blocked capillaries were found in 29 patients (67%) and were associated with concurrent hyperdynamic blood flow (erythrocyte velocity  >750 mm/s) in adjacent vessels in 27 patients (93%). the proportion of blocked capillaries correlated with the base deficit in plasma and with the concentration of lactate. abnormalities disappeared when the patients recovered. in healthy individuals and in patients with uncomplicated malaria or sepsis  no stagnant erythrocytes were detected  and  in patients with sepsis  hyperdynamic blood flow was prominent. conclusion patients with severe falciparum malaria show extensive microvascular obstruction that is proportional to the severity of the disease. this finding underscores the prominent role that microvascular obstruction plays in the pathophysiology of severe malaria and illustrates the fundamental difference between the microvascular pathophysiology of malaria and that of bacterial sepsis.
2707,n-cadherin in the spotlight of cell-cell adhesion  differentiation  embryogenesis  invasion and signalling.,cell migration is a process which is essential during embryonic development  throughout adult life and in some pathological conditions. cadherins  and more specifically the neural cell adhesion molecule n-cadherin  play an important role in migration. in embryogenesis  n-cadherin is the key molecule during gastrulation and neural crest development. n-cadherin mediated contacts activate several pathways like rho gtpases and function in tyrosine kinase signalling (for example via the fibroblast growth factor receptor). in cancer  cadherins control the balance between suppression and promotion of invasion. e-cadherin functions as an invasion suppressor and is downregulated in most carcinomas  while n-cadherin  as an invasion promoter  is frequently upregulated. expression of n-cadherin in epithelial cells induces changes in morphology to a fibroblastic phenotype  rendering the cells more motile and invasive. however in some cancers  like osteosarcoma  n-cadherin may behave as a tumour suppressor. n-cadherin can have multiple functions: promoting adhesion or induction of migration dependent on the cellular context.
2709,tor signaling in growth and metabolism,the target of rapamycin (tor) is a conserved ser/thr kinase that regulates cell growth and metabolism in response to environmental cues. here  highlighting contributions from studies in model organisms  we review mammalian tor complexes and the signaling branches they mediate. tor is part of two distinct multiprotein complexes  tor complex 1 (torc1)  which is sensitive to rapamycin  and torc2  which is not. the physiological consequences of mammalian torc1 dysregulation suggest that inhibitors of mammalian tor may be useful in the treatment of cancer  cardiovascular disease  autoimmunity  and metabolic disorders.
2711,ciliary extracellular vesicles: txt msg organelles,cilia are sensory organelles that protrude from cell surfaces to monitor the surrounding environment. in addition to its role as sensory receiver  the cilium also releases extracellular vesicles (evs). the release of sub-micron sized evs is a conserved form of intercellular communication used by all three kingdoms of life. these extracellular organelles play important roles in both short and long range signaling between donor and target cells and may coordinate systemic responses within an organism in normal and diseased states. ev shedding from ciliated cells and ev–cilia interactions are evolutionarily conserved phenomena  yet remarkably little is known about the relationship between the cilia and evs and the fundamental biology of evs. studies in the model organisms chlamydomonas and caenorhabditis elegans have begun to shed light on ciliary evs. chlamydomonas evs are shed from tips of flagella and are bioactive. caenorhabditis elegans evs are shed and released by ciliated sensory neurons in an intraflagellar transport-dependent manner. caenorhabditis elegans evs play a role in modulating animal-to-animal communication  and this ev bioactivity is dependent on ev cargo content. some ciliary pathologies  or ciliopathies  are associated with abnormal ev shedding or with abnormal cilia–ev interactions. until the 21st century  both cilia and evs were ignored as vestigial or cellular junk. as research interest in these two organelles continues to gain momentum  we envision a new field of cell biology emerging. here  we propose that the cilium is a dedicated organelle for ev biogenesis and ev reception. we will also discuss possible mechanisms by which evs exert bioactivity and explain how what is learned in model organisms regarding ev biogenesis and function may provide insight to human ciliopathies.
2713,ionic mechanism of ouabain-induced concurrent apoptosis and necrosis in individual cultured cortical neurons,energy deficiency and dysfunction of the na+  k+-atpase are common consequences of many pathological insults. the nature and mechanism of cell injury induced by impaired na+  k+-atpase  however  are not well defined. we used cultured cortical neurons to examine the hypothesis that blocking the na+  k+-atpase induces apoptosis by depleting cellular k+ and  concurrently  induces necrotic injury in the same cells by increasing intracellular ca2+ and na+. the na+  k+-atpase inhibitor ouabain induced concentration-dependent neuronal death. ouabain triggered transient neuronal cell swelling followed by cell shrinkage  accompanied by intracellular ca2+ and na+ increase  k+ decrease  cytochrome c release  caspase-3 activation  and dna laddering. electron microscopy revealed the coexistence of ultrastructural features of both apoptosis and necrosis in individual cells. the caspase inhibitor z-val-ala-asp(ome)-fluoromethyl ketone (z-vad-fmk) blocked >50% of ouabain-induced neuronal death. potassium channel blockers or high k+ medium  but not ca2+ channel blockade  prevented cytochrome c release  caspase activation  and dna damage. blocking of k+  ca2+  or na+ channels or high k+ medium each attenuated the ouabain-induced cell death; combined inhibition of k+ channels and ca2+ or na+ channels resulted in additional protection. moreover  coapplication of z-vad-fmk and nifedipine produced virtually complete neuroprotection. these results suggest that the neuronal death associated with na+  k+-pump failure consists of concurrent apoptotic and necrotic components  mediated by intracellular depletion of k+ and accumulation of ca2+ and na+  respectively. the ouabain-induced hybrid death may represent a distinct form of cell death related to the brain injury of inadequate energy supply and disrupted ion homeostasis.
2715,a comprehensive genomic binding map of gene and chromatin regulatory proteins in saccharomyces.,hundreds of different proteins regulate and implement transcription in saccharomyces. yet their interrelationships have not been investigated on a comprehensive scale. here we determined the genome-wide binding locations of 200 transcription-related proteins  under normal and acute heat-shock conditions. this study distinguishes binding between distal versus proximal promoter regions as well as the 3' ends of genes for nearly all mrna and trna genes. this study reveals (1) a greater diversity and specialization of regulation associated with the saga transcription pathway compared to the tfiid pathway  (2) new regulators enriched at trna genes  (3) a global co-occupancy network of >20 000 unique regulator combinations that show a high degree of regulatory interconnections among lowly expressed genes  (4) regulators of the saga pathway located largely distal to the core promoter and regulators of the tfiid pathway located proximally  and (5) distinct mobilization of saga- versus tfiid-linked regulators during acute heat shock.
2717,thirty-one novel biomarkers as predictors for clinically incident diabetes,background the prevalence of diabetes is increasing in all industrialized countries and its prevention has become a public health priority. however  the predictors of diabetes risk are insufficiently understood. we evaluated  whether 31 novel biomarkers could help to predict the risk of incident diabetes. methods and findings the biomarkers were evaluated primarily in the finrisk97 cohort (n = 7 827; 417 cases of clinically incident diabetes during the follow-up). the findings were replicated in the health 2000 cohort (n = 4 977; 179 cases of clinically incident diabetes during the follow-up). we used cox proportional hazards models to calculate the relative risk of diabetes  after adjusting for the classic risk factors  separately for each biomarker. next  we assessed the discriminatory ability of single biomarkers using receiver operating characteristic curves and c-statistics  integrated discrimination improvement (idi) and net reclassification improvement (nri). finally  we derived a biomarker score in the finrisk97 cohort and validated it in the health 2000 cohort. a score consisting of adiponectin  apolipoprotein b  c-reactive protein and ferritin almost doubled the relative risk of diabetes in the validation cohort (hr per one standard deviation increase 1.88  p = 2.8 e-5). it also improved discrimination of the model (idi = 0.0149  p<0.0001) and reclassification of diabetes risk (nri = 11.8%  p = 0.006). gender-specific analyses suggested that the best score differed between men and women. among men  the best results were obtained with the score of four biomarkers: adiponectin  apolipoprotein b  ferritin and interleukin-1 receptor antagonist  which gave an nri of 25.4% (p<0.0001). among women  the best score included adiponectin  apolipoprotein b  c-reactive protein and insulin. it gave an nri of 13.6% (p = 0.041). conclusions we identified novel biomarkers that were associated with the risk of clinically incident diabetes over and above the classic risk factors. this gives new insights into the pathogenesis of diabetes and may help with targeting prevention and treatment.
2719,the sheddase adam10 is a potent modulator of prion disease,the prion protein (prp(c)) is highly expressed in the nervous system and critically involved in prion diseases where it misfolds into pathogenic prp(sc). moreover  it has been suggested as a receptor mediating neurotoxicity in common neurodegenerative proteinopathies such as alzheimer's disease. prp(c) is shed at the plasma membrane by the metalloprotease adam10  yet the impact of this on prion disease remains enigmatic. employing conditional knockout mice  we show that depletion of adam10 in forebrain neurons leads to posttranslational increase of prp(c) levels. upon prion infection of these mice  clinical  biochemical  and morphological data reveal that lack of adam10 significantly reduces incubation times and increases prp(sc) formation. in contrast  spatiotemporal analysis indicates that absence of shedding impairs spread of prion pathology. our data support a dual role for adam10-mediated shedding and highlight the role of proteolytic processing in prion disease.
2721,primpol  an archaic primase/polymerase operating in human cells,we describe a second primase in human cells  primpol  which has the ability to start dna chains with deoxynucleotides unlike regular primases  which use exclusively ribonucleotides. moreover  primpol is also a dna polymerase tailored to bypass the most common oxidative lesions in dna  such as abasic sites and 8-oxoguanine. subcellular fractionation and immunodetection studies indicated that primpol is present in both nuclear and mitochondrial dna compartments. primpol activity is detectable in mitochondrial lysates from human and mouse cells but is absent from mitochondria derived from primpol knockout mice. primpol gene silencing or ablation in human and mouse cells impaired mitochondrial dna replication. on the basis of the synergy observed with replicative dna polymerases polγ and polε  primpol is proposed to facilitate replication fork progression by acting as a translesion dna polymerase or as a specific dna primase reinitiating downstream of lesions that block synthesis during both mitochondrial and nuclear dna replication.
2723,mechanical regulation of cell function with geometrically modulated elastomeric substrates,we report the establishment of a library of micromolded elastomeric micropost arrays to modulate substrate rigidity independently of effects on adhesive and other material surface properties. we demonstrated that micropost rigidity impacts cell morphology  focal adhesions  cytoskeletal contractility and stem cell differentiation. furthermore  early changes in cytoskeletal contractility predicted later stem cell fate decisions in single cells.
2725,a complex secretory program orchestrated by the inflammasome controls paracrine senescence,oncogene-induced senescence (ois) is crucial for tumour suppression. senescent cells implement a complex pro-inflammatory response termed the senescence-associated secretory phenotype (sasp). the sasp reinforces senescence  activates immune surveillance and paradoxically also has pro-tumorigenic properties. here  we present evidence that the sasp can also induce paracrine senescence in normal cells both in culture and in human and mouse models of ois in vivo. coupling quantitative proteomics with small-molecule screens  we identified multiple sasp components mediating paracrine senescence  including tgf-β family ligands  vegf  ccl2 and ccl20. amongst them  tgf-β ligands play a major role by regulating p15(ink4b) and p21(cip1). expression of the sasp is controlled by inflammasome-mediated il-1 signalling. the inflammasome and il-1 signalling are activated in senescent cells and il-1α expression can reproduce sasp activation  resulting in senescence. our results demonstrate that the sasp can cause paracrine senescence and impact on tumour suppression and senescence in vivo.
2727,genome-wide identification of genes directly regulated by the pleiotropic transcription factor spx in bacillus subtilis,the transcriptional regulator spx plays a key role in maintaining the redox homeostasis of bacillus subtilis cells exposed to disulfide stress. defects in spx were previously shown to lead to differential expression of numerous genes but direct and indirect regulatory effects could not be distinguished. here we identified 283 discrete chromosomal sites potentially bound by the spx-rna polymerase (spx-rnap) complex using chromatin immunoprecipitation of spx. three quarters of these sites were located near sigma(a)-dependent promoters  and upon diamide treatment  the fraction of the spx-rnap complex increased in parallel with the number and occupancy of dna sites. correlation of spx-rnap-binding sites with gene differential expression in wild-type and δspx strains exposed or not to diamide revealed that 144 transcription units comprising 275 genes were potentially under direct spx regulation. spx-controlled promoters exhibited an extended -35 box in which nucleotide composition at the -43/-44 positions strongly correlated with observed activation. in vitro transcription confirmed activation by oxidized spx of seven newly identified promoters  of which one was also activated by reduced spx. our study globally characterized the spx regulatory network  revealing its role in the basal expression of some genes and its complex interplay with other stress responses.
2729, us-somo hplc-saxs module: dealing with capillary fouling and extraction of pure component patterns from poorly resolved sec-saxs data,size-exclusion chromatography coupled with saxs (small-angle x-ray scattering)  often performed using a flow-through capillary  should allow direct collection of monodisperse sample data. however  capillary fouling issues and non-baseline-resolved peaks can hamper its efficacy. the ultrascan solution modeler (us-somo) hplc-saxs (high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with saxs) module provides a comprehensive framework to analyze such data  starting with a simple linear baseline correction and symmetrical gaussian decomposition tools [brookes  pérez  cardinali  profumo  vachette & rocco (2013 ▸). j. appl. cryst.46  1823-1833]. in addition to several new features  substantial improvements to both routines have now been implemented  comprising the evaluation of outcomes by advanced statistical tools. the novel integral baseline-correction procedure is based on the more sound assumption that the effect of capillary fouling on scattering increases monotonically with the intensity scattered by the material within the x-ray beam. overlapping peaks  often skewed because of sample interaction with the column matrix  can now be accurately decomposed using non-symmetrical modified gaussian functions. as an example  the case of a polydisperse solution of aldolase is analyzed: from heavily convoluted peaks  individual saxs profiles of tetramers  octamers and dodecamers are extracted and reliably modeled.
2731,local neuroinflammation and the progression of alzheimer’s disease,postmortem immunohistochemical studies have revealed a state of chronic inflammation limited to lesioned areas of brain in alzheimer’s disease. some key actors in this inflammation are activated microglia (brain macrophages)  proteins of the classical complement cascade  the pentraxins  cytokines  and chemokines. the inflammation does not involve the adaptive immune system or peripheral organs  but is rather due to the phylogenetically much older innate immune system  which appears to operate in most tissues of the body. chronic inflammation can damage host tissue and the brain may be particularly vulnerable because of the postmitotic nature of neurons. many of the inflammatory mediators have been shown to be locally produced and selectively elevated in affected regions of alzheimer’s brain. moreover  studies of tissue in such degenerative processes as atherosclerosis and infarcted heart suggest a similar local innate immune reaction may be important in such conditions. much epidemiological and limited clinical evidence suggests that nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs may impede the onset and slow the progression of alzheimer’s disease. but these drugs strike at the periphery of the inflammatory reaction. much better results might be obtained if drugs were found that could inhibit the activation of microglia or the complement system in brain  and combinations of drugs aimed at different inflammatory targets might be much more effective than single agents.
2733,intrauterine environments and breast cancer risk: meta-analysis and systematic review,introduction various perinatal factors  including birth weight  birth order  maternal age  gestational age  twin status  and parental smoking  have been postulated to affect breast cancer risk in daughters by altering the hormonal environment of the developing fetal mammary glands. despite ample biologic plausibility  epidemiologic studies to date have yielded conflicting results. we investigated the associations between perinatal factors and subsequent breast cancer risk through meta-analyses. methods we reviewed breast cancer studies published from january 1966 to february 2007 that included data on birth weight  birth order  maternal age  gestational age  twin status  and maternal or paternal smoking. meta-analyses using random effect models were employed to summarize the results. results we found that heavier birth weights were associated with increased breast cancer risk  with studies involving five categories of birth weight identifying odds ratios (ors) of 1.24 (95% confidence interval [ci] 1.04 to 1.48) for 4 000 g or more and 1.15 (95% ci 1.04 to 1.26) for 3 500 g to 3 999 g  relative to a birth weight of 2 500 to 2 599 g. these studies provided no support for a j-shaped relationship of birthweight to risk. support for an association with birthweight was also derived from studies based on three birth weight categories (or 1.15 [95% ci 1.01 to 1.31] for > or =4 000 g relative to <3 000 g) and two birth weight categories (or 1.09 [95% ci 1.02 to 1.18] for > or =3 000 g relative to <3 000 g). women born to older mothers and twins were also at some increased risk  but the results were heterogeneous across studies and publication years. birth order  prematurity  and maternal smoking were unrelated to breast cancer risk. conclusion our findings provide some support for the hypothesis that in utero exposures reflective of higher endogenous hormone levels could affect risk for development of breast cancer in adulthood.
2735,prognostic and predictive value of kras mutations in advanced non-small cell lung cancer,clinical implications of kras mutations in advanced non-small cell lung cancer remain unclear. we retrospectively evaluated the prognostic and predictive value of kras mutations in patients with advanced nsclc. among 484 patients with available results for both kras and egfr mutations  39 (8%) had kras and 182 (38%) egfr mutations  with two cases having both mutations. the median overall survivals for patients with kras mutations  egfr mutations  or both wild types were 7.7  38.0  and 15.0 months  respectively (p<0.001). the kras mutation was an independent poor prognostic factor in the multivariate analysis (hazard ratio = 2.6  95% ci: 1.8-3.7). response rates and progression-free survival (pfs) for the pemetrexed-based regimen in the kras mutation group were 14% and 2.1 months  inferior to those (28% and 3.9 months) in the kras wild type group. kras mutation tended to be associated with inferior treatment outcomes after gemcitabine-based chemotherapy  while there was no difference regarding taxane-based regimen. although the clinical outcomes to egfr tyrosine kinase inhibitors (tkis) seemed to be better in patients with kras wild type than those with kras mutations  there was no statistical difference in response rates and pfs according to kras mutation status when egfr mutation status was considered. two patients with both kras and egfr mutations showed partial response to egfr tkis. although g12d mutation appeared more frequently in never smokers  there was no difference in clinical outcomes according to kras genotypes. these results suggested kras mutations have an independent prognostic value but a limited predictive role for egfr tkis or cytotoxic chemotherapy in advanced nsclc.
2737,two subsets of naive t helper cells with distinct t cell receptor excision circle content in human adult peripheral blood,during ageing thymic function declines and is unable to meet the demand for peripheral t helper (th) cell replenishment. therefore  population maintenance of naive th cells must be at least partly peripherally based. such peripheral postthymic expansion of recent thymic emigrants (rtes) during ageing consequently should lead to loss or dilution of t cell receptor excision circles (trecs) from a subset of naive t cells. we have identified two subsets of naive th cells in human adult peripheral blood characterized by a striking unequal content of trecs  indicating different peripheral proliferative histories. trecs are highly enriched in peripheral naive cd45ra+ th cells coexpressing cd31 compared with peripheral naive cd45ra+ th cells lacking cd31 expression  in which trecs can hardly be detected. furthermore we show that cd31−cd45ra+ th cells account for increasing percentages of the naive peripheral th cell pool during ageing but retain phenotypic and functional features of naive th cells. as cd31 is lost upon t cell receptor (tcr) engagement in vitro  we hypothesize that tcr triggering is a prerequisite for homeostatically driven peripheral postthymic expansion of human naive rtes. we describe here the identification of peripherally expanded naive th cells in human adult blood characterized by the loss of cd31 expression and a highly reduced trec content.
2739,systematic review of role of bisphosphonates on skeletal morbidity in metastatic cancer.,objective to review the evidence for the use of bisphosphonates to reduce skeletal morbidity in cancer patients with bone metastases. data sources electronic databases  scanning reference lists  and consultation with experts and pharmaceutical companies. foreign language papers were included. study selection included trials were randomised controlled trials of patients with malignant disease and bone metastases who were treated with oral or intravenous bisphosphonate compared with another bisphosphonate  placebo  or standard care. all trials measured at least one outcome of skeletal morbidity. results 95 articles were identified; 30 studies fulfilled inclusion criteria. in studies that lasted > or = 6 months  compared with placebo bisphosphonates significantly reduced the odds ratio for fractures (vertebral 0.69  95% confidence interval 0.57 to 0.84  p < 0.0001; non-vertebral 0.65  0.54 to 0.79  p < 0.0001; combined 0.65  0.55 to 0.78  p < 0.0001)  radiotherapy (0.67  0.57 to 0.79  p < 0.0001)  and hypercalcaemia (0.54  0.36 to 0.81  p = 0.003) but not for orthopaedic surgery (0.70  0.46 to 1.05  p = 0.086) or spinal cord compression (0.71  0.47 to 1.08  p = 0.113). the reduction in orthopaedic surgery was significant in studies that lasted over a year (0.59  0.39 to 0.88  p = 0.009). use of bisphosphonates significantly increased time to first skeletal related event but did not increase survival. subanalyses showed that most evidence supports use of intravenous aminobisphosphonates. conclusions in people with metastatic bone disease bisphosphonates significantly decrease skeletal morbidity  except for spinal cord compression and increased time to first skeletal related event. treatment should start when bone metastases are diagnosed and continue until it is no longer clinically relevant.
2741,the docking domain of histone h2a is required for h1 binding and rsc-mediated nucleosome remodeling,histone variants within the h2a family show high divergences in their c-terminal regions. in this work  we have studied how these divergences and in particular  how a part of the h2a cooh-terminus  the docking domain  is implicated in both structural and functional properties of the nucleosome. using biochemical methods in combination with atomic force microscopy and electron cryo-microscopy  we show that the h2a-docking domain is a key structural feature within the nucleosome. deletion of this domain or replacement with the incomplete docking domain from the variant h2a.bbd results in significant structural alterations in the nucleosome  including an increase in overall accessibility to nucleases  un-wrapping of ∼10 bp of dna from each end of the nucleosome and associated changes in the entry/exit angle of dna ends. these structural alterations are associated with a reduced ability of the chromatin remodeler rsc to both remodel and mobilize the nucleosomes. linker histone h1 binding is also abrogated in nucleosomes containing the incomplete docking domain of h2a.bbd. our data illustrate the unique role of the h2a-docking domain in coordinating the structural-functional aspects of the nucleosome properties. moreover  our data suggest that incorporation of a 'defective' docking domain may be a primary structural role of h2a.bbd in chromatin.
2743,circular rna and mir-7 in cancer.,micrornas (mirna) play important roles in fine-tuning gene expression and are often deregulated in cancer. the identification of competing endogenous rna and circular rna (circrna) as important regulators of mirna activity underscores the increasing complexity of ncrna-mediated regulatory networks. particularly  the recently identified circular rna  cirs-7  which acts as a designated mir-7 inhibitor/sponge  has conceptually changed the mechanistic understanding of mirna networks. as mir-7 modulates the expression of several oncogenes  disclosing the regulation of mir-7 activity will likely advance the understanding of various cancer etiologies. here  we review the current knowledge about the cirs-7/mir-7 axis in cancer-related pathways and discuss possible models explaining the relevance of coexpressing mir-7 along with a circrna inhibitor.
2745,a specific loop in human dna polymerase mu allows switching between creative and dna-instructed synthesis,human dna polymerase mu (polμ) is a family x member that has terminal transferase activity but  in spite of a non-orthodox selection of the template information  displays its maximal catalytic efficiency in dna-templated reactions. as terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (tdt)  polμ has a specific loop (loop1) that could provide this enzyme with its terminal transferase activity. when loop1 was deleted  human polμ lacked tdt activity but improved dna-binding and dna template-dependent polymerization. interestingly  when loop1 from tdt was inserted in polμ (substituting its cognate loop1)  the resulting chimaera displayed tdt activity  preferentially inserting dgtp residues  but had a strongly reduced template-dependent polymerization activity. therefore  a specialized loop in polμ  that could adopt alternative conformations  appears to provide this enzyme with a dual capacity: (i) template independency to create new dna information  in which loop1 would have an active role by acting as a ‘pseudotemplate’; (ii) template-dependent polymerization  in which loop1 must allow binding of the template strand. recent in vivo and in vitro data suggest that such a dual capacity could be advantageous to resolve microhomology-mediated end-joining reactions.
2747,the immunogenicity and safety of the live-attenuated sa 14-14-2 japanese encephalitis vaccine given with a two-dose primary schedule in children,effective and tolerable vaccination is an essential strategy to prevent japanese encephalitis (je) in endemic areas. although the live attenuated sa 14-14-2 je vaccine (lajev) has been widely used since its introduction  the systemic data of lajev was very rarely available in korea. we conducted the open-label  prospective cohort study to assess the immunogenicity and safety of this vaccine. ninety subjects were enrolled  and lajev in a 2-dose primary series was given with a 12-month interval. neutralizing antibody titers were measured before and after each vaccination  and active monitoring for adverse events was performed. after the first dose  91.1% of subjects had seroprotection with a geometric mean titer (gmt) of 40.9. seroprotection rate after the second dose was 97%  and gmt showed an increase of 6.5-fold. most adverse events following immunization were self-limited  and no serious adverse events were reported until 42 days after each dose. the 2-dose administration of lajev in the primary immunization schedule appeared to be highly immunogenic and safe.
2749,penile curvature incidence in hypospadias: can it be determined?,the aim was to retrospectively determine the real incidence of congenital penile curvature in various forms of hypospadias  in order to indicate intraoperative assessment and correction of curvature. we analyzed 842 patients with hypospadias who underwent surgery from 2003 to 2010  classified into two groups. first group was intraoperatively checked for curvature as a routine procedure  while a curvature in the second group was assessed mostly in severe hypospadias. results are analyzed using fisher's and chi-square tests. in total  238 cases (28.3%) of associated curvature were confirmed. curvature was significantly more frequent in the first group  regarding hypospadias in general (p < 0.01)  as well as distal (p < 0.05) and midshaft forms (p < 0.01). penile curvature is common figure in hypospadias  including distal types. intraoperative testing for associated curvature should be considered as a routine procedure in hypospadias repair.
2751,atpase-dependent control of the mms21 sumo ligase during dna repair,modification of proteins by sumo is essential for the maintenance of genome integrity. during dna replication  the mms21-branch of the sumo pathway counteracts recombination intermediates at damaged replication forks  thus facilitating sister chromatid disjunction. the mms21 sumo ligase docks to the arm region of the smc5 protein in the smc5/6 complex; together  they cooperate during recombinational dna repair. yet how the activity of the sumo ligase is controlled remains unknown. here we show that the sumo ligase and the chromosome disjunction functions of mms21 depend on its docking to an intact and active smc5/6 complex  indicating that the smc5/6-mms21 complex operates as a large sumo ligase in vivo. in spite of the physical distance separating the e3 and the nucleotide-binding domains in smc5/6  mms21-dependent sumoylation requires binding of atp to smc5  a step that is part of the ligase mechanism that assists ubc9 function. the communication is enabled by the presence of a conserved disruption in the coiled coil domain of smc5  pointing to potential conformational changes for sumo ligase activation. in accordance  scanning force microscopy of the smc5-mms21 heterodimer shows that the molecule is physically remodeled in an atp-dependent manner. our results demonstrate that the atp-binding activity of the smc5/6 complex is coordinated with its sumo ligase  through the coiled coil domain of smc5 and the physical remodeling of the molecule  to promote sumoylation and chromosome disjunction during dna repair.
2753,autocrine wnt signaling contributes to breast cancer cell proliferation via the canonical wnt pathway and egfr transactivation,de-regulation of the wingless and integration site growth factor (wnt) signaling pathway via mutations in apc and axin  proteins that target β-catenin for destruction  have been linked to various types of human cancer. these genetic alterations rarely  if ever  are observed in breast tumors. however  various lines of evidence suggest that wnt signaling may also be de-regulated in breast cancer. most breast tumors show hypermethylation of the promoter region of secreted frizzled-related protein 1 (sfrp1)  a negative wnt pathway regulator  leading to downregulation of its expression. as a consequence  wnt signaling is enhanced and may contribute to proliferation of human breast tumor cells. we previously demonstrated that  in addition to the canonical wnt/β-catenin pathway  wnt signaling activates the extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (erk1/2) pathway in mouse mammary epithelial cells via epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) transactivation. using the wnt modulator sfrp1 and short interfering rna-mediated dishevelled (dvl) knockdown  we interfered with autocrine wnt signaling at the ligand-receptor level. the impact on proliferation was measured by cell counting  yopro  and the mtt (3-[4 5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2 5-diphenyl-tetrazolium bromide) assay; β-catenin  egfr  erk1/2 activation  and parp (poly [adp-ribose]polymerase) cleavages were assessed by western blotting after treatment of human breast cancer cell lines with conditioned media  purified proteins  small-molecule inhibitors  or blocking antibodies. phospho-dvl and stabilized β-catenin are present in many breast tumor cell lines  indicating autocrine wnt signaling activity. interfering with this loop decreases active β-catenin levels  lowers erk1/2 activity  blocks proliferation  and induces apoptosis in mda-mb-231  bt474  skbr3  jimt-1  and mcf-7 cells. the effects of wnt signaling are mediated partly by egfr transactivation in human breast cancer cells in a metalloprotease- and src-dependent manner. furthermore  wnt1 rescues estrogen receptor-positive (er+) breast cancer cells from the anti-proliferative effects of 4-hydroxytamoxifen (4-ht) and this activity can be blocked by an egfr tyrosine kinase inhibitor. our data show that interference with autocrine wnt signaling in human breast cancer reduces proliferation and survival of human breast cancer cells and rescues er+ tumor cells from 4-ht by activation of the canonical wnt pathway and egfr transactivation. these findings suggest that interference with wnt signaling at the ligand-receptor level in combination with other targeted therapies may improve the efficiency of breast cancer treatments.
2755,ror-γ drives androgen receptor expression and represents a therapeutic target in castration-resistant prostate cancer,the androgen receptor (ar) is overexpressed and hyperactivated in human castration-resistant prostate cancer (crpc). however  the determinants of ar overexpression in crpc are poorly defined. here we show that retinoic acid receptor-related orphan receptor γ (ror-γ) is overexpressed and amplified in metastatic crpc tumors  and that ror-γ drives ar expression in the tumors. ror-γ recruits nuclear receptor coactivator 1 and 3 (ncoa1 and ncoa3  also known as src-1 and src-3) to an ar-ror response element (rore) to stimulate ar gene transcription. ror-γ antagonists suppress the expression of both ar and its variant ar-v7 in prostate cancer (pca) cell lines and tumors. ror-γ antagonists also markedly diminish genome-wide ar binding  h3k27ac abundance and expression of the ar target gene network. finally  ror-γ antagonists suppressed tumor growth in multiple ar-expressing  but not ar-negative  xenograft pca models  and they effectively sensitized crpc tumors to enzalutamide  without overt toxicity  in mice. taken together  these results establish ror-γ as a key player in crpc by acting upstream of ar and as a potential therapeutic target for advanced pca.
2757,inducible caspase-9 suicide gene controls adverse effects from alloreplete t cells after haploidentical stem cell transplantation.,to test the feasibility of a single t-cell manipulation to eliminate alloreactivity while sparing antiviral and antitumor t cells  we infused 12 haploidentical hematopoietic stem cell transplant patients with increasing numbers of alloreplete haploidentical t cells expressing the inducible caspase 9 suicide gene (ic9-t cells). we determined whether the ic9-t cells produced immune reconstitution and if any resultant graft-versus-host disease (gvhd) could be controlled by administration of a chemical inducer of dimerization (cid; ap1903/rimiducid). all patients receiving >10(4) alloreplete ic9-t lymphocytes per kilogram achieved rapid reconstitution of immune responses toward 5 major pathogenic viruses and concomitant control of active infections. four patients received a single ap1903 dose. cid infusion eliminated 85% to 95% of circulating cd3(+)cd19(+) t cells within 30 minutes  with no recurrence of gvhd within 90 days. in one patient  symptoms and signs of gvhd-associated cytokine release syndrome (crs-hyperpyrexia  high levels of proinflammatory cytokines  and rash) resolved within 2 hours of ap1903 infusion. one patient with varicella zoster virus meningitis and acute gvhd had ic9-t cells present in the cerebrospinal fluid  which were reduced by >90% after cid. notably  virus-specific t cells recovered even after ap1903 administration and continued to protect against infection. hence  alloreplete ic9-t cells can reconstitute immunity posttransplant and administration of cid can eliminate them from both peripheral blood and the central nervous system (cns)  leading to rapid resolution of gvhd and crs. the approach may therefore be useful for the rapid and effective treatment of toxicities associated with infusion of engineered t lymphocytes. this trial was registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov as #nct01494103.
2759,effects of a high-intensity functional exercise program on dependence in activities of daily living and balance in older adults with dementia,objectives to investigate the effects of a high-intensity functional exercise program on independence in activities of daily living (adls) and balance in older people with dementia and whether exercise effects differed between dementia types. design cluster-randomized controlled trial: umeå dementia and exercise (umdex) study. setting residential care facilities  umeå  sweden. participants individuals aged 65 and older with a dementia diagnosis  a mini-mental state examination score of 10 or greater  and dependence in adls (n=186). intervention ninety-three participants each were allocated to the high-intensity functional exercise program  comprising lower limb strength and balance exercises  and 93 to a seated control activity. measurements blinded assessors measured adl independence using the functional independence measure (fim) and barthel index (bi) and balance using the berg balance scale (bbs) at baseline and 4 (directly after intervention completion) and 7 months. results linear mixed models showed no between-group effect on adl independence at 4 (fim=1.3  95% confidence interval (ci)=-1.6-4.3; bi=0.6  95% ci=-0.2-1.4) or 7 (fim=0.8  95% ci=-2.2-3.8; bi=0.6  95% ci=-0.3-1.4) months. a significant between-group effect on balance favoring exercise was observed at 4 months (bbs=4.2  95% ci=1.8-6.6). in interaction analyses  exercise effects differed significantly between dementia types. positive between-group exercise effects were found in participants with non-alzheimer's dementia according to the fim at 7 months and bi and bbs at 4 and 7 months. conclusion in older people with mild to moderate dementia living in residential care facilities  a 4-month high-intensity functional exercise program appears to slow decline in adl independence and improve balance  albeit only in participants with non-alzheimer's dementia.
2761,in,transglutaminase 2 (tgase 2) is a ca+2-dependent enzyme that catalyzes both intracellular and extracellular cross-linking reactions by transamidation of specific glutamine residues. tgase 2 is known to be involved in the membrane-mediated events required for glucose-stimulated insulin release from the pancreatic beta cells. here we show that targeted disruption of tgase 2 impairs glucose-stimulated insulin secretion. tgase 2-/- mice show glucose intolerance after intraperitoneal glucose loading. tgase 2-/- mice manifest a tendency to develop hypoglycemia after administration of exogenous insulin as a consequence of enhanced insulin receptor substrate 2 (irs-2) phosphorylation. we suggest that the increased peripheral sensitivity to insulin partially compensates for the defective secretion in this animal model. tgase 2-/- mouse phenotype resembles that of the maturity-onset diabetes of young (mody) patients. in the course of screening for human tgase 2 gene in italian subjects with the clinical features of mody  we detected a missense mutation (n333s) in the active site of the enzyme. collectively  these results identify tgase 2 as a potential candidate gene in type 2 diabetes.
2763,myeloid cells expressing vegf and arginase-1 following uptake of damaged retinal pigment epithelium suggests potential mechanism that drives the onset of choroidal angiogenesis in mice,whilst data recognise both myeloid cell accumulation during choroidal neovascularisation (cnv) as well as complement activation  none of the data has presented a clear explanation for the angiogenic drive that promotes pathological angiogenesis. one possibility that is a pre-eminent drive is a specific and early conditioning and activation of the myeloid cell infiltrate. using a laser-induced cnv murine model  we have identified that disruption of retinal pigment epithelium (rpe) and bruch's membrane resulted in an early recruitment of macrophages derived from monocytes and microglia  prior to angiogenesis and contemporaneous with lesional complement activation. early recruited cd11b(+) cells expressed a definitive gene signature of selective inflammatory mediators particularly a pronounced arg-1 expression. accumulating macrophages from retina and peripheral blood were activated at the site of injury  displaying enhanced vegf expression  and notably prior to exaggerated vegf expression from rpe  or earliest stages of angiogenesis. all of these initial events  including distinct vegf (+) arg-1(+) myeloid cells  subsided when cnv was established and at the time rpe-vegf expression was maximal. depletion of inflammatory ccr2-positive monocytes confirmed origin of infiltrating monocyte arg-1 expression  as following depletion arg-1 signal was lost and cnv suppressed. furthermore  our in vitro data supported a myeloid cell uptake of damaged rpe or its derivatives as a mechanism generating vegf (+) arg-1(+) phenotype in vivo. our results reveal a potential early driver initiating angiogenesis via myeloid-derived vegf drive following uptake of damaged rpe and deliver an explanation of why cnv develops during any of the stages of macular degeneration and can be explored further for therapeutic gain.
2765,the bacteroides sp. 3_1_23 pif1 protein is a multifunctional helicase,scpif1 dna helicase is the prototypical member of a 5'-to-3' helicase superfamily conserved from bacteria to human and plays various roles in the maintenance of genomic homeostasis. while many studies have been performed with eukaryotic pif1 helicases  including yeast and human pif1 proteins  the potential functions and biochemical properties of prokaryotic pif1 helicases remain largely unknown. here  we report the expression  purification and biochemical analysis of pif1 helicase from bacteroides sp. 3_1_23 (bspif1). bspif1 binds to a large panel of dna substrates and  in particular  efficiently unwinds partial duplex dnas with 5'-overhang  fork-like substrates  d-loop and flap-like substrates  suggesting that bspif1 may act at stalled dna replication forks and enhance okazaki fragment maturation. like its eukaryotic homologues  bspif1 resolves r-loop structures and unwinds dna-rna hybrids. furthermore  bspif1 efficiently unfolds g-quadruplexes and disrupts nucleoprotein complexes. altogether  these results highlight that prokaryotic pif1 helicases may resolve common issues that arise during dna transactions. interestingly  we found that bspif1 is different from yeast pif1  but resembles more human pif1 with regard to substrate specificity  helicase activity and mode of action. these findings are discussed in the context of the possible functions of prokaryotic pif1 helicases in vivo.
2767,control of nutrient stress-induced metabolic reprogramming by pkcζ in tumorigenesis,tumor cells have high-energetic and anabolic needs and are known to adapt their metabolism to be able to survive and keep proliferating under conditions of nutrient stress. we show that pkcζ deficiency promotes the plasticity necessary for cancer cells to reprogram their metabolism to utilize glutamine through the serine biosynthetic pathway in the absence of glucose. pkcζ represses the expression of two key enzymes of the pathway  phgdh and psat1  and phosphorylates phgdh at key residues to inhibit its enzymatic activity. interestingly  the loss of pkcζ in mice results in enhanced intestinal tumorigenesis and increased levels of these two metabolic enzymes  whereas patients with low levels of pkcζ have a poor prognosis. furthermore  pkcζ and caspase-3 activities are correlated with phgdh levels in human intestinal tumors. taken together  this demonstrates that pkcζ is a critical metabolic tumor suppressor in mouse and human cancer.
2769,loss of imprinting in colorectal cancer linked to hypomethylation of h19 and igf2.,epigenetic alterations in human cancers include global dna hypomethylation gene hypomethylation and promoter hypermethylation  and loss of imprinting (loi) of the insulin-like growth factor-ii gene (igf2). a mechanism for loi described previously is hypermethylation of a differentially methylated region (dmr) upstream of the h19 gene  allowing activation of the normally silent maternal allele of igf2. here we show that this mechanism does not apply to colorectal cancers  which show hypomethylation of the h19 dmr as well as a dmr upstream of exon 3 of igf2. this hypomethylation is found in both colorectal cancers and normal mucosa from the same patients  and in cell lines with somatic cell knockout of dna methyltransferases dnmt1 and dnmt3b. these data suggest that hypomethylation is a mechanism for loi  that the popular igf2-h19 enhancer competition model for igf2 imprinting does not apply to the human colon  and that an alternative model for loi would involve a transcriptional repressor acting on the normally silent maternal allele of igf2.
2771,catch and release: how do kinetochores hook the right microtubules during mitosis?,sport fishermen keep tension on their lines to prevent hooked fish from releasing. a molecular version of this angler's trick  operating at kinetochores  ensures accuracy during mitosis: the mitotic spindle attaches randomly to chromosomes and then correctly bioriented attachments are stabilized due to the tension exerted on them by opposing microtubules. incorrect attachments  which lack tension  are unstable and release quickly  allowing another chance for biorientation. stabilization of molecular interactions by tension also occurs in other physiological contexts  such as cell adhesion  motility  hemostasis  and tissue morphogenesis. here  we review models for the stabilization of kinetochore attachments with an eye toward emerging models for other force-activated systems. although attention in the mitosis field has focused mainly on one kinase-based mechanism  multiple mechanisms may act together to stabilize properly bioriented kinetochores and some principles governing other tension-sensitive systems may also apply to kinetochores.
2773,applicability of current staging/categorization of α-synuclein pathology and their clinical relevance,in parkinson's disease (pd) and dementia with lewy bodies (dlb) alpha-synuclein (alphas) pathology is seen that displays a predictable topographic distribution. there are two staging/categorization systems  i.e. braak's and mckeith's  currently in use for the assessment of alphas pathology. the aim of these diagnostic strategies in pathology is  in addition to assess the stage/severity of pathology  to assess the probabilities of the related clinical symptomatology i.e. dementia and extrapyramidal symptoms (eps). herein  we assessed the applicability of these two staging/categorization systems and the frequency of dementia and eps in a cohort of 226 alphas-positive-subjects. these subject were selected from a large autopsy sample (n = 1 720)  irrespective of the clinical presentation  based on the detection of alphas-immunoreactivity (ir) in one of the most vulnerable nuclei; in the dorsal motor nucleus of vagus  substantia nigra and basal forebrain. the frequency of alphas-ir lesions in this large cohort was 14% (248 out of 1 720). if applicable  each of the 226 subjects with all required material available was assigned a neuropathological stage/category of pd/dlb and finally the neuropathological data was analyzed in relation to dementia and eps. 83% of subjects showed a distribution pattern of alphas-ir that was compatible with the current staging/categorization systems. around 55% of subjects with widespread alphas pathology (braak's pd stages 5-6) lacked clinical signs of dementia or eps. similarly  in respect to those subjects that fulfilled the mckeith criteria for diffuse neocortical category and displaying only mild concomitant alzheimer's disease-related pathology  only 48% were demented and 54% displayed eps. it is noteworthy that some subjects (17%) deviated from the suggested caudo-rostral propagation suggesting alternative routes of progression  perhaps due to concomitant diseases and genetic predisposition. in conclusion  our results do indeed confirm that current staging/categorization systems can readily be applied to most of the subjects with alphas pathology. however  finding that around half of the subjects with abundant alphas pathology remain neurologically intact is intriguing and raises the question whether we do assess the actual disease process.
2775,autocrine vegf signaling synergizes with egfr in tumor cells to promote epithelial cancer development,it is established that tumor cell-derived vegf acts on endothelial cells to promote angiogenesis and tumor growth. here  we demonstrate that in k5-sos-dependent mouse skin tumors  autocrine vegf is required for tumor cell proliferation in a cell-autonomous and angiogenesis-independent manner. vegf is upregulated in sos-expressing tumors  and its deletion in epidermal cells delays tumorigenesis by suppressing angiogenesis and tumor cell proliferation. epidermis-specific flt1 deletion also impairs tumorigenesis and proliferation. surprisingly  complete tumor inhibition occurs in the absence of vegf in egfr mutant mice  demonstrating that vegfr and egfr synergize in neoplastic cells to promote tumor growth. mechanistically  k5-sos upregulates vegf  flt1  and neuropilin-1 in an erk-dependent manner  thereby activating an autocrine proliferation loop  whereas egfr prevents tumor cells from apoptosis. moreover  flt1 is upregulated in human scc  and its inhibition in scc cells impairs proliferation. thus  in addition to regulating angiogenesis  vegf has to be considered as a potent growth factor for epidermal tumors.
2777,babies driving robots: self-generated mobility in very young infants,self-generated mobility via locomotion is a key for the cognitive  social and motor development of young infants. for certain children with special needs  self-generated mobility is only attained via assistive technology such as a power wheelchair. up until recently  infants under 24 months of age were not considered candidates for training in power mobility. recent work in our labs and others suggest that younger infants can utilize their reaching and grasping ability to learn power mobility. this interdisciplinary study combines our previous work in motor development and learning in infants with special needs  and the application of robot technology for rehabilitation to determine whether young infants without structured training  would drive a mobile robot  and if so  to determine how their driving would change over multiple sessions. the two infants that were seen for the most sessions were the focus of this pilot study. both infants increased their total session time  percentage of session time spent driving  and total path length. these results suggest that  without training  young infants will independently move themselves using a mobile robot. these results provide the foundation for training studies to advance the self-generated mobility in young infants with special needs. our future studies will explore the multiple training and technology combinations to reduce the barriers to exploration via self-generated mobility  and advance the general development of infants with special needs.
2779,natural mutagenesis of human genomes by endogenous retrotransposons,two abundant classes of mobile elements  namely alu and l1 elements  continue to generate new retrotransposon insertions in human genomes. estimates suggest that these elements have generated millions of new germline insertions in individual human genomes worldwide. unfortunately  current technologies are not capable of detecting most of these young insertions  and the true extent of germline mutagenesis by endogenous human retrotransposons has been difficult to examine. here  we describe technologies for detecting these young retrotransposon insertions and demonstrate that such insertions indeed are abundant in human populations. we also found that new somatic l1 insertions occur at high frequencies in human lung cancer genomes. genome-wide analysis suggests that altered dna methylation may be responsible for the high levels of l1 mobilization observed in these tumors. our data indicate that transposon-mediated mutagenesis is extensive in human genomes and is likely to have a major impact on human biology and diseases.
2781,recent insights into the role of notch signaling in tumorigenesis,members of the notch family of transmembrane receptors play an important role in cell fate determination. over the past decade  a role for notch in the pathogenesis of hematologic and solid malignancies has become apparent. numerous cellular functions and microenvironmental cues associated with tumorigenesis are modulated by notch signaling  including proliferation  apoptosis  adhesion  epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition  and angiogenesis. it is becoming increasingly evident that notch signaling can be both oncogenic and tumor suppressive. this review highlights recent findings regarding the molecular and functional aspects of notch-mediated neoplastic transformation. in addition  cellular mechanisms that potentially explain the complex role of notch in tumorigenesis are discussed.
2783,efficacy of monthly tafenoquine for prophylaxis of plasmodium vivax and multidrug-resistant p. falciparum malaria.,we assessed monthly doses of tafenoquine for preventing plasmodium vivax and multidrug-resistant p. falciparum malaria. in a randomized  double-blind  placebo-controlled study  205 thai soldiers received either a loading dose of tafenoquine 400 mg (base) daily for 3 days  followed by single monthly 400-mg doses (n = 104)  or placebo (n = 101)  for up to 5 consecutive months. in volunteers completing follow-up (96 tafenoquine and 91 placebo recipients)  there were 22 p. vivax  8 p. falciparum  and 1 mixed infection. all infections except 1 p. vivax occurred in placebo recipients  giving tafenoquine a protective efficacy of 97% for all malaria (95% confidence interval [ci]  82%-99%)  96% for p. vivax malaria (95% ci  76%-99%)  and 100% for p. falciparum malaria (95% ci  60%-100%). monthly tafenoquine was safe  well tolerated  and highly effective in preventing p. vivax and multidrug-resistant p. falciparum malaria in thai soldiers during 6 months of prophylaxis.
2785,characterization of adipocytes derived from fibro/adipogenic progenitors resident in human skeletal muscle,a population of fibro/adipogenic but non-myogenic progenitors located between skeletal muscle fibers was recently discovered. the aim of this study was to determine the extent to which these progenitors differentiate into fully functional adipocytes. the characterization of muscle progenitor-derived adipocytes is a central issue in understanding muscle homeostasis. they are considered as being the cellular origin of intermuscular adipose tissue that develops in several pathophysiological situations. here fibro/adipogenic progenitors were isolated from a panel of 15 human muscle biopsies on the basis of the specific cell-surface immunophenotype cd15+/pdgfrα+cd56-. this allowed investigations of their differentiation into adipocytes and the cellular functions of terminally differentiated adipocytes. adipogenic differentiation was found to be regulated by the same effectors as those regulating differentiation of progenitors derived from white subcutaneous adipose tissue. similarly  basic adipocyte functions  such as triglyceride synthesis and lipolysis occurred at levels similar to those observed with subcutaneous adipose tissue progenitor-derived adipocytes. however  muscle progenitor-derived adipocytes were found to be insensitive to insulin-induced glucose uptake  in association with the impairment of phosphorylation of key insulin-signaling effectors. our findings indicate that muscle adipogenic progenitors give rise to bona fide white adipocytes that have the unexpected feature of being insulin-resistant.
2787,ccr2 and cxcr4 regulate peripheral blood monocyte pharmacodynamics and link to efficacy in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis,background ccr2 plays a key role in regulating monocyte trafficking to sites of inflammation and therefore has been the focus of much interest as a target for inflammatory disease. methods here we examined the effects of ccr2 blockade with a potent small molecule antagonist to determine the pharmacodynamic consequences on the peripheral blood monocyte compartment in the context of acute and chronic inflammatory processes. results we demonstrate that ccr2 antagonism in vivo led to a rapid decrease in the number of circulating ly6chi monocytes and that this decrease was largely due to the cxcr4-dependent sequestration of these cells in the bone marrow  providing pharmacological evidence for a mechanism by which monocyte dynamics are regulated in vivo. ccr2 antagonism led to an accumulation of circulating ccl2 and ccl7 levels in the blood  indicating a role for ccr2 in regulating the levels of its ligands under homeostatic conditions. finally  we show that the pharmacodynamic changes due to ccr2 antagonism were apparent after chronic dosing in mouse experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis  a model in which ccr2 blockade demonstrated a dramatic reduction in disease severity  manifest in a reduced accumulation of monocytes and other cells in the cns. conclusion ccr2 antagonism in vivo has tractable pharmacodynamic effects that can be used to align target engagement with biologic effects on disease activity.
2789,control of developmental regulators by polycomb in human embryonic stem cells,polycomb group proteins are essential for early development in metazoans  but their contributions to human development are not well understood. we have mapped the polycomb repressive complex 2 (prc2) subunit suz12 across the entire nonrepeat portion of the genome in human embryonic stem (es) cells. we found that suz12 is distributed across large portions of over two hundred genes encoding key developmental regulators. these genes are occupied by nucleosomes trimethylated at histone h3k27  are transcriptionally repressed  and contain some of the most highly conserved noncoding elements in the genome. we found that prc2 target genes are preferentially activated during es cell differentiation and that the es cell regulators oct4  sox2  and nanog cooccupy a significant subset of these genes. these results indicate that prc2 occupies a special set of developmental genes in es cells that must be repressed to maintain pluripotency and that are poised for activation during es cell differentiation.
2791,human ‘brite / beige’ adipocytes develop from capillary networks and their implantation improves metabolic homeostasis in mice,uncoupling protein 1 (ucp1) is highly expressed in brown adipose tissue  where it generates heat by uncoupling electron transport from atp production. ucp1 is also found outside classical brown adipose tissue depots  in adipocytes that are termed 'brite' (brown-in-white) or 'beige'. in humans  the presence of brite or beige (brite/beige) adipocytes is correlated with a lean  metabolically healthy phenotype  but whether a causal relationship exists is not clear. here we report that human brite/beige adipocyte progenitors proliferate in response to pro-angiogenic factors  in association with expanding capillary networks. adipocytes formed from these progenitors transform in response to adenylate cyclase activation from being ucp1 negative to being ucp1 positive  which is a defining feature of the beige/brite phenotype  while displaying uncoupled respiration. when implanted into normal chow-fed  or into high-fat diet (hfd)-fed  glucose-intolerant nod-scid il2rg(null) (nsg) mice  brite/beige adipocytes activated in vitro enhance systemic glucose tolerance. these adipocytes express neuroendocrine and secreted factors  including the pro-protein convertase pcsk1  which is strongly associated with human obesity. pro-angiogenic conditions therefore drive the proliferation of human beige/brite adipocyte progenitors  and activated beige/brite adipocytes can affect systemic glucose homeostasis  potentially through a neuroendocrine mechanism.
2793,the origin and differentiation of microglial cells during development,some authors claim that microglia originate from the neuroepithelium  although most now believe that microglial cells are of mesodermal origin  and probably belong to the monocyte/macrophage cell line. these cells must enter the developing central nervous system (cns) from the blood stream  the ventricular space or the meninges. afterward microglial cells are distributed more or less homogeneously through the entire nervous parenchyma. stereotyped patterns of migration have been recognized during development  in which long-distance tangential migration precedes radial migration of individual cells. microglial cells moving through the nervous parenchyma are ameboid microglia  which apparently differentiate into ramified microglia after reaching their definitive location. this is supported by the presence of cells showing intermediate features between those of ameboid and ramified microglia. the factors that control the invasion of the nervous parenchyma  migration within the developing cns and differentiation of microglial cells are not well known. these phenomena apparently depend on environmental factors such as soluble or cell-surface bound molecules and components of the extracellular matrix. microglial cells within the developing cns are involved in clearing cell debris and withdrawing misdirected or transitory axons  and presumably support cell survival and neurite growth.
2795,effects of treatment for intestinal helminth infection on growth and cognitive performance in children: systematic review of randomised trials.,objective to summarise the effects of anthelmintic drug treatment on growth and cognitive performance in children. data sources electronic databases: cochrane infectious diseases group controlled trial register  cochrane controlled trials register  embase  and medline. citations of all identified trials. contact with the world health organization and field researchers. review methods systematic review of randomised controlled trials in children aged 1-16 that compared anthelmintic treatment with placebo or no treatment. assessment of validity and data abstraction conducted independently by two reviewers. main outcome measures growth and cognitive performance. results thirty randomised controlled trials in more than 15 000 children were identified. effects on mean weight were unremarkable  and heterogeneity was evident in the results. there were some positive effects on mean weight change in the trials reporting this outcome: after a single dose (any anthelmintic) the pooled estimates were 0.24 kg (95% confidence interval 0.15 kg to 0. 32 kg; fixed effects model assumed) and 0.38 kg (0.01 kg to 0.77 kg; random effects model assumed). results from trials of multiple doses showed mean weight change in up to one year of follow up of 0.10 kg (0.04 kg to 0.17 kg; fixed effects) or 0.15 kg (0.00 to 0.30; random effects). at more than one year of follow up  mean weight change was 0.12 kg (-0.02 kg to 0.26 kg; fixed effects) and 0.43 (-0.61 to 1. 47; random effects). results from studies of cognitive performance were inconclusive. conclusions there is some limited evidence that routine treatment of children in areas where helminths are common has effects on weight gain  but this is not consistent between trials. there is insufficient evidence as to whether this intervention improves cognitive performance.
2797,polycomb proteins remain bound to chromatin and dna during dna replication in vitro,the transcriptional status of a gene can be maintained through multiple rounds of cell division during development. this epigenetic effect is believed to reflect heritable changes in chromatin folding and histone modifications or variants at target genes  but little is known about how these chromatin features are inherited through cell division. a particular challenge for maintaining transcription states is dna replication  which disrupts or dilutes chromatin-associated proteins and histone modifications. prc1-class polycomb group protein complexes are essential for development and are thought to heritably silence transcription by altering chromatin folding and histone modifications. it is not known whether these complexes and their effects are maintained during dna replication or subsequently re-established. we find that when prc1-class polycomb complex-bound chromatin or dna is replicated in vitro  polycomb complexes remain bound to replicated templates. retention of polycomb proteins through dna replication may contribute to maintenance of transcriptional silencing through cell division.
2799,global regulation of h2a.z localization by the ino80 chromatin-remodeling enzyme is essential for genome integrity,ino80 is an evolutionarily conserved  atp-dependent chromatin-remodeling enzyme that plays roles in transcription  dna repair  and replication. here  we show that yeast ino80 facilitates these diverse processes at least in part by controlling genome-wide distribution of the histone variant h2a.z. in the absence of ino80  h2a.z nucleosomes are mislocalized  and h2a.z levels at promoters show reduced responsiveness to transcriptional changes  suggesting that ino80 controls h2a.z dynamics. additionally  we demonstrate that ino80 has a histone-exchange activity in which the enzyme can replace nucleosomal h2a.z/h2b with free h2a/h2b dimers. genetic interactions between ino80 and htz1 support a model in which ino80 catalyzes the removal of unacetylated h2a.z from chromatin as a mechanism to promote genome stability.
2801,a novel adaptor protein orchestrates receptor patterning and cytoskeletal polarity in t-cell contacts,recognition of antigen by t cells requires the formation of a specialized junction between the t cell and the antigen-presenting cell. this junction is generated by the recruitment and the exclusion of specific proteins from the contact area. the mechanisms that regulate these events are unknown. here we demonstrate that ligand engagement of the adhesion molecule  cd2  initiates a process of protein segregation  cd2 clustering  and cytoskeletal polarization. although protein segregation was not dependent on the cytoplasmic domain of cd2  cd2 clustering and cytoskeletal polarization required an interaction of the cd2 cytoplasmic domain with a novel sh3-containing protein. this novel protein  called cd2ap  is likely to facilitate receptor patterning in the contact area by linking specific adhesion receptors to the cytoskeleton.
2803,characterization of the adipocyte cellular lineage in vivo,mature adipocytes are generated through the proliferation and differentiation of precursor cells. our previous studies identified adipocyte progenitors in white adipose tissue (wat) as lin(-):cd29(+):cd34(+):sca-1(+):cd24(+) (cd24(+)) cells that are capable of generating functional wat (ref.  ). here  we employ several cre recombinase mouse models to identify the adipocyte cellular lineage in vivo. although it has been proposed that white adipocytes are derived from endothelial and haematopoietic lineages  we find that neither of these lineages label white adipocytes. however  platelet-derived growth factor receptor α (pdgfrα)-cre trace labels all white adipocytes. analysis of wat from pdgfrα-cre reporter mice identifies cd24(+) and lin(-):cd29(+):cd34(+):sca-1(+): cd24(-) (cd24(-)) cells as adipocyte precursors. we show that cd24(+) cells generate the cd24(-) population in vivo and the cd24(-) cells express late markers of adipogenesis. from these data we propose a model where the cd24(+) adipocyte progenitors become further committed to the adipocyte lineage as cd24 expression is lost  generating cd24(-) preadipocytes. this characterization of the adipocyte cellular lineage will facilitate the study of the mechanisms that regulate wat formation in vivo and wat mass expansion in obesity.
2805,golgi export of the kir2.1 channel is driven by a trafficking signal located within its tertiary structure,mechanisms that are responsible for sorting newly synthesized proteins for traffic to the cell surface from the golgi are poorly understood. here  we show that the potassium channel kir2.1  mutations in which are associated with andersen-tawil syndrome  is selected as cargo into golgi export carriers in an unusual signal-dependent manner. unlike conventional trafficking signals  which are typically comprised of short linear peptide sequences  golgi exit of kir2.1 is dictated by residues that are embedded within the confluence of two separate domains. this signal patch forms a recognition site for interaction with the ap1 adaptor complex  thereby marking kir2.1 for incorporation into clathrin-coated vesicles at the trans-golgi. the identification of a trafficking signal in the tertiary structure of kir2.1 reveals a quality control step that couples protein conformation to golgi export and provides molecular insight into how mutations in kir2.1 arrest the channels at the golgi.
2807,the evolution of dominance in sporophytic self-incompatibility systems. ii. mate availability and recombination,sporophytic self-incompatibility (ssi) is a self-pollen recognition system that enforces outcrossing in plants. recognition in ssi systems is typically controlled by a complex locus (5-locus) with separate genes that determine pollen and stigma specificity. experimental studies show that s-alleles can be dominant  recessive  or codominant  and that the dominance level of a given s-allele can depend upon whether pollen or stigma specificity is examined. here and in the companion paper by llaurens and colleagues  the evolution of dominance in single-locus ssi is explored using numerical models and simulation. particular attention is directed at factors that can cause s-allele dominance to differ in pollen versus stigma. the effect of recombination between the s-locus and modifier locus is also examined. the models predict that limitation in the number of compatible mates is required for the evolution of s-allele dominance in the stigma but not in the pollen. tight linkage between the s-locus and modifier promotes the evolution of s-allele dominance hierarchies. model results are interpreted with respect to published information on the molecular basis of dominance in ssi systems  and reported s-allele dominance relationships in a variety of species. these studies show that dominant s-alleles are more common in the pollen than in the stigma  a pattern that when interpreted in light of model predictions  suggests that mate limitation may be relatively infrequent in natural populations with ssi.
2809,the fidelity of the ligation step determines how ends are resolved during nonhomologous end joining,nonhomologous end joining (nhej) can effectively resolve chromosome breaks despite diverse end structures; however  it is unclear how the steps employed for resolution are determined. we sought to address this question by analysing cellular nhej of ends with systematically mispaired and damaged termini. we show nhej is uniquely proficient at bypassing subtle terminal mispairs and radiomimetic damage by direct ligation. nevertheless  bypass ability varies widely  with increases in mispair severity gradually reducing bypass products from 85 to 6%. end-processing by nucleases and polymerases is increased to compensate  although paths with the fewest number of steps to generate a substrate suitable for ligation are favoured. thus  both the frequency and nature of end processing are tailored to meet the needs of the ligation step. we propose a model where the ligase organizes all steps during nhej within the stable paired-end complex to limit end processing and associated errors.
2811,dna topoisomerases: structure  function  and mechanism.,dna topoisomerases solve the topological problems associated with dna replication  transcription  recombination  and chromatin remodeling by introducing temporary single- or double-strand breaks in the dna. in addition  these enzymes fine-tune the steady-state level of dna supercoiling both to facilitate protein interactions with the dna and to prevent excessive supercoiling that is deleterious. in recent years  the crystal structures of a number of topoisomerase fragments  representing nearly all the known classes of enzymes  have been solved. these structures provide remarkable insights into the mechanisms of these enzymes and complement previous conclusions based on biochemical analyses. surprisingly  despite little or no sequence homology  both type ia and type iia topoisomerases from prokaryotes and the type iia enzymes from eukaryotes share structural folds that appear to reflect functional motifs within critical regions of the enzymes. the type ib enzymes are structurally distinct from all other known topoisomerases but are similar to a class of enzymes referred to as tyrosine recombinases. the structural themes common to all topoisomerases include hinged clamps that open and close to bind dna  the presence of dna binding cavities for temporary storage of dna segments  and the coupling of protein conformational changes to dna rotation or dna movement. for the type ii topoisomerases  the binding and hydrolysis of atp further modulate conformational changes in the enzymes to effect changes in dna topology.
2813,increased microerythrocyte count in homozygous α+-thalassaemia contributes to protection against severe malarial anaemia,background the heritable haemoglobinopathy alpha(+)-thalassaemia is caused by the reduced synthesis of alpha-globin chains that form part of normal adult haemoglobin (hb). individuals homozygous for alpha(+)-thalassaemia have microcytosis and an increased erythrocyte count. alpha(+)-thalassaemia homozygosity confers considerable protection against severe malaria  including severe malarial anaemia (sma) (hb concentration < 50 g/l)  but does not influence parasite count. we tested the hypothesis that the erythrocyte indices associated with alpha(+)-thalassaemia homozygosity provide a haematological benefit during acute malaria. methods and findings data from children living on the north coast of papua new guinea who had participated in a case-control study of the protection afforded by alpha(+)-thalassaemia against severe malaria were reanalysed to assess the genotype-specific reduction in erythrocyte count and hb levels associated with acute malarial disease. we observed a reduction in median erythrocyte count of approximately 1.5 x 10(12)/l in all children with acute falciparum malaria relative to values in community children (p < 0.001). we developed a simple mathematical model of the linear relationship between hb concentration and erythrocyte count. this model predicted that children homozygous for alpha(+)-thalassaemia lose less hb than children of normal genotype for a reduction in erythrocyte count of >1.1 x 10(12)/l as a result of the reduced mean cell hb in homozygous alpha(+)-thalassaemia. in addition  children homozygous for alpha(+)-thalassaemia require a 10% greater reduction in erythrocyte count than children of normal genotype (p = 0.02) for hb concentration to fall to 50 g/l  the cutoff for sma. we estimated that the haematological profile in children homozygous for alpha(+)-thalassaemia reduces the risk of sma during acute malaria compared to children of normal genotype (relative risk 0.52; 95% confidence interval [ci] 0.24-1.12  p = 0.09). conclusions the increased erythrocyte count and microcytosis in children homozygous for alpha(+)-thalassaemia may contribute substantially to their protection against sma. a lower concentration of hb per erythrocyte and a larger population of erythrocytes may be a biologically advantageous strategy against the significant reduction in erythrocyte count that occurs during acute infection with the malaria parasite plasmodium falciparum. this haematological profile may reduce the risk of anaemia by other plasmodium species  as well as other causes of anaemia. other host polymorphisms that induce an increased erythrocyte count and microcytosis may confer a similar advantage.
2815,validated realtime reverse transcriptase pcr methods for the diagnosis and pathotyping of eurasian h7 avian influenza viruses,background avian influenza (ai) caused by h7 ai viruses (aivs) of both low pathogenicity (lp) and high pathogenicity (hp) are notifiable poultry diseases. objectives design and validate two realtime reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reactions (rrt pcrs) for eurasian h7 aiv detection and pathotyping. methods the h7 rrt pcrs amplified within the (i) ha2 and (ii) cleavage site cs regions of the haemagglutinin gene. both were validated against 65 h7 aivs  57 non-h7 aivs and 259 poultry swabs in comparison to m gene (ai generic) rrt pcr and virus isolation (vi). an additional 38 swabs and 20 tissue specimens extended validation against m gene rrt pcr. results both h7 rrt pcrs amplified all 61 eurasian lineage h7 aivs and none of 57 non-h7 aivs. a total of 297 poultry swabs were used to determine diagnostic sensitivity and specificity relative to m gene rrt pcr  sensitivity was 95.4% and 64.6% for the ha2 and cs rrt pcrs respectively  and specificity 97.9% and 99.6% respectively. the h7 ha2 rrt pcr was more sensitive than vi. this was emphasized by analysis of 37 swabs from turkeys infected experimentally with hpai h7n1 virus sampled at 24 hours post-inoculation and lpai h7n1 chicken infections sampled at 40-64 hours. although less sensitive  usefulness of the h7 cs rrt pcr was confirmed by the correct molecular pathotyping for all 61 eurasian lineage h7 aivs tested. conclusions the high sensitivity of h7 ha2 rrt pcr confirms its suitability for use in poultry surveillance and disease diagnosis. h7 cs rrt pcr provides an opportunity for rapid pathotyping of h7 aivs.
2817,plasma exosomes can deliver exogenous short interfering rna to monocytes and lymphocytes,despite the promise of rna interference (rnai) and its potential  e.g. for use in cancer therapy  several technical obstacles must first be overcome. the major hurdle of rnai-based therapeutics is to deliver nucleic acids across the cell's plasma membrane. this study demonstrates that exosome vesicles derived from humans can deliver short interfering rna (sirna) to human mononuclear blood cells. exosomes are nano-sized vesicles of endocytic origin that are involved in cell-to-cell communication  i.e. antigen presentation  tolerance development and shuttle rna (mainly mrna and microrna). having tested different strategies  an optimized method (electroporation) was used to introduce sirna into human exosomes of various origins. plasma exosomes (exosomes from peripheral blood) were used as gene delivery vector (gdv) to transport exogenous sirna to human blood cells. the vesicles effectively delivered the administered sirna into monocytes and lymphocytes  causing selective gene silencing of mitogen-activated protein kinase 1. these data suggest that human exosomes can be used as a gdv to provide cells with heterologous nucleic acids such as therapeutic sirnas.
2819,dynamic control of excitatory synapse development by a rac1 gef/gap regulatory complex.,the small gtpase rac1 orchestrates actin-dependent remodeling essential for numerous cellular processes including synapse development. while precise spatiotemporal regulation of rac1 is necessary for its function  little is known about the mechanisms that enable rac1 activators (gefs) and inhibitors (gaps) to act in concert to regulate rac1 signaling. here  we identify a regulatory complex composed of a rac-gef (tiam1) and a rac-gap (bcr) that cooperate to control excitatory synapse development. disruption of bcr function within this complex increases rac1 activity and dendritic spine remodeling  resulting in excessive synaptic growth that is rescued by tiam1 inhibition. notably  ephb receptors utilize the tiam1-bcr complex to control synaptogenesis. following ephb activation  tiam1 induces rac1-dependent spine formation  whereas bcr prevents rac1-mediated receptor internalization  promoting spine growth over retraction. the finding that a rac-specific gef/gap complex is required to maintain optimal levels of rac1 signaling provides an important insight into the regulation of small gtpases.
2821,ultrafast evolution and loss of crisprs following a host shift in a novel wildlife pathogen  mycoplasma gallisepticum,measureable rates of genome evolution are well documented in human pathogens but are less well understood in bacterial pathogens in the wild  particularly during and after host switches. mycoplasma gallisepticum (mg) is a pathogenic bacterium that has evolved predominantly in poultry and recently jumped to wild house finches (carpodacus mexicanus)  a common north american songbird. for the first time we characterize the genome and measure rates of genome evolution in house finch isolates of mg  as well as in poultry outgroups. using whole-genome sequences of 12 house finch isolates across a 13-year serial sample and an additional four newly sequenced poultry strains  we estimate a nucleotide diversity in house finch isolates of only ∼2% of ancestral poultry strains and a nucleotide substitution rate of 0.8-1.2×10(-5) per site per year both in poultry and in house finches  an exceptionally fast rate rivaling some of the highest estimates reported thus far for bacteria. we also found high diversity and complete turnover of crispr arrays in poultry mg strains prior to the switch to the house finch host  but after the invasion of house finches there is progressive loss of crispr repeat diversity  and recruitment of novel crispr repeats ceases. recent (2007) house finch mg strains retain only ∼50% of the crispr repertoire founding (1994-95) strains and have lost the crispr-associated genes required for crispr function. our results suggest that genome evolution in bacterial pathogens of wild birds can be extremely rapid and in this case is accompanied by apparent functional loss of crisprs.
2823,homocysteine and the risk of ischemic stroke in a triethnic cohort: the northern manhattan study.,background and purpose the level of total homocysteine (thcy) that confers a risk of ischemic stroke is unsettled  and no prospective cohort studies have included sufficient elderly minority subjects. we investigated the association between mild to moderate fasting thcy level and the incidence of ischemic stroke  myocardial infarction  and vascular death in a multiethnic prospective study. methods a population-based cohort was followed for vascular events (stroke  myocardial infarction  and vascular death). baseline values of thcy and methylmalonic acid were measured among 2939 subjects (mean age  69+/-10; 61% women  53% hispanics  24% blacks  and 20% whites). cox proportional models were used to calculate hazard ratios (hrs) and 95% cis in thcy categories after adjusting for age  race  education  renal insufficiency  b12 deficiency  and other risk factors. results the adjusted hr for a thcy level > or =15 micromol/l compared with <10 micromol/l was greatest for vascular death (hr=6.04; 95% ci  3.44 to 10.60)  followed by combined vascular events (hr=2.27; 95% ci  1.51 to 3.43)  ischemic stroke (hr=2.01; 95% ci  1.00 to 4.05)  and nonvascular death (hr=2.02; 95% ci  1.31 to 3.14). mild to moderate elevations of thcy of 10 to 15 micromol/l were not significantly predictive of ischemic stroke  but increased the risk of vascular death (2.27; 95% ci  1.44 to 3.60) and combined vascular events (1.42; 95% ci  1.06 to 1.88). the effect of thcy was stronger among whites and hispanics  but not a significant risk factor for blacks. conclusions total hcy elevations above 15 micromol/l are an independent risk factor for ischemic stroke  whereas mild elevations of thcy of 10 to 15 micromol/l are less predictive. the vascular effects of thcy are greatest among whites and hispanics  and less among blacks.
2825,detection of alternative lengthening of telomeres by telomere quantitative pcr,alternative lengthening of telomeres (alt) is one of the two known telomere length maintenance mechanisms that are essential for the unlimited proliferation potential of cancer cells. existing methods for detecting alt in tumors require substantial amounts of tumor material and are labor intensive  making it difficult to study prevalence and prognostic significance of alt in large tumor cohorts. here  we present a novel strategy utilizing telomere quantitative pcr to diagnose alt. the protocol is more rapid than conventional methods and scrutinizes two distinct characteristics of alt cells concurrently: long telomeres and the presence of c-circles (partially double-stranded circles of telomeric c-strand dna). requiring only 30 ng of genomic dna  this protocol will facilitate large-scale studies of alt in tumors and can be readily adopted by clinical laboratories.
2827,long-term financing needs for hiv control in sub-saharan africa in 2015-2050: a modelling study.,objectives to estimate the present value of current and future funding needed for hiv treatment and prevention in 9 sub-saharan african (ssa) countries that account for 70% of hiv burden in africa under different scenarios of intervention scale-up. to analyse the gaps between current expenditures and funding obligation  and discuss the policy implications of future financing needs. design we used the goals module from spectrum  and applied the most up-to-date cost and coverage data to provide a range of estimates for future financing obligations. the four different scale-up scenarios vary by treatment initiation threshold and service coverage level. we compared the model projections to current domestic and international financial sources available in selected ssa countries. results in the 9 ssa countries  the estimated resources required for hiv prevention and treatment in 2015-2050 range from us$98 billion to maintain current coverage levels for treatment and prevention with eligibility for treatment initiation at cd4 count of <500/mm(3) to us$261 billion if treatment were to be extended to all hiv-positive individuals and prevention scaled up. with the addition of new funding obligations for hiv--which arise implicitly through commitment to achieve higher than current treatment coverage levels--overall financial obligations (sum of debt levels and the present value of the stock of future hiv funding obligations) would rise substantially. conclusions investing upfront in scale-up of hiv services to achieve high coverage levels will reduce hiv incidence  prevention and future treatment expenditures by realising long-term preventive effects of art to reduce hiv transmission. future obligations are too substantial for most ssa countries to be met from domestic sources alone. new sources of funding  in addition to domestic sources  include innovative financing. debt sustainability for sustained hiv response is an urgent imperative for affected countries and donors.
2829,extensive promoter-centered chromatin interactions provide a topological basis for transcription regulation,higher-order chromosomal organization for transcription regulation is poorly understood in eukaryotes. using genome-wide chromatin interaction analysis with paired-end-tag sequencing (chia-pet)  we mapped long-range chromatin interactions associated with rna polymerase ii in human cells and uncovered widespread promoter-centered intragenic  extragenic  and intergenic interactions. these interactions further aggregated into higher-order clusters  wherein proximal and distal genes were engaged through promoter-promoter interactions. most genes with promoter-promoter interactions were active and transcribed cooperatively  and some interacting promoters could influence each other implying combinatorial complexity of transcriptional controls. comparative analyses of different cell lines showed that cell-specific chromatin interactions could provide structural frameworks for cell-specific transcription  and suggested significant enrichment of enhancer-promoter interactions for cell-specific functions. furthermore  genetically-identified disease-associated noncoding elements were found to be spatially engaged with corresponding genes through long-range interactions. overall  our study provides insights into transcription regulation by three-dimensional chromatin interactions for both housekeeping and cell-specific genes in human cells.
2831,the pervasiveness and plasticity of circadian oscillations: the coupled circadian-oscillators framework.,motivation circadian oscillations have been observed in animals  plants  fungi and cyanobacteria and play a fundamental role in coordinating the homeostasis and behavior of biological systems. genetically encoded molecular clocks found in nearly every cell  based on negative transcription/translation feedback loops and involving only a dozen genes  play a central role in maintaining these oscillations. however  high-throughput gene expression experiments reveal that in a typical tissue  a much larger fraction ([formula: see text]) of all transcripts oscillate with the day-night cycle and the oscillating species vary with tissue type suggesting that perhaps a much larger fraction of all transcripts  and perhaps also other molecular species  may bear the potential for circadian oscillations. results to better quantify the pervasiveness and plasticity of circadian oscillations  we conduct the first large-scale analysis aggregating the results of 18 circadian transcriptomic studies and 10 circadian metabolomic studies conducted in mice using different tissues and under different conditions. we find that over half of protein coding genes in the cell can produce transcripts that are circadian in at least one set of conditions and similarly for measured metabolites. genetic or environmental perturbations can disrupt existing oscillations by changing their amplitudes and phases  suppressing them or giving rise to novel circadian oscillations. the oscillating species and their oscillations provide a characteristic signature of the physiological state of the corresponding cell/tissue. molecular networks comprise many oscillator loops that have been sculpted by evolution over two trillion day-night cycles to have intrinsic circadian frequency. these oscillating loops are coupled by shared nodes in a large network of coupled circadian oscillators where the clock genes form a major hub. cells can program and re-program their circadian repertoire through epigenetic and other mechanisms. availability and implementation high-resolution and tissue/condition specific circadian data and networks available at http://circadiomics.igb.uci.edu. contact pfbaldi@ics.uci.edu   supplementary information supplementary data are available at bioinformatics online.
2833,thrombocytopenia as an indicator of malaria in adult population,objectives. to evaluate the predictive value of thrombocytopenia in malaria. patients and methods. it was a prospective observational study on all febrile patients with thrombocytopenia presenting to the medical unit of hayat abad medical complex during november 2008 to november 2010. results. of the total of 228 patients with fever and thrombocytopenia  121 patients (53%) proved to be suffering from malaria. of them 82 patients (68%) had falciparum malaria while 39 patients (32%) had vivax infection. of these 121 patients  platelet counts ranged between 25 000 and 150 000/dl with a mean value of 101 000/dl (sd ± 47  500) and a median of 75 000/dl. of the 107 patients who were not suffering from malaria  the counts ranged between 10 000 and 150 000/dl with a mean value of 58 000/dl (sd ± 54  000) and median of 50 000/dl. conclusions. the presence of thrombocytopenia may be a predictor of malaria in adult population.
2835,ncf1 (p47phox) is essential for direct regulatory t cell mediated suppression of cd4+ effector t cells,background multiple mechanisms have been advanced to account for cd4+foxp3+ regulatory t cell (treg)-mediated suppression of cd4+ effector t cells (teffs) but none appear to completely explain suppression. previous data indicates that tregs may affect the microenvironment redox state. given the inherent redox sensitivity of t cells  we tested the hypothesis that oxidants may mediate the direct suppression of teffs by tregs. methodology/principal findings tregs and teffs were isolated from the spleens of wild type (wt) c57bl/6 mice or ncf1(p47phox)-deficient c57bl/6 mice which lack nadph oxidase function. teffs were labeled with cfse and co-cultured with unlabeled tregs at varying treg:teff ratios in the presence of anti-cd3/cd28 coated beads for 3 days in suppression assays. treg-mediated suppression was quantified by flow cytometric analysis of cfse dilution in teffs. the presence of the antioxidants n-acetylcysteine (nac) or 2-mercaptoethanol or inhibitors of nadph oxidase (diphenyleneiodonium and vas-2870) resulted in reduced wt treg-mediated suppression. the observed suppression was in part dependent upon tgfβ as it was partially blocked with neutralizing antibodies. the suppression of teff proliferation induced by exogenous tgfβ treatment could be overcome with nac. ncf1-deficient teff were slightly but significantly less sensitive than wt teff to suppression by exogenous tgfβ. ncf1-deficient tregs suppressed ncf1-deficient teff very poorly compared to wild type controls. there was partial but incomplete reconstitution of suppression in assays with wt tregs and ncf1-deficient teff. conclusions/significance we present evidence that nadph oxidase derived ros plays a role in the direct treg mediated suppression of cd4+ effector t cells in a process that is blocked by thiol-containing antioxidants  nadph oxidase inhibitors or a lack of ncf1 expression in tregs and teffs. oxidants may represent a potential new target for therapeutic modulation of treg function.
2837,expression profiles during dedifferentiation in newt lens regeneration revealed by expressed sequence tags,purpose the adult newt can regenerate lens from pigmented epithelial cells (pecs) of the dorsal iris via dedifferentiation. the purpose of this research is to obtain sequence resources for a newt lens regeneration study and to obtain insights of dedifferentiation at the molecular level. methods mrna was purified from iris during dedifferentiation and its cdna library was constructed. from the cdna library 10 449 clones were sequenced and analyzed. results from 10 449 reads  780 contigs and 1 666 singlets were annotated. the presence of several cancer- and apoptosis-related genes during newt dedifferentiation was revealed. moreover  several candidate genes  which might participate in reprogramming during dedifferentiation  were also found. conclusions the expression of cancer- and apoptosis-related genes could be hallmarks during dedifferentiation. the expression sequence tag (est) resource is useful for the future study of newt dedifferentiation  and the sequence information is available in genbank (accession numbers; fs290155-fs300559).
2839,the role of the tissue omega-6/omega-3 fatty acid ratio in regulating tumor angiogenesis,angiogenesis is a necessary step in tumor growth and metastasis. it is well established that the metabolites of omega-6 and omega-3 fatty acids  which must be obtained through the diet and cannot be synthesized de novo in mammals  have differential effects on cellular processes. omega-6 fatty acid (n−6 fa)-derived metabolites promote angiogenesis by increasing growth factor expression whereas omega-3 fatty acids (n−3 fa) have anti-angiogenic and antitumor properties. however  most studies thus far have failed to account for the role of the n−6 fa/n−3 fa ratio in angiogenesis and instead examined the absolute levels of n−6 and n−3 fa. this review highlights the biochemical interactions between n−6 and n−3 fa and focuses on how the n−6/n−3 fa ratio in tissues modulates tumor angiogenesis. we suggest that future work should consider the n−6/n−3 fa ratio to be a key element in experimental design and analysis. furthermore  we recommend that clinical interventions should aim to both reduce n−6 metabolites and simultaneously increase n−3 fa intake.
2841,establishment of human ipsc-based models for the study and targeting of glioma initiating cells,glioma tumour-initiating cells (gtics) can originate upon the transformation of neural progenitor cells (npcs). studies on gtics have focused on primary tumours from which gtics could be isolated and the use of human embryonic material. recently  the somatic genomic landscape of human gliomas has been reported. rtk (receptor tyrosine kinase) and p53 signalling were found dysregulated in ∼90% and 86% of all primary tumours analysed  respectively. here we report on the use of human-induced pluripotent stem cells (hipscs) for modelling gliomagenesis. dysregulation of rtk and p53 signalling in hipsc-derived npcs (inpcs) recapitulates gtic properties in vitro. in vivo transplantation of transformed inpcs leads to highly aggressive tumours containing undifferentiated stem cells and their differentiated derivatives. metabolic modulation compromises gtic viability. last  screening of 101 anti-cancer compounds identifies three molecules specifically targeting transformed inpcs and primary gtics. together  our results highlight the potential of hipscs for studying human tumourigenesis.
2843,assessing the cerna hypothesis with quantitative measurements of mirna and target abundance.,recent studies have reported that competitive endogenous rnas (cernas) can act as sponges for a microrna (mirna) through their binding sites and that changes in cerna abundances from individual genes can modulate the activity of mirnas. consideration of this hypothesis would benefit from knowing the quantitative relationship between a mirna and its endogenous target sites. here  we altered intracellular target site abundance through expression of an mir-122 target in hepatocytes and livers and analyzed the effects on mir-122 target genes. target repression was released in a threshold-like manner at high target site abundance (≥1.5 × 10(5) added target sites per cell)  and this threshold was insensitive to the effective levels of the mirna. furthermore  in response to extreme metabolic liver disease models  global target site abundance of hepatocytes did not change sufficiently to affect mirna-mediated repression. thus  modulation of mirna target abundance is unlikely to cause significant effects on gene expression and metabolism through a cerna effect.
2845,prodromal non-motor symptoms of parkinson’s disease,the motor symptoms of parkinson’s disease (pd)  bradykinesia  muscular rigidity  and tremor depend upon degeneration of the dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. recent neuropathological studies show that the lewy bodies  the intraneuronal landmark of pd  accumulate in several neuronal cell types in the brain. an ascending gradient of pathological involvement  from the medulla oblongata to neocortical areas has been reported. thus the original view of pd as a disease characterized by selective damage of the dopaminergic neurons in the mesencephalon should be updated into the concept of a severe multisystemic neurodegenerative disorder. additionally  the neuropathological alterations outside the substantia nigra are soundly correlated with the non-motor symptoms of pd. as a result of these findings  interest is growing in the identification of prodromal non-motor symptoms of pd. indeed  data from the literature suggest that autonomic disturbances  olfactory dysfunctions  depression and sleep disorders (in particular rem-sleep behavior disorder) may represent prodromal non-motor symptoms of pd. several tests are available to detect most of these symptoms. thus  the identification of prodromal non-motor symptoms may contribute to the precocious diagnosis of pd  and might be useful in the future to test the efficacy of neuroprotective agents.
2847,noncanonical wnt signaling promotes obesity-induced adipose tissue inflammation and metabolic dysfunction independent of adipose tissue expansion,adipose tissue dysfunction plays a pivotal role in the development of insulin resistance in obese individuals. cell culture studies and gain-of-function mouse models suggest that canonical wnt proteins modulate adipose tissue expansion. however  no genetic evidence supports a role for endogenous wnt proteins in adipose tissue dysfunction  and the role of noncanonical wnt signaling remains largely unexplored. here we provide evidence from human  mouse  and cell culture studies showing that wnt5a-mediated  noncanonical wnt signaling contributes to obesity-associated metabolic dysfunction by increasing adipose tissue inflammation. wnt5a expression is significantly upregulated in human visceral fat compared with subcutaneous fat in obese individuals. in obese mice  wnt5a ablation ameliorates insulin resistance  in parallel with reductions in adipose tissue inflammation. conversely  wnt5a overexpression in myeloid cells augments adipose tissue inflammation and leads to greater impairments in glucose homeostasis. wnt5a ablation or overexpression did not affect fat mass or adipocyte size. mechanistically  wnt5a promotes the expression of proinflammatory cytokines by macrophages in a jun nh2-terminal kinase-dependent manner  leading to defective insulin signaling in adipocytes. exogenous interleukin-6 administration restores insulin resistance in obese wnt5a-deficient mice  suggesting a central role for this cytokine in wnt5a-mediated metabolic dysfunction. taken together  these results demonstrate that noncanonical wnt signaling contributes to obesity-induced insulin resistance independent of adipose tissue expansion.
2849,synergistic activity of the histone deacetylase inhibitor suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid and the bisphosphonate zoledronic acid against prostate cancer cells in vitro.,bisphosphonates are widely used agents for the treatment of malignant bone disease. they inhibit osteoclast-mediated bone resorption and can have direct effects on cancer cells. in this study  we investigated whether the anticancer activity of the third-generation bisphosphonate zoledronic acid (zol) could be enhanced by combination with the histone deacetylase inhibitor suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid (saha). we found that zol and saha cooperated to induce cell death in the prostate cancer cell lines lncap and pc-3. the effect was synergistic  as evidenced by combination index isobologram analysis. zol and saha synergized to induce dissipation of the mitochondrial transmembrane potential  to activate caspase-3  and to trigger dna fragmentation  showing that the combination of zol and saha resulted in the initiation of apoptosis. because zol acts by inhibiting the mevalonate pathway  thereby preventing protein prenylation  we explored whether the mevalonate pathway was also the target of the cooperative action of zol and saha. we found that geranylgeraniol  but not farnesol  significantly reduced zol/saha-induced cell death  indicating that the synergistic action of the agents was due to the inhibition of geranylgeranylation. consistently  a direct inhibitor of geranylgeranylation  ggti-298  synergized with saha to induce cell death  whereas an inhibitor of farnesylation  fti-277  had no effect. in addition  saha synergized with mevastatin  an inhibitor of the proximal enzyme in the mevalonate pathway. these in vitro findings provide a rationale for an in vivo exploration into the potential of combining saha and zol  or other inhibitors of the mevalonate pathway  as an effective strategy for anticancer therapy.
2851,murine embryonic stem cell differentiation is promoted by socs-3 and inhibited by the zinc finger transcription factor klf4.,embryonic stem (es) cells homozygous for a shp-2 mutation (shp-2(delta46-110)) demonstrate leukemia inhibitory factor (lif) hypersensitivity and increased lif-stimulated phosphorylation of signal transducer and activator of transcription (stat3). we hypothesized that lif-responsive genes in shp-2(delta46-110) cells would represent potential candidates for molecules vital for es cell self-renewal. using microarray analysis  we detected 41 genes whose expression was modified by lif in shp-2(delta46-110) es cells. induction of 2 significantly up-regulated genes  suppressor of cytokine signaling-3 (socs-3) and kruppel-like factor 4 (klf4)  was verified using northern blotting. es cells overexpressing socs-3 had an increased capacity to differentiate to hematopoietic progenitors  rather than to self-renew. in contrast  es cells overexpressing klf4 had a greater capacity to self-renew based on secondary embryoid body (eb) formation. klf4-transduced d6 ebs expressed higher levels of oct-4  consistent with the notion that klf4 promotes es cell self-renewal. these findings verify the negative role of socs-3 on lif signaling and provide a novel role for klf4 in es cell function.
2853,comparison of maximal oxygen consumption between black and white prepubertal and pubertal children,the purpose of this investigation was to determine whether maximal oxygen consumption (vo2max) differed between two selected groups of black and white children and whether a difference existed to determine whether it was related to hematologic profiles  body composition  and/or physical activity/inactivity level. forty-five prepubertal and 42 pubertal  clinically normal black and white children participated. dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry was used to determine body composition. a computed tomography scan of the abdomen was used to determine visceral adipose tissue and s.c. adipose tissue. daily physical activity/inactivity was assessed by questionnaire. black prepubertal and pubertal children had lower vo2max values when compared with white children (28.8 ± 7.8 versus 35.0 ± 6.5 ml · kg−1 · min−1  p < 0.01; 33.7 ± 6.4 versus 40.4 ± 10.2 ml · kg−1 · min−1  p < 0.05; respectively). black prepubertal and pubertal children had lower hb concentrations ([hb]) and hematocrits than white children (prepubertal: 12.1 ± 0.5 versus 12.8 ± 0.9 g/dl  p < 0.001; 35.6 ± 1.4 versus 37.4 ± 2.3%  p < 0.01  respectively; pubertal: 13.0 ± 0.9 versus 13.6 ± 0.7 g/dl  p < 0.05; 37.7 ± 2.5 versus 39.5 ± 2.1%  p < 0.05  respectively). in conclusion  these findings indicate that black prepubertal and pubertal children had lower vo2max when compared with their white peers matched for age  pubertal stage  and body mass index. this difference in vo2max could be attributed at least in part to comparatively lower [hb] and more sedentary lifestyle in the black children. further investigations should study hb flow rate (a function of [hb] × maximal cardiac output) in black and white children as it relates to vo2max.
2855,british journal of nutrition (2003)  89  295–301 q the authors 2003 doi: 10.1079/bjn2002776 plasma homocysteine concentration is decreased by dietary intervention*,high plasma total homocysteine (thcy) concentration is reported to be a risk factor for vascular diseases. we investigated the extent to which serum folate and plasma thcy respond to a high intake of natural folate from food. thirty-seven healthy females volunteered t o participate in a crossover dietary intervention. the study included a baseline period and two 5-week diet periods (low- and high-folate diets) with a 3-week washout in between. the low-folate diet contained one serving of both vegetables and fruit/d  while during the high-folate diet the subjects ate at least seven servings of vegetables  berries  and citrus fruit/d. serum and erythrocyte (rbc) folate  serum vitamin b (12)  and plasma thcy concentrations were measured at the base-line and at the end of each diet period. the mean concentrations of serum and rbc folate were 11.0 (sd 3.0) nmol/l and 412 (sd 120) nmol/l at the end of the low-folate diet and 78 (95 % ci 62  94) % and 14 (95 % ci 8  20) % higher in response to the high-folate diet (p< 0.001). the serum concentration of vitamin b12 remained unchanged during the intervention. the mean plasma thcy concentration was 8.0 pmol/ at the end of the low-folate diet and decreased by 13 (95% ci 9  18) % in response to the high-folate diet (p<0.001). in conclusion  a diet high in fresh berries  citrus fruit  and vegetables effectively increases serum and rbc folate and decreases plasma homocysteine.
2857,evaluation of reagent strips in detecting asymptomatic bacteriuria in early pregnancy: prospective case series.,objective to evaluate the performance of reagent test strips in screening pregnant women for asymptomatic bacteriuria at their first visit to an antenatal clinic. design prospective case series. setting antenatal clinic of a large inner city maternity hospital. subjects all women attending for their first antenatal clinic. patients taking antibiotics for any reason and those with urinary tract symptoms were excluded. intervention a midstream urine specimen was divided; half was sent for microscopy and formal bacteriological culture and the other half was tested with a commercial reagent strip test for the presence of blood  protein  nitrite  and leucocyte esterase. main outcome measures sensitivity  specificity  and positive and negative predictive values of the reagent strips in diagnosing asymptomatic bacteriuria (defined as 10(5) colony forming units/ml urine). results sensitivity was low  with a maximum of 33% when all four tests were used in combination. specificity was high  with typical values of 99% or more. positive predictive value reached a maximum of 69% and negative predictive value was typically 95% or more. conclusion urine reagent strips are not sufficiently sensitive to be of use in the screening for asymptomatic bacteriuria and therefore many patients would be missed. in view of the potentially serious sequelae of this condition in pregnant women we recommend that formal bacteriological investigation remain the investigation of choice in this group of patients.
2859,the rna polymerase “switch region” is a target for inhibitors,the alpha-pyrone antibiotic myxopyronin (myx) inhibits bacterial rna polymerase (rnap). here  through a combination of genetic  biochemical  and structural approaches  we show that myx interacts with the rnap "switch region"--the hinge that mediates opening and closing of the rnap active center cleft--to prevent interaction of rnap with promoter dna. we define the contacts between myx and rnap and the effects of myx on rnap conformation and propose that myx functions by interfering with opening of the rnap active-center cleft during transcription initiation. we further show that the structurally related alpha-pyrone antibiotic corallopyronin (cor) and the structurally unrelated macrocyclic-lactone antibiotic ripostatin (rip) function analogously to myx. the rnap switch region is distant from targets of previously characterized rnap inhibitors  and  correspondingly  myx  cor  and rip do not exhibit crossresistance with previously characterized rnap inhibitors. the rnap switch region is an attractive target for identification of new broad-spectrum antibacterial therapeutic agents.
2861,development of a novel mouse glioma model using lentiviral vectors,we report the development of a new method to induce glioblastoma multiforme in adult immunocompetent mice by injecting cre-loxp–controlled lentiviral vectors expressing oncogenes. cell type- or region-specific expression of activated forms of the oncoproteins harvey-ras and akt in fewer than 60 glial fibrillary acidic protein–positive cells in the hippocampus  subventricular zone or cortex of mice heterozygous for the gene encoding the tumor suppressor tp53 were tested. mice developed glioblastoma multiforme when transduced either in the subventricular zone or the hippocampus. however  tumors were rarely detected when the mice were transduced in the cortex. transplantation of brain tumor cells into naive recipient mouse brain resulted in the formation of glioblastoma multiforme–like tumors  which contained cd133+ cells  formed tumorspheres and could differentiate into neurons and astrocytes. we suggest that the use of cre-loxp–controlled lentiviral vectors is a novel way to generate a mouse glioblastoma multiforme model in a region- and cell type-specific manner in adult mice.
2863,swi1timeless prevents repeat instability at fission yeast telomeres,genomic instability associated with dna replication stress is linked to cancer and genetic pathologies in humans. if not properly regulated  replication stress  such as fork stalling and collapse  can be induced at natural replication impediments present throughout the genome. the fork protection complex (fpc) is thought to play a critical role in stabilizing stalled replication forks at several known replication barriers including eukaryotic rdna genes and the fission yeast mating-type locus. however  little is known about the role of the fpc at other natural impediments including telomeres. telomeres are considered to be difficult to replicate due to the presence of repetitive gt-rich sequences and telomere-binding proteins. however  the regulatory mechanism that ensures telomere replication is not fully understood. here  we report the role of the fission yeast swi1(timeless)  a subunit of the fpc  in telomere replication. loss of swi1 causes telomere shortening in a telomerase-independent manner. our epistasis analyses suggest that heterochromatin and telomere-binding proteins are not major impediments for telomere replication in the absence of swi1. instead  repetitive dna sequences impair telomere integrity in swi1δ mutant cells  leading to the loss of repeat dna. in the absence of swi1  telomere shortening is accompanied with an increased recruitment of rad52 recombinase and more frequent amplification of telomere/subtelomeres  reminiscent of tumor cells that utilize the alternative lengthening of telomeres pathway (alt) to maintain telomeres. these results suggest that swi1 ensures telomere replication by suppressing recombination and repeat instability at telomeres. our studies may also be relevant in understanding the potential role of swi1(timeless) in regulation of telomere stability in cancer cells.
2865,nipbl  encoding a homolog of fungal scc2-type sister chromatid cohesion proteins and fly nipped-b  is mutated in cornelia de lange syndrome,cornelia de lange syndrome (cdls) is a multiple malformation disorder characterized by dysmorphic facial features  mental retardation  growth delay and limb reduction defects. we indentified and characterized a new gene  nipbl  that is mutated in individuals with cdls and determined its structure and the structures of mouse  rat and zebrafish homologs. we named its protein product delangin. vertebrate delangins have substantial homology to orthologs in flies  worms  plants and fungi  including scc2-type sister chromatid cohesion proteins  and d. melanogaster nipped-b. we propose that perturbed delangin function may inappropriately activate dlx genes  thereby contributing to the proximodistal limb patterning defects in cdls. genome analyses typically identify individual delangin or nipped-b-like orthologs in diploid animal and plant genomes. the evolution of an ancestral sister chromatid cohesion protein to acquire an additional role in developmental gene regulation suggests that there are parallels between cdls and roberts syndrome.
2867,vesicular glycolysis provides on-board energy for fast axonal transport,fast axonal transport (fat) requires consistent energy over long distances to fuel the molecular motors that transport vesicles. we demonstrate that glycolysis provides atp for the fat of vesicles. although inhibiting atp production from mitochondria did not affect vesicles motility  pharmacological or genetic inhibition of the glycolytic enzyme gapdh reduced transport in cultured neurons and in drosophila larvae. gapdh localizes on vesicles via a huntingtin-dependent mechanism and is transported on fast-moving vesicles within axons. purified motile vesicles showed gapdh enzymatic activity and produced atp. finally  we show that vesicular gapdh is necessary and sufficient to provide on-board energy for fast vesicular transport. although detaching gapdh from vesicles reduced transport  targeting gapdh to vesicles was sufficient to promote fat in gapdh deficient neurons. this specifically localized glycolytic machinery may supply constant energy  independent of mitochondria  for the processive movement of vesicles over long distances in axons.
2869,periostin deficiency increases bone damage and impairs injury response to fatigue loading in adult mice,bone damage removal and callus formation in response to fatigue loading are essential to prevent fractures. periostin (postn) is a matricellular protein that mediates adaptive response of cortical bone to loading. whether and how periostin influences damage and the injury response to fatigue remains unknown. we investigated the skeletal response of postn(-/-) and postn(+/+) mice after fatigue stimulus by axial compression of their tibia. in postn(+/+) mice  cracks number and surface (csnb  css) increased 1h after fatigue  with a decrease in strength compared to non-fatigued tibia. at 15 days  csnb had started to decline  while cttv and ctbv increased in fatigued vs non-fatigued tibia  reflecting a woven bone response that was present in 75% of the fatigued bones. cortical porosity and remodelling also prominently increased in the fatigued tibia of postn(+/+) mice. at 30 days  paralleling a continuous removal of cortical damage  strength of the fatigued tibia was similar to the non-fatigue tibia. in postn(-/-) mice  cracks were detectable even in the absence of fatigue  while the amount of collagen crosslinks and tissue hardness was decreased compared to postn(+/+). fatigue significantly increased csnb and css in postn(-/-)  but was not associated with changes in cttv and ctbv  as only 16% of the fatigued bones formed some woven bone. cortical porosity and remodelling did not increase either after fatigue in postn(-/-)  and the level of damage remained high even after 30 days. as a result  strength remained compromised in postn(-/-) mice. contrary to postn(+/+)  which osteocytic lacunae showed a change in the degree of anisotropy (da) after fatigue  postn(-/-) showed no da change. hence periostin appears to influence bone materials properties  damage accumulation and repair  including local modeling/remodeling processes in response to fatigue. these observations suggest that the level of periostin expression could influence the propensity to fatigue fractures.
2871,genomic organisation and transcription characterisation of the gene encoding leishmania (leishmania) amazonensis arginase and its protein structure prediction.,the genomic organisation of the gene encoding leishmania (leishmania) amazonensis arginase as well as its flanking regions were characterised. the size of the transcribed rna was determined  allowing us to map the genomic sites signalling for rna trans-splicing and putative polyadenylation regions. the general organisation was compared with genes encoding other proteins already described in organisms of the trypanosomatid family. the complete nucleotide sequence of the arginase open reading frame was obtained and the three-dimensional structure of the enzyme was inferred by a computational analysis of the deduced amino acid sequence  based on the established crystal structure described for rattus norvergicus arginase. the human liver arginase sequence was analysed in the same way and the comparison of the presumed structure of both the leishmania and human enzymes identified some differences that may be exploited in chemotherapeutic studies.
2873,redefining the genetic hierarchies controlling skeletal myogenesis: pax-3 and myf-5 act upstream of myod,we analyzed pax-3 (splotch)  myf-5 (targeted with nlacz)  and splotch/myf-5 homozygous mutant mice to investigate the roles that these genes play in programming skeletal myogenesis. in splotch and myf-5 homozygous embryos  myogenic progenitor cell perturbations and early muscle defects are distinct. remarkably  splotch/myf-5 double homozygotes have a dramatic phenotype not seen in the individual mutants: body muscles are absent. myod does not rescue this double mutant phenotype since activation of this gene proves to be dependent on either pax-3 or myf-5. therefore  pax-3 and myf-5 define two distinct myogenic pathways  and myod acts genetically downstream of these genes for myogenesis in the body. this genetic hierarchy does not appear to operate for head muscle formation.
2875,nsom/qd-based direct visualization of cd3-induced and cd28-enhanced nanospatial coclustering of tcr and coreceptor in nanodomains in t cell activation,direct molecular imaging of nano-spatial relationship between t cell receptor (tcr)/cd3 and cd4 or cd8 co-receptor before and after activation of a primary t cell has not been reported. we have recently innovated application of near-field scanning optical microscopy (nsom) and immune-labeling quantum dots (qd) to image ag-specific tcr response during in vivo clonal expansion  and now up-graded the nsom/qd-based nanotechnology through dipole-polarization and dual-color imaging. using this imaging system scanning cell-membrane molecules at a best-optical lateral resolution  we demonstrated that cd3  cd4 or cd8 molecules were distinctly distributed as single qd-bound molecules or nano-clusters equivalent to 2-4 qd fluorescence-intensity/size on cell-membrane of un-stimulated primary t cells  and approximately 6-10% of cd3 were co-clustering with cd4 or cd8 as 70-110 nm nano-clusters without forming nano-domains. the ligation of tcr/cd3 on cd4 or cd8 t cells led to cd3 nanoscale co-clustering or interaction with cd4 or cd8 co-receptors forming 200-500 nm nano-domains or >500 nm micro-domains. such nano-spatial co-clustering of cd3 and cd4 or cd3 and cd8 appeared to be an intrinsic event of tcr/cd3 ligation  not purely limited to mhc engagement  and be driven by lck phosphorylation. importantly  cd28 co-stimulation remarkably enhanced tcr/cd3 nanoscale co-clustering or interaction with cd4 co-receptor within nano- or micro-domains on the membrane. in contrast  cd28 co-stimulation did not enhance cd8 clustering or cd3-cd8 co-clustering in nano-domains although it increased molecular number and density of cd3 clustering in the enlarged nano-domains. these nanoscale findings provide new insights into tcr/cd3 interaction with cd4 or cd8 co-receptor in t-cell activation.
2877,tyr26 phosphorylation of pgam1 provides a metabolic advantage to tumours by stabilizing the active conformation,how oncogenic signalling coordinates glycolysis and anabolic biosynthesis in cancer cells remains unclear. we recently reported that the glycolytic enzyme phosphoglycerate mutase 1 (pgam1) regulates anabolic biosynthesis by controlling intracellular levels of its substrate 3-phosphoglycerate and product 2-phosphoglycerate. here we report a novel mechanism in which y26 phosphorylation enhances pgam1 activation through release of inhibitory e19 that blocks the active site  stabilising cofactor 2 3-bisphosphoglycerate binding and h11 phosphorylation. we also report the crystal structure of h11-phosphorylated pgam1 and find that phospho-h11 activates pgam1 at least in part by promoting substrate 3-phosphoglycerate binding. moreover  y26 phosphorylation of pgam1 is common in human cancer cells and contributes to regulation of 3-phosphoglycerate and 2-phosphoglycerate levels  promoting cancer cell proliferation and tumour growth. as pgam1 is a negative transcriptional target of tp53  and is therefore commonly upregulated in human cancers  these findings suggest that y26 phosphorylation represents an additional acute mechanism underlying phosphoglycerate mutase 1 upregulation.
2879,secondary t cell–t cell synaptic interactions drive the differentiation of protective cd8+ t cells,immunization results in the differentiation of cd8+ t cells  such that they acquire effector abilities and convert into a memory pool. priming of t cells takes place via an immunological synapse formed with an antigen-presenting cell (apc). by disrupting synaptic stability at different times  we found that the differentiation of cd8+ t cells required cell interactions beyond those made with apcs. we identified a critical differentiation period that required interactions between primed t cells. we found that t cell–t cell synapses had a major role in the generation of protective cd8+ t cell memory. t cell–t cell synapses allowed t cells to polarize critical secretion of interferon-γ (ifn-γ) toward each other. collective activation and homotypic clustering drove cytokine sharing and acted as regulatory stimuli for t cell differentiation.
2881,apolipoprotein e and atherosclerosis: beyond lipid effect.,in humans  apolipoprotein e (apoe) is a polymorphic multifunctional protein.1 it is coded by three alleles (e2  e3  e4) of a modulator gene (level  variability  and susceptibility gene) at the apoe locus on chromosome 19  determining six apoe genotypes and plasma phenotypes. its pleiotropic effects are exerted on plasma lipoprotein metabolism  coagulation  oxidative processes  macrophage  glial cell and neuronal cell homeostasis  adrenal function  central nervous system physiology  inflammation  and cell proliferation.2 3 apoe polymorphism modulates susceptibility to many diseases. it is  however  particularly notorious for its role in neurodegenerative disorders4 and atherosclerotic arterial disease.5 6 the e4 allele (phenotypes e4/4 and e4/3) that is associated with higher low density lipoprotein cholesterol (ldl-c) is considered proatherogenic  whereas the presence of the e2 allele (e3/2  e2/2)  being associated with lower ldl-c levels  is deemed to have the opposite effect (although it may be associated with increased plasma triglycerides and lipoprotein remnants). this simple equation  however  is an oversimplification because these properties are subject to many environmental and genetic influences. apoe has allele- and gender-dependent effects on reverse cholesterol transport  platelet aggregation  and oxidative processes that are likely to affect the overall atherogenic potential ascribed to modulation of lipoprotein metabolism.2 3 6 notwithstanding the context dependency  a recent meta-analysis fully supports the presence of the e4 allele as a significant risk factor for coronary artery disease.7 several mechanisms have been evoked to link apoe with atherosclerosis  but the relationship is not fully unraveled in humans. nevertheless  some apoe mimetic peptides that promote ldl clearance are currently tested in animals for potential clinical applications.8 9  see page 436   the situation is relatively simpler in animals. the mouse model has been prominently useful to test mechanisms …
2883,mental health conditions among patients seeking and undergoing bariatric surgery: a meta-analysis.,importance bariatric surgery is associated with sustained weight loss and improved physical health status for severely obese individuals. mental health conditions may be common among patients seeking bariatric surgery; however  the prevalence of these conditions and whether they are associated with postoperative outcomes remains unknown. objective to determine the prevalence of mental health conditions among bariatric surgery candidates and recipients  to evaluate the association between preoperative mental health conditions and health outcomes following bariatric surgery  and to evaluate the association between surgery and the clinical course of mental health conditions. data sources we searched pubmed  medline on ovid  and psycinfo for studies published between january 1988 and november 2015. study quality was assessed using an adapted tool for risk of bias; quality of evidence was rated based on grade (grading of recommendations assessment  development and evaluation) criteria. findings we identified 68 publications meeting inclusion criteria: 59 reporting the prevalence of preoperative mental health conditions (65 363 patients) and 27 reporting associations between preoperative mental health conditions and postoperative outcomes (50 182 patients). among patients seeking and undergoing bariatric surgery  the most common mental health conditions  based on random-effects estimates of prevalence  were depression (19% [95% ci  14%-25%]) and binge eating disorder (17% [95% ci  13%-21%]). there was conflicting evidence regarding the association between preoperative mental health conditions and postoperative weight loss. neither depression nor binge eating disorder was consistently associated with differences in weight outcomes. bariatric surgery was  however  consistently associated with postoperative decreases in the prevalence of depression (7 studies; 8%-74% decrease) and the severity of depressive symptoms (6 studies; 40%-70% decrease). conclusions and relevance mental health conditions are common among bariatric surgery patients-in particular  depression and binge eating disorder. there is inconsistent evidence regarding the association between preoperative mental health conditions and postoperative weight loss. moderate-quality evidence supports an association between bariatric surgery and lower rates of depression postoperatively.
2885,activator control of nucleosome occupancy in activation and repression of transcription,the relationship between chromatin structure and gene expression is a subject of intense study. the universal transcriptional activator gal4 removes promoter nucleosomes as it triggers transcription  but how it does so has remained obscure. the reverse process  repression of transcription  has often been correlated with the presence of nucleosomes. but it is not known whether nucleosomes are required for that effect. a new quantitative assay describes  for any given location  the fraction of dna molecules in the population that bears a nucleosome at any given instant. this allows us to follow the time courses of nucleosome removal and reformation  in wild-type and mutant cells  upon activation (by galactose) and repression (by glucose) of the gal genes of yeast. we show that upon being freed of its inhibitor gal80 by the action of galactose  gal4 quickly recruits swi/snf to the genes  and that nucleosome "remodeler" rapidly removes promoter nucleosomes. in the absence of swi/snf  gal4's action also results in nucleosome removal and the activation of transcription  but both processes are significantly delayed. addition of glucose to cells growing in galactose represses transcription. but if galactose remains present  gal4 continues to work  recruiting swi/snf and maintaining the promoter nucleosome-free despite it being repressed. this requirement for galactose is obviated in a mutant in which gal4 works constitutively. these results show how an activator's recruiting function can control chromatin structure both during gene activation and repression. thus  both under activating and repressing conditions  the activator can recruit an enzymatic machine that removes promoter nucleosomes. our results show that whereas promoter nucleosome removal invariably accompanies activation  reformation of nucleosomes is not required for repression. the finding that there are two routes to nucleosome removal and activation of transcription-one that requires the action of swi/snf recruited by the activator  and a slower one that does not-clarifies our understanding of the early events of gene activation  and in particular corrects earlier reports that swi/snf plays no role in gal gene induction. our finding that chromatin structure is irrelevant for repression as studied here-that is  repression sets in as efficiently whether or not promoter nucleosomes are allowed to reform-contradicts the widely held  but little tested  idea that nucleosomes are required for repression. these findings were made possible by our nucleosome occupancy assay. the assay  we believe  will prove useful in studying other outstanding issues in the field.
2887,critical role of the virus-encoded microrna-155 ortholog in the induction of marek's disease lymphomas,notwithstanding the well-characterised roles of a number of oncogenes in neoplastic transformation  micrornas (mirnas) are increasingly implicated in several human cancers. discovery of mirnas in several oncogenic herpesviruses such as kshv has further highlighted the potential of virus-encoded mirnas to contribute to their oncogenic capabilities. nevertheless  despite the identification of several possible cancer-related genes as their targets  the direct in vivo role of virus-encoded mirnas in neoplastic diseases such as those induced by kshv is difficult to demonstrate in the absence of suitable models. however  excellent natural disease models of rapid-onset marek's disease (md) lymphomas in chickens allow examination of the oncogenic potential of virus-encoded mirnas. using viruses modified by reverse genetics of the infectious bac clone of the oncogenic rb-1b strain of mdv  we show that the deletion of the six-mirna cluster 1 from the viral genome abolished the oncogenicity of the virus. this loss of oncogenicity appeared to be primarily due to the single mirna within the cluster  mir-m4  the ortholog of cellular mir-155  since its deletion or a 2-nucleotide mutation within its seed region was sufficient to inhibit the induction of lymphomas. the definitive role of this mir-155 ortholog in oncogenicity was further confirmed by the rescue of oncogenic phenotype by revertant viruses that expressed either the mir-m4 or the cellular homolog gga-mir-155. this is the first demonstration of the direct in vivo role of a virus-encoded mirna in inducing tumors in a natural infection model. furthermore  the use of viruses deleted in mirnas as effective vaccines against virulent mdv challenge  enables the prospects of generating genetically defined attenuated vaccines.
2889,downregulation of tap1 in b lymphocytes by cellular and epstein-barr virus-encoded interleukin-10.,virally infected cells degrade intracellular viral proteins proteolytically and present the resulting peptides in association with major histocompatibility complex (mhc) class i molecules to cd8+ cytotoxic t lymphocytes (ctls). these cells are normally prone to ctl-mediated elimination. however  several viruses have evolved strategies to avoid detection by the immune system that interfere with the pathway of antigen presentation. epstein-barr virus (ebv) expresses a predominantly late protein  the bcrf1 gene product vil-10  that is similar in sequence to the human interleukin-10 (hil-10). we show here that vil-10 affects the expression of one of the two transporter proteins (taps) associated with antigen presentation. similarly  hil-10 showed the same activity. expression of the lmp2 and tap1 genes but not expression of tap2 or lmp7 is efficiently downregulated  indicating a specific il-10 effect on the two divergently transcribed tap1 and lmp2 genes. downregulation of tap1 by il-10 hampers the transport of peptide antigens into the endoplasmatic reticulum  as shown in the tap-specific peptide transporter assay  their loading onto empty mhc i molecules  and the subsequent translocation to the cell surface. as a consequence  il-10 causes a general reduction of surface mhc i molecules on b lymphocytes that might also affect the recognition of ebv-infected cells by cytotoxic t cells.
2891,the epithelial-mesenchymal transition generates cells with properties of stem cells,the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (emt) is a key developmental program that is often activated during cancer invasion and metastasis. we here report that the induction of an emt in immortalized human mammary epithelial cells (hmles) results in the acquisition of mesenchymal traits and in the expression of stem-cell markers. furthermore  we show that those cells have an increased ability to form mammospheres  a property associated with mammary epithelial stem cells. independent of this  stem cell-like cells isolated from hmle cultures form mammospheres and express markers similar to those of hmles that have undergone an emt. moreover  stem-like cells isolated either from mouse or human mammary glands or mammary carcinomas express emt markers. finally  transformed human mammary epithelial cells that have undergone an emt form mammospheres  soft agar colonies  and tumors more efficiently. these findings illustrate a direct link between the emt and the gain of epithelial stem cell properties.
2893,suppression of myc oncogenic activity by ribosomal protein haploinsufficiency,the myc oncogene regulates the expression of several components of the protein synthetic machinery  including ribosomal proteins  initiation factors of translation  rna polymerase iii and ribosomal dna. whether and how increasing the cellular protein synthesis capacity affects the multistep process leading to cancer remains to be addressed. here we use ribosomal protein heterozygote mice as a genetic tool to restore increased protein synthesis in emu-myc/+ transgenic mice to normal levels  and show that the oncogenic potential of myc in this context is suppressed. our findings demonstrate that the ability of myc to increase protein synthesis directly augments cell size and is sufficient to accelerate cell cycle progression independently of known cell cycle targets transcriptionally regulated by myc. in addition  when protein synthesis is restored to normal levels  myc-overexpressing precancerous cells are more efficiently eliminated by programmed cell death. our findings reveal a new mechanism that links increases in general protein synthesis rates downstream of an oncogenic signal to a specific molecular impairment in the modality of translation initiation used to regulate the expression of selective messenger rnas. we show that an aberrant increase in cap-dependent translation downstream of myc hyperactivation specifically impairs the translational switch to internal ribosomal entry site (ires)-dependent translation that is required for accurate mitotic progression. failure of this translational switch results in reduced mitotic-specific expression of the endogenous ires-dependent form of cdk11 (also known as cdc2l and pitslre)  which leads to cytokinesis defects and is associated with increased centrosome numbers and genome instability in emu-myc/+ mice. when accurate translational control is re-established in emu-myc/+ mice  genome instability is suppressed. our findings demonstrate how perturbations in translational control provide a highly specific outcome for gene expression  genome stability and cancer initiation that have important implications for understanding the molecular mechanism of cancer formation at the post-genomic level.
2895,sympathetic baroreflex gain in normotensive pregnant women.,muscle sympathetic nerve activity is increased during normotensive pregnancy while mean arterial pressure is maintained or reduced  suggesting baroreflex resetting. we hypothesized spontaneous sympathetic baroreflex gain would be reduced in normotensive pregnant women relative to nonpregnant matched controls. integrated muscle sympathetic burst incidence and total sympathetic activity (microneurography)  blood pressure (finometer)  and r-r interval (ecg) were assessed at rest in 11 pregnant women (33 ± 1 wk gestation  31 ± 1 yr  prepregnancy bmi: 23.5 ± 0.9 kg/m(2)) and 11 nonpregnant controls (29 ± 1 yr; bmi: 25.2 ± 1.7 kg/m(2)). pregnant women had elevated baseline sympathetic burst incidence (43 ± 2 vs. 33 ± 2 bursts/100 heart beats  p = 0.01) and total sympathetic activity (1 811 ± 148 vs. 1 140 ± 55 au  p < 0.01) relative to controls. both mean (88 ± 3 vs. 91 ± 2 mmhg  p = 0.4) and diastolic (dbp) (72 ± 3 vs. 73 ± 2 mmhg  p = 0.7) pressures were similar between pregnant and nonpregnant women  respectively  indicating an upward resetting of the baroreflex set point with pregnancy. baroreflex gain  calculated as the linear relationship between sympathetic burst incidence and dbp  was reduced in pregnant women relative to controls (-3.7 ± 0.5 vs. -5.4 ± 0.5 bursts·100 heart beats(-1)·mmhg(-1)  p = 0.03)  as was baroreflex gain calculated with total sympathetic activity (-294 ± 24 vs. -210 ± 24 au·100 heart beats(-1)·mmhg(-1); p = 0.03). cardiovagal baroreflex gain (sequence method) was not different between nonpregnant controls and pregnant women (49 ± 8 vs. 36 ± 8 ms/mmhg; p = 0.2). however  sympathetic (burst incidence) and cardiovagal gains were negatively correlated in pregnant women (r = -0.7; p = 0.02). together  these data indicate that the influence of the sympathetic nervous system over arterial blood pressure is reduced in normotensive pregnancy  in terms of both long-term and beat-to-beat regulation of arterial pressure  likely through a baroreceptor-dependent mechanism.
2897,fibrillar collagen inhibits arterial smooth muscle proliferation through regulation of cdk2 inhibitors,arterial smooth muscle cells (smcs) are arrested in the g1 phase of the cell cycle on polymerized type i collagen fibrils  while monomer collagen supports smc proliferation. cyclin e-associated kinase and cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (cdk2) phosphorylation are inhibited on polymerized collagen  and levels of the cdk2 inhibitors p27kip1 and p21cip1/waf1 are increased compared with smcs on monomer collagen. p27kip1 associates with the cyclin e-cdk2-p21cip1/waf1 complex in smcs on polymerized collagen. monovalent blocking antibodies to alpha2 integrins  integrins that mediate adhesion to both forms of collagen  mimic these effects on monomer collagen. furthermore  polymerized collagen rapidly suppresses p70 s6 kinase  a possible regulator of p27kip1. thus  fibrillar collagen specifically regulates early integrin signaling that may lead to up-regulation of cdk2 inhibitors and inhibition of smc proliferation.
2899,direct upregulation of stat3 by microrna-551b-3p deregulates growth and metastasis of ovarian cancer.,3q26.2 amplification in high-grade serous ovarian cancer leads to increased expression of mature microrna mir551b-3p  which is associated with poor clinical outcome. importantly  mir551b-3p contributes to resistance to apoptosis and increased survival and proliferation of cancer cells in vitro and in vivo. mir551b-3p upregulates stat3 protein levels  and stat3 is required for the effects of mir551b-3p on cell proliferation. rather than decreasing levels of target mrna as expected  we demonstrate that mir551b-3p binds a complementary sequence on the stat3 promoter  recruiting rna polymerase ii and the twist1 transcription factor to activate stat3 transcription  and thus directly upregulates stat3 expression. furthermore  anti-mir551b reduced stat3 expression in ovarian cancer cells in vitro and in vivo and reduced ovarian cancer growth in vivo. together  our data demonstrate a role for mir551b-3p in transcriptional activation. thus  mir551b-3p represents a promising candidate biomarker and therapeutic target in ovarian cancer.
2901,a fine-scale map of recombination rates and hotspots across the human genome.,genetic maps  which document the way in which recombination rates vary over a genome  are an essential tool for many genetic analyses. we present a high-resolution genetic map of the human genome  based on statistical analyses of genetic variation data  and identify more than 25 000 recombination hotspots  together with motifs and sequence contexts that play a role in hotspot activity. differences between the behavior of recombination rates over large (megabase) and small (kilobase) scales lead us to suggest a two-stage model for recombination in which hotspots are stochastic features  within a framework in which large-scale rates are constrained.
2903,calcium: regulation of cell death: the calcium–apoptosis link,to live or to die? this crucial question eloquently reflects the dual role of ca2+ in living organisms – survival factor or ruthless killer. it has long been known that ca2+ signals govern a host of vital cell functions and so are necessary for cell survival. however  more recently it has become clear that cellular ca2+ overload  or perturbation of intracellular ca2+ compartmentalization  can cause cytotoxicity and trigger either apoptotic or necrotic cell death.
2905,interferon-gamma at the crossroads of tumor immune surveillance or evasion,interferon-gamma (ifn-γ) is a pleiotropic molecule with associated antiproliferative  pro-apoptotic and antitumor mechanisms. this effector cytokine  often considered as a major effector of immunity  has been used in the treatment of several diseases  despite its adverse effects. although broad evidence implicating ifn-γ in tumor immune surveillance  ifn-γ-based therapies undergoing clinical trials have been of limited success. in fact  recent reports suggested that it may also play a protumorigenic role  namely  through ifn-γ signaling insensitivity  downregulation of major histocompatibility complexes  and upregulation of indoleamine 2 3-dioxygenase and of checkpoint inhibitors  as programmed cell-death ligand 1. however  the ifn-γ-mediated responses are still positively associated with patient's survival in several cancers. consequently  major research efforts are required to understand the immune contexture in which ifn-γ induces its intricate and highly regulated effects in the tumor microenvironment. this review discusses the current knowledge on the pro- and antitumorigenic effects of ifn-γ as part of the complex immune response to cancer  highlighting the relevance to identify ifn-γ responsive patients for the improvement of therapies that exploit associated signaling pathways.
2907,nucleation of nuclear bodies by rna,the biogenesis of the many functional compartments contained in the mammalian cell nucleus is poorly understood. more specifically  little is known regarding the initial nucleation step required for nuclear body formation. here we show that rna can function as a structural element and a nucleator of nuclear bodies. we find that several types of coding and noncoding rnas are sufficient to de novo assemble  and are physiologically enriched in  histone locus bodies (with associated cajal bodies)  nuclear speckles  paraspeckles and nuclear stress bodies. formation of nuclear bodies occurs through recruitment and accumulation of proteins resident in the nuclear bodies by nucleating rna. these results demonstrate that transcription is a driving force in nuclear body formation and rna transcripts can function as a scaffold in the formation of major nuclear bodies. together  these data suggest that rna-primed biogenesis of nuclear bodies is a general principle of nuclear organization.
2909,breaking the chains: structure and function of the deubiquitinases,ubiquitylation is a reversible protein modification that is implicated in many cellular functions. recently  much progress has been made in the characterization of a superfamily of isopeptidases that remove ubiquitin: the deubiquitinases (dubs; also known as deubiquitylating or deubiquitinating enzymes). far from being uniform in structure and function  these enzymes display a myriad of distinct mechanistic features. the small number (<100) of dubs might at first suggest a low degree of selectivity; however  dubs are subject to multiple layers of regulation that modulate both their activity and their specificity. due to their wide-ranging involvement in key regulatory processes  these enzymes might provide new therapeutic targets.
2911,internal fixation versus nonoperative treatment of displaced 3-part proximal humeral fractures in elderly patients: a randomized controlled trial.,background the aim of the study was to report the 2-year outcome after a displaced 3-part fracture of the proximal humerus in elderly patients randomized to treatment with a locking plate or nonoperative treatment. patients and methods we included 60 patients  mean age 74 years (range  56-92)  81% being women. the main outcome measures were the constant and disabilities of the arm  shoulder and hand (dash) scores and the health-related quality of life (hrqol) according to the eq-5d. results at the final 2-year follow-up  the results for range of motion (rom)  function and hrqol were all in favor of the locking plate group. the mean flexion in the locking plate group was 120° compared to 111° in the nonoperative group (p = .36) and the mean abduction was 114° compared to 106° (p = .28). the corresponding values for the constant score were 61 versus 58 (p = .64)  for dash 26 versus 35 (p = .19)  and the mean eq-5d (index) score was 0.70 compared to 0.59 (p = .26). in spite of good primary reduction in 86% of the fractures in the locking plate group  13% of the patients had a fracture complication requiring a major reoperation and 17% had a minor reoperation. conclusion the results of our study indicate an advantage in functional outcome and hrqol in favor of the locking plate compared to nonoperative treatment in elderly patients with a displaced 3-part fracture of the proximal humerus  but at the cost of additional surgery in 30% of the patients.
2913,pericytes of human skeletal muscle are myogenic precursors distinct from satellite cells,cells derived from blood vessels of human skeletal muscle can regenerate skeletal muscle  similarly to embryonic mesoangioblasts. however  adult cells do not express endothelial markers  but instead express markers of pericytes  such as ng2 proteoglycan and alkaline phosphatase (alp)  and can be prospectively isolated from freshly dissociated alp+ cells. unlike canonical myogenic precursors (satellite cells)  pericyte-derived cells express myogenic markers only in differentiated myotubes  which they form spontaneously with high efficiency. when transplanted into severe combined immune deficient–x-linked  mouse muscular dystrophy (scid–mdx) mice  pericyte-derived cells colonize host muscle and generate numerous fibres expressing human dystrophin. similar cells isolated from duchenne patients  and engineered to express human mini-dystrophin  also give rise to many dystrophin-positive fibres in vivo. these data show that myogenic precursors  distinct from satellite cells  are associated with microvascular walls in the human skeletal muscle  may represent a correlate of embryonic 'mesoangioblasts' present after birth and may be a promising candidate for future cell-therapy protocols in patients.
2915,ucp1-independent signaling involving serca2b-mediated calcium cycling regulates beige fat thermogenesis and systemic glucose homeostasis,uncoupling protein 1 (ucp1) plays a central role in nonshivering thermogenesis in brown fat; however  its role in beige fat remains unclear. here we report a robust ucp1-independent thermogenic mechanism in beige fat that involves enhanced atp-dependent ca2+ cycling by sarco/endoplasmic reticulum ca2+-atpase 2b (serca2b) and ryanodine receptor 2 (ryr2). inhibition of serca2b impairs ucp1-independent beige fat thermogenesis in humans and mice as well as in pigs  a species that lacks a functional ucp1 protein. conversely  enhanced ca2+ cycling by activation of α1- and/or β3-adrenergic receptors or the serca2b-ryr2 pathway stimulates ucp1-independent thermogenesis in beige adipocytes. in the absence of ucp1  beige fat dynamically expends glucose through enhanced glycolysis  tricarboxylic acid metabolism and pyruvate dehydrogenase activity for atp-dependent thermogenesis through the serca2b pathway; beige fat thereby functions as a 'glucose sink' and improves glucose tolerance independently of body weight loss. our study uncovers a noncanonical thermogenic mechanism through which beige fat controls whole-body energy homeostasis via ca2+ cycling.
2917,folic acid supplementation and dietary folate intake  and risk of preeclampsia,background/objectives:folic acid supplementation has been suggested to reduce the risk of preeclampsia. however  results from few epidemiologic studies have been inconclusive. we investigated the hypothesis that folic acid supplementation and dietary folate intake before conception and during pregnancy reduce the risk of preeclampsia. subjects/methods:a birth cohort study was conducted in 2010–2012 at the gansu provincial maternity & child care hospital in lanzhou  china. a total of 10 041 pregnant women without chronic hypertension or gestational hypertension were enrolled. results:compared with nonusers  folic acid supplement users had a reduced risk of preeclampsia (or=0.61  95% ci: 0.43–0.87). a significant dose–response of duration of use was observed among women who used folic acid supplemention during pregnancy only (p-trend=0.007). the reduced risk associated with folic acid supplement was similar for mild or severe preeclampsia and for early- or late-onset preeclampsia  although the statistical significant associations were only observed for mild (or=0.50  95% ci: 0.30–0.81) and late-onset (or=0.60  95% ci: 0.42–0.86) preeclampsia. the reduced risk associated with dietary folate intake during pregnancy was only seen for severe preeclampsia (or=0.52  95% ci: 0.31–0.87  for the highest quartile of dietary folate intake compared with the lowest).conclusions:our study results suggest that folic acid supplementation and higher dietary folate intake during pregnancy reduce the risk of preeclampsia. future studies are needed to confirm the associations.
2919,familial obesity and leanness.,using the princeton school district family study cohort  our specific aim was to estimate the prevalence of suspected familial ponderosity and leanness  to provide empirical risk estimates for the proportion of probands' first-degree relatives who were similarly affected  and to estimate the contributions of diseases  drugs and caloric intake to relative obesity and leanness. we studied 379 probands  125 whites and 52 blacks from a random recall group  147 whites and 55 blacks from a hyperlipidemic recall group. suspected familial obesity and leanness were arbitrarily identified in those kindreds with at least two first-degree relatives in the same quetelet index decile as the proband  top or bottom respectively. suspected familial obesity was observed in 2.4 percent and 6 percent respectively of random and hyperlipidemic recall group whites. suspected familial leanness was identified in 2.4 percent and 1.4 percent of random and hyperlipidemic recall whites and in 3.8 percent of randomly recalled blacks. approximately twice as many as expected white first-degree relatives of top quetelet index decile probands themselves had top decile quetelet indices; approximately three times as many as expected first-degree relatives of bottom decile quetelet index probands themselves had bottom decile quetelet indices. nineteen percent and 31 percent of top decile quetelet index white probands from random and hyperlipidemic recall groups came from families where at least two other first-degree relatives were similarly obese; 18 percent and 20 percent of white random and hyperlipidemic recall group probands with bottom decile quetelet indices had suspected familial leanness. nearly all subjects with familial obesity or leanness had no overt metabolic or pharmacological explanations for their body habitus. within-family clustering of hypertension was common in kindreds with suspected familial obesity and was absent in kindreds with suspected familial leanness. marked within-family clustering of both obesity and leanness is useful diagnostically; therapeutic intervention to reduce obesity  to be most effective  should be family-wide in the many kindreds which share familial obesity.
2921,structural basis of allosteric and synergistic activation of ampk by furan-2-phosphonic derivative c2 binding.,the metabolic stress-sensing enzyme amp-activated protein kinase (ampk) is responsible for regulating metabolism in response to energy supply and demand. drugs that activate ampk may be useful in the treatment of metabolic diseases including type 2 diabetes. we have determined the crystal structure of ampk in complex with its activator 5-(5-hydroxyl-isoxazol-3-yl)-furan-2-phosphonic acid (c2)  revealing two c2-binding sites in the γ-subunit distinct from nucleotide sites. c2 acts synergistically with the drug a769662 to activate ampk α1-containing complexes independent of upstream kinases. our results show that dual drug therapies could be effective ampk-targeting strategies to treat metabolic diseases.
2923,seroepidemiologic survey of captive old-world primates for antibodies to human and simian retroviruses  and isolation of a lentivirus from sooty mangabeys (cercocebus atys).,sera from 526 old-world monkeys and apes  representing 50 species and 20 genera and living in us zoos and vivaria  were screened for antibodies to htlv-i  htlv-iii/lav  and simian-aids retrovirus  type i (srv-i). sera were screened initially by elisa  and elisa-positive sera  as well as elisa-negative sera from cage contacts  were further tested by western blotting. a large number of false-positive and a small number of false-negative elisa sera were identified. although most true positive reactions were directed to a single retrovirus  a number of individuals from 4 species were positive for more than one retrovirus. specific seroreactivity to htlv-i was found in 39/526 (7%) animals of 15 species. true positive reactions to srv-i were found in 21/516 (4%) animals  including talapoins and 2 species of macaques. specific serologic reactions to htlv-iii/lav were detected in 23/526 (4%) monkeys. many of the htlv-iii/lav seropositive animals were from one mixed-species zoo exhibit  containing sooty mangabeys  mandrills  kolb's guenons  and talapoins. a type d virus was isolated from the blood of 3/10 srv-i antibody-positive tonkeana macaques  but from none of 11 seropositive talapoins. a lentivirus was isolated from the blood of 4/7 htlv-iii/lav seropositive sooty mangabeys  but not from seropositive talapoins in the same exhibit or from 2 seropositive colobus from another zoo. the sooty mangabey lentivirus produced generalized lymphadenopathy  leukopenia  and decreased levels of t4 lymphocytes in 2 experimentally infected rhesus macaques.
2925,p16ink4a is a robust in vivo biomarker of cellular aging in human skin.,the cell-cycle regulating gene  p16ink4a  encoding an inhibitor of cyclin-dependent kinases 4 and 6  is considered to play an important role in cellular aging and in premature senescence. although there is an age-dependent increase of p16ink4a expression in human fibroblast senescence in vitro  no data are available regarding the age dependency of p16ink4a in vivo. to determine whether p16ink4a expression in human skin correlates with donor age  p16ink4a expression was analyzed by immunohistochemistry as well as the expression of the p16ink4a repressor bmi1. samples from the age groups 0-20  21-70  and 71-95 years were selected from a bank of healthy human skin. we show that the number of p16ink4a positive cells is significantly higher in elderly individuals compared to the younger age groups. the number of p16ink4a positive cells was found to be increased in both epidermis and dermis  compartments with strictly different proliferative activities. bmi1 gene expression was significantly down-regulated with increasing donor age  whereas no striking age differences were observed for ki67. in immunofluorescence co-expression studies  ki67-positive cells were negative for p16ink4a and bmi1-expressing cells also stained negatively for ki67. in conclusion  we provide for the first time evidence that p16ink4a expression directly correlates with chronological aging of human skin in vivo. p16ink4a therefore is a biomarker for human aging in vivo. the data reported here suggest a model for changes in regulatory gene expression that drive aging in human skin.
2927,functional proteomics identifies mirnas to target a p27/myc/phospho-rb signature in breast and ovarian cancer,the myc oncogene is overexpressed in almost half of all breast and ovarian cancers  but attempts at therapeutic interventions against myc have proven to be challenging. myc regulates multiple biological processes  including the cell cycle  and as such is associated with cell proliferation and tumor progression. we identified a protein signature of high myc  low p27 and high phospho-rb significantly correlated with poor patient survival in breast and ovarian cancers. screening of a mirna library by functional proteomics in multiple cell lines and integration of data from patient tumors revealed a panel of five micrornas (mirnas) (mir-124  mir-365  mir-34b*  mir-18a and mir-506) as potential tumor suppressors capable of reversing the p27/myc/phospho-rb protein signature. mechanistic studies revealed an rna-activation function of mir-124 resulting in direct induction of p27 protein levels by binding to and inducing transcription on the p27 promoter region leading to a subsequent g1 arrest. additionally  in vivo studies utilizing a xenograft model demonstrated that nanoparticle-mediated delivery of mir-124 could reduce tumor growth and sensitize cells to etoposide  suggesting a clinical application of mirnas as therapeutics to target the functional effect of myc on tumor growth.
2929,tex10 coordinates epigenetic control of super-enhancer activity in pluripotency and reprogramming.,super-enhancers (ses) are large clusters of transcriptional enhancers that are co-occupied by multiple lineage-specific transcription factors driving expression of genes that define cell identity. in embryonic stem cells (escs)  ses are highly enriched for the core pluripotency factors oct4  sox2  and nanog. in this study  we sought to dissect the molecular control mechanism of se activity in pluripotency and reprogramming. starting from a protein interaction network surrounding sox2  we identified tex10 as a key pluripotency factor that plays a functionally significant role in esc self-renewal  early embryo development  and reprogramming. tex10 is enriched at ses in a sox2-dependent manner and coordinates histone acetylation and dna demethylation at ses. tex10 activity is also important for pluripotency and reprogramming in human cells. our study therefore highlights tex10 as a core component of the pluripotency network and sheds light on its role in epigenetic control of se activity for cell fate determination.
2931,bisphosphonates in oncology: rising stars or fallen heroes.,the introduction of bisphosphonates in oncology has dramatically changed the management of patients with metastatic bone disease. in this manuscript  we thoroughly scrutinize the available body of clinical trials supporting the use of bisphosphonates in this setting and review new and ongoing research. additionally  we summarize the data showing the benefits of bisphosphonate use in the prevention of treatment-induced bone loss and the intriguing emerging evidence on the antitumor potential of some of these agents when used in the adjuvant setting. finally  we address the need for a careful consideration of potential benefits of bisphosphonate therapy and the risk for osteonecrosis of the jaw  a recently recognized late-toxicity of their use.
2933,imaging techniques for assaying lymphocyte activation in action,imaging techniques have greatly improved our understanding of lymphocyte activation. technical advances in spatial and temporal resolution and new labelling tools have enabled researchers to directly observe the activation process. consequently  research using imaging approaches to study lymphocyte activation has expanded  providing an unprecedented level of cellular and molecular detail in the field. as a result  certain models of lymphocyte activation have been verified  others have been revised and yet others have been replaced with new concepts. in this article  we review the current imaging techniques that are used to assess lymphocyte activation in different contexts  from whole animals to single molecules  and discuss the advantages and potential limitations of these methods.
2935,hospital and 1-year survival of patients admitted to intensive care units with acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.,objective to describe outcomes and identify variables associated with hospital and 1-year survival for patients admitted to an intensive care unit (icu) with an acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd). design prospective  multicenter  inception cohort study. setting forty-two icus at 40 us hospitals. patients a total of 362 admissions for copd exacerbation selected from the acute physiology and chronic health evaluation (apache) iii database of 17 440 icu admissions. measurements and results hospital mortality for the 362 admissions was 24%. for the 167 patients aged 65 years or older  mortality was 30% at hospital discharge  41% at 90 days  47% at 180 days  and 59% at 1 year. median survival for all patients was 224 days  and median survival for the patients who died within 1 year was 30.5 days. on multiple regression analysis  variables associated with hospital mortality included age  severity of respiratory and nonrespiratory organ system dysfunction  and hospital length of stay before icu admission. development of nonrespiratory organ system dysfunction was the major predictor of hospital mortality (60% of total explanatory power) and 180-day outcomes (54% of explanatory power). respiratory physiological variables (respiratory rate  serum ph  paco2  pao2  and alveolar-arterial difference in partial pressure of oxygen [pao2-pao2]) indicative of advanced dysfunction were more strongly associated with 180-day mortality rates (22% of explanatory power) than hospital death rates (4% of explanatory power). after controlling for severity of illness  mechanical ventilation at icu admission was not associated with either hospital mortality or subsequent survival. conclusions patients with copd admitted to an icu for an acute exacerbation have a substantial hospital mortality (24%). for patients aged 65 years or older  mortality doubles in 1 year from 30% to 59%. hospital and longer-term mortality is closely associated with development of nonrespiratory organ system dysfunction; severity of the underlying respiratory function substantially influences mortality following hospital discharge. the need for mechanical ventilation at icu admission did not influence either short- or long-term outcomes. physicians should be aware of these relationships when making treatment decisions or evaluating new therapies.
2937,opening of compacted chromatin by early developmental transcription factors hnf3 (foxa) and gata-4.,the transcription factors hnf3 (foxa) and gata-4 are the earliest known to bind the albumin gene enhancer in liver precursor cells in embryos. to understand how they access sites in silent chromatin  we assembled nucleosome arrays containing albumin enhancer sequences and compacted them with linker histone. hnf3 and gata-4  but not nf-1  c/ebp  and gal4-ah  bound their sites in compacted chromatin and opened the local nucleosomal domain in the absence of atp-dependent enzymes. the ability of hnf3 to open chromatin is mediated by a high affinity dna binding site and by the c-terminal domain of the protein  which binds histones h3 and h4. thus  factors that potentiate transcription in development are inherently capable of initiating chromatin opening events.
2939,mutation of the fumarase gene in two siblings with progressive encephalopathy and fumarase deficiency.,we report an inborn error of the tricarboxylic acid cycle  fumarase deficiency  in two siblings born to first cousin parents. they presented with progressive encephalopathy  dystonia  leucopenia  and neutropenia. elevation of lactate in the cerebrospinal fluid and high fumarate excretion in the urine led us to investigate the activities of the respiratory chain and of the krebs cycle  and to finally identify fumarase deficiency in these two children. the deficiency was profound and present in all tissues investigated  affecting the cytosolic and the mitochondrial fumarase isoenzymes to the same degree. analysis of fumarase cdna demonstrated that both patients were homozygous for a missense mutation  a g-955-->c transversion  predicting a glu-319-->gln substitution. this substitution occurred in a highly conserved region of the fumarase cdna. both parents exhibited half the expected fumarase activity in their lymphocytes and were found to be heterozygous for this substitution. the present study is to our knowledge the first molecular characterization of tricarboxylic acid deficiency  a rare inherited inborn error of metabolism in childhood.
2941,a common missense variant in nudt15 confers susceptibility to thiopurine-induced leukopenia,thiopurine therapy  commonly used in autoimmune conditions  can be complicated by life-threatening leukopenia. this leukopenia is associated with genetic variation in tpmt (encoding thiopurine s-methyltransferase). despite a lower frequency of tpmt mutations in asians  the incidence of thiopurine-induced leukopenia is higher in asians than in individuals of european descent. here we performed an immunochip-based 2-stage association study in 978 korean subjects with crohn's disease treated with thiopurines. we identified a nonsynonymous snp in nudt15 (encoding p. arg139cys) that was strongly associated with thiopurine-induced early leukopenia (odds ratio (or) = 35.6; pcombined = 4.88 × 10−94). in koreans  this variant demonstrated sensitivity and specificity of 89.4% and 93.2%  respectively  for thiopurine-induced early leukopenia (in comparison to 12.1% and 97.6% for tpmt variants). although rare  this snp was also strongly associated with thiopurine-induced leukopenia in subjects with inflammatory bowel disease of european descent (or = 9.50; p = 4.64 × 10−4). thus  nudt15 is a pharmacogenetic determinant for thiopurine-induced leukopenia in diverse populations.
2943,reconstitution of the immune system after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in humans,hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is associated with a severe immune deficiency. as a result  the patient is at high risk of infections. innate immunity  including epithelial barriers  monocytes  granulocytes  and nk cells recovers within weeks after transplantation. by contrast  adaptive immunity recovers much slower. b- and t-cell counts normalize during the first months after transplantation  but in particular  t-cell immunity may remain impaired for years. during the last decade  much of the underlying mechanisms have been identified. these insights may provide new therapies to accelerate recovery.
2945,cyclin-dependent kinase 2 is essential for meiosis but not for mitotic cell division in mice,we targeted the locus encoding the cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (cdk2) by homologous recombination in mouse embryonic stem (es) cells. embryonic fibroblasts lacking cdk2 proliferate normally and become immortal after continuous passage in culture. elimination of a conditional cdk2 allele in immortal cells does not have a significant effect on proliferation. cdk2−/− mice are viable and survive for up to two years  indicating that cdk2 is also dispensable for proliferation and survival of most cell types. but cdk2 is essential for completion of prophase i during meiotic cell division in male and female germ cells  an unforeseen role for this cell cycle kinase.
2947,surgical therapy for dystonia.,surgical treatments for dystonia have been available since the early 20th century  but have improved in their efficacy to adversity ratio through a combination of technologic advances and better understanding of the role of the basal ganglia in dystonia. the word "dystonia" describes a phenotype of involuntary movement that may manifest from a variety of conditions. dystonia may affect only certain regions of the body or may be generalized. it appears to be critical to determine whether the etiology underlying the dystonia is "primary" (ie  occurring from a genetic or idiopathic origin) or "secondary" (ie  occurring as a result of structural  metabolic  or neurodegenerative disorders). secondary dystonias are far more common than primary dystonias. primary dystonias respond well to pallidotomy or deep brain stimulation of the internal segment of the globus pallidum  whereas secondary dystonias appear to respond partially at best. limited historic and current data suggest that the thalamus may be a promising target for the treatment of secondary dystonias  but more careful  prospective  randomized studies are needed. combinations of bilateral targets are possible with the current technology of dbs  but not widely used due to surgical morbidity and expense. this article reviews the surgical treatment of dystonia from past to present  with a focus on separating the outcomes for primary versus secondary and generalized versus cervical dystonia.
2949,uptake of rosuvastatin by isolated rat hepatocytes: comparison with pravastatin.,1. the liver is the target organ for the lipid-regulating effect of rosuvastatin  a new 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme a reductase inhibitor  and liver-selective uptake of this drug is therefore a desirable property. the uptake kinetics of rosuvastatin were investigated and compared with those of pravastatin using isolated rat hepatocytes. 2. uptake for both drugs involved both active transport and passive diffusion processes. the michaelis constant (k(m)) of uptake rate for rosuvastatin (9.17 micro m) was approximately half that for pravastatin (16.5 micro m). however  the maximum uptake rate (v(max)) and carrier-mediated uptake clearance (v(max)/k(m)) of rosuvastatin were significantly (p < 0.01) greater than those of pravastatin  and a larger contribution of carrier-mediated uptake clearance to total uptake clearance was shown for rosuvastatin (contribution ratio 0.903 versus pravastatin 0.654). 3. sodium and chloride ions did not play a significant role in the uptake of rosuvastatin and pravastatin  but the uptake of both drugs was inhibited both by depletion of cellular atp and by organic anions such as bromosulfophthalein. 4. rosuvastatin competitively inhibited the uptake of pravastatin  with an inhibition constant (k(i)) (2.75 micro m) relatively similar to its k(m). 5. the results suggest that an organic anion transport protein is the main mediator of the hepatic uptake of rosuvastatin and pravastatin  which occurs in an atp-dependent manner. our results indicated that rosuvastatin was taken up by the hepatocytes via the same transport systems as pravastatin  but with a greater affinity and efficiency than pravastatin.
2951,the pi3k inhibitor arsenal: choose your weapon!,owing to its widespread activation in inflammation and cancer  a growing appreciation of the therapeutic potential of inhibitors of the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (pi3k) pathway has stimulated intense interest in compounds with suitable pharmacological profiles. these are primarily directed toward pi3k itself. however  as class i pi3ks are also essential for a range of normal physiological processes  broad spectrum pi3k inhibition could be poorly tolerated. in recent years  patents describing a new generation of pi3k inhibitors have started to appear  with a particular focus on the development of compounds with enhanced isoform selectivity for use as anti-cancer and anti-inflammatory therapies. however  challenges remain for the efforts to pharmacologically target this enzyme family in a successful manner.
2953,compaction of chromatin by diverse polycomb group proteins requires localized regions of high charge.,polycomb group (pcg) proteins are required for the epigenetic maintenance of developmental genes in a silent state. proteins in the polycomb-repressive complex 1 (prc1) class of the pcg are conserved from flies to humans and inhibit transcription. one hypothesis for prc1 mechanism is that it compacts chromatin  based in part on electron microscopy experiments demonstrating that drosophila prc1 compacts nucleosomal arrays. we show that this function is conserved between drosophila and mouse prc1 complexes and requires a region with an overrepresentation of basic amino acids. while the active region is found in the posterior sex combs (psc) subunit in drosophila  it is unexpectedly found in a different prc1 subunit  a polycomb homolog called m33  in mice. we provide experimental support for the general importance of a charged region by predicting the compacting capability of pcg proteins from species other than drosophila and mice and by testing several of these proteins using solution assays and microscopy. we infer that the ability of pcg proteins to compact chromatin in vitro can be predicted by the presence of domains of high positive charge and that prc1 components from a variety of species conserve this highly charged region. this supports the hypothesis that compaction is a key aspect of pcg function.
2955,balancing co-stimulation and inhibition with btla and hvem,the interaction between b- and t-lymphocyte attenuator (btla)  an inhibitory receptor whose extracellular domain belongs to the immunoglobulin superfamily  and herpesvirus-entry mediator (hvem)  a co-stimulatory tumour-necrosis factor receptor  is unique in that it is the only receptor–ligand interaction that directly bridges these two families of receptors. this interaction has raised many questions about how receptors from two different families could interact and what downstream signalling events might occur as a result of receptor ligation. as we discuss  recent studies show that engagement of hvem with its endogenous ligand (light) from the tumour-necrosis factor family induces a powerful immune response  whereas hvem interactions with btla negatively regulate t-cell responses.
2957,nanoenzymology of the 20s proteasome: proteasomal actions are controlled by the allosteric transition.,the proteasome is a major cytosolic proteolytic assembly  essential for the physiology of eukaryotic cells. both the architecture and enzymatic properties of the 20s proteasome are relatively well understood. however  despite longstanding interest  the integration of structural and functional properties of the proteasome into a coherent model explaining the mechanism of its enzymatic actions has been difficult. recently  we used tapping mode atomic force microscopy (afm) in liquid to demonstrate that the alpha-rings of the proteasome imaged in a top-view position repeatedly switched between their open and closed conformations  apparently to control access to the central channel. here  we show with afm that the molecules in a side-view position acquired two stable conformations. the overall shapes of the 20s particles were classified as either barrel-like or cylinder-like. the relative abundance of the two conformers depended on the nature of their interactions with ligands. similarly to the closed molecules in top view  the barrels predominated in control or inhibited molecules. the cylinders and open molecules prevailed when the proteasome was observed in the presence of peptide substrates. based on these data  we developed the two-state model of allosteric transitions to explain the dynamics of proteasomal structure. this model helps to better understand the observed properties of the 20s molecule  and sets foundations for further studies of the structural dynamics of the proteasome.
2959,propagation and recovery of intact  infectious epstein-barr virus from prokaryotic to human cells.,with current techniques  genetic alterations of herpesviruses are difficult to perform  mostly because of the large size of their genomes. to solve this problem  we have designed a system that allows the cloning of any gamma-herpesvirus in escherichia coli onto an f factor-derived plasmid. immortalized b cell lines were readily established with recombinant epstein-barr virus (ebv)  demonstrating that the f factor-cloned ebv genome has all the characteristics of wild-type ebv. because any genetic modification is possible in e. coli  this experimental approach opens the way to the genetic analysis of all ebv functions. moreover  it is now feasible to generate attenuated ebv strains in vitro such that vaccine strains can be designed. because we incorporated the genes for hygromycin resistance and green fluorescent protein onto the e. coli cloned ebv genome  the still open question of the ebv target cells other than b lymphocytes will be addressed.
2961,trends in heart failure incidence and survival in a community-based population.,context the epidemic of heart failure has yet to be fully investigated  and data on incidence  survival  and sex-specific temporal trends in community-based populations are limited. objective to test the hypothesis that the incidence of heart failure has declined and survival after heart failure diagnosis has improved over time but that secular trends have diverged by sex. design  setting  and participants population-based cohort study using the resources of the rochester epidemiology project conducted in olmsted county  minnesota. patients were 4537 olmsted county residents (57% women; mean [sd] age  74 [14] years) with a diagnosis of heart failure between 1979 and 2000. framingham criteria and clinical criteria were used to validate the diagnosis   main outcome measures incidence of heart failure and survival after heart failure diagnosis. results the incidence of heart failure was higher among men (378/100 000 persons; 95% confidence interval [ci]  361-395 for men; 289/100 000 persons; 95% ci  277-300 for women) and did not change over time among men or women. after a mean follow-up of 4.2 years (range  0-23.8 years)  3347 deaths occurred  including 1930 among women and 1417 among men. survival after heart failure diagnosis was worse among men than women (relative risk  1.33; 95% ci  1.24-1.43) but overall improved over time (5-year age-adjusted survival  43% in 1979-1984 vs 52% in 1996-2000  p<.001). however  men and younger persons experienced larger survival gains  contrasting with less or no improvement for women and elderly persons. conclusion in this community-based cohort  the incidence of heart failure has not declined during 2 decades  but survival after onset of heart failure has increased overall  with less improvement among women and elderly persons.
2963,orientationally invariant indices of axon diameter and density from diffusion mri.,this paper proposes and tests a technique for imaging orientationally invariant indices of axon diameter and density in white matter using diffusion magnetic resonance imaging. such indices potentially provide more specific markers of white matter microstructure than standard indices from diffusion tensor imaging. orientational invariance allows for combination with tractography and presents new opportunities for mapping brain connectivity and quantifying disease processes. the technique uses a four-compartment tissue model combined with an optimized multishell high-angular-resolution pulsed-gradient-spin-echo acquisition. we test the method in simulation  on fixed monkey brains using a preclinical scanner and on live human brains using a clinical 3t scanner. the human data take about one hour to acquire. the simulation experiments show that both monkey and human protocols distinguish distributions of axon diameters that occur naturally in white matter. we compare the axon diameter index with the mean axon diameter weighted by axon volume. the index differs from this mean and is protocol dependent  but correlation is good for the monkey protocol and weaker  but discernible  for the human protocol where greater diffusivity and lower gradient strength limit sensitivity to only the largest axons. maps of axon diameter and density indices from the monkey and human data in the corpus callosum and corticospinal tract reflect known trends from histology. the results show orientationally invariant sensitivity to natural axon diameter distributions for the first time with both specialist and clinical hardware. this demonstration motivates further refinement  validation  and evaluation of the precise nature of the indices and the influence of potential confounds.
2965,oncostatic effects of the indole melatonin and expression of its cytosolic and nuclear receptors in cultured human melanoma cell lines.,melatonin has been shown to have oncostatic effects on malignant melanoma in vitro and in vivo. we studied the growth suppressive effects of melatonin over a wide range of concentrations in four melanoma cell lines (sbce2  wm-98  wm-164 and skmel-188) representative for different growth stages and phenotype. melanoma cells were incubated with melatonin 10(-12)-10(-3) m  and proliferation and clonogenicity was assessed at 12 h and 14 days  respectively. we also determined the expression of cytosolic quinone oxidoreductases nqo1  nqo2 (known as mt3 receptor) and nuclear receptor roralpha by rt-pcr. melatonin at pharmacological concentrations (10(-3)-10(-7) m) suppressed proliferation in all melanoma cell lines. in skmel-188 cells cultured in serum-free media  melatonin at low concentrations (10(-12)-10(-10) m) also slightly attenuated the proliferation. the effects of pharmacological doses of melatonin were confirmed in the clonogenic assay. expression of nqo1 was detected in all cell lines  whereas nqo2 and nuclear receptor roralpha including its isoform roralpha4 were present only in sbce2  wm-164 and wm-98. thus  melatonin differentially suppressed proliferation in melanoma cell lines of different behaviour. the intensity of the oncostatic response to melatonin could be related to the cell-line specific pattern of melatonin cellular receptors and cytosolic binding protein expression.
2967,evolution of metastasis revealed by mutational landscapes of chemically induced skin cancers,human tumors show a high level of genetic heterogeneity  but the processes that influence the timing and route of metastatic dissemination of the subclones are unknown. here we have used whole-exome sequencing of 103 matched benign  malignant and metastatic skin tumors from genetically heterogeneous mice to demonstrate that most metastases disseminate synchronously from the primary tumor  supporting parallel rather than linear evolution as the predominant model of metastasis. shared mutations between primary carcinomas and their matched metastases have the distinct a-to-t signature of the initiating carcinogen dimethylbenzanthracene  but non-shared mutations are primarily g-to-t  a signature associated with oxidative stress. the existence of carcinomas that either did or did not metastasize in the same host animal suggests that there are tumor-intrinsic factors that influence metastatic seeding. we also demonstrate the importance of germline polymorphisms in determining allele-specific mutations  and we identify somatic genetic alterations that are specifically related to initiation of carcinogenesis by hras or kras mutations. mouse tumors that mimic the genetic heterogeneity of human cancers can aid our understanding of the clonal evolution of metastasis and provide a realistic model for the testing of novel therapies.
2969,a simple two-step protocol for the purification of human pancreatic beta cells,isolated pure human beta cells would be helpful for a number of research purposes. however  lack of beta cell-specific surface antigens has been a major problem. we aimed to develop a simple method for human beta cell isolation based on the initial elimination of ductal cells by their expression of carbohydrate antigen 19-9 (ca19-9)  followed by positive selection of beta cells by their expression of polysialic acid–neural cell adhesion molecule (psa-ncam). cell type-specific expression of ca19-9  ncam and psa-ncam was studied in sections of adult human pancreas and in cultured primary endocrine and exocrine cells. dispersed human islet cells were purified in two steps  after 4 days of suspension culture  by binding to magnetic microbeads coupled to antibodies against ca19-9 and psa-ncam. ncam expression was detected in ducts and islets in the human pancreas. in contrast  psa-ncam immunoreactivity was detected only in islets. psa-ncam staining in dispersed cells revealed that the marker is expressed in all endocrine cell types  but not in duct cells. purification of dispersed islet cells using psa-ncam microbeads alone did not completely eliminate contaminating duct cells. however  elimination of the duct cells by ca19-9 microbeads followed by positive sorting of the psa-ncam-positive cells in five consecutive islet preparations resulted in 90 to 98% pure endocrine cells  of which 89 to 97% were beta cells. we describe a simple and reproducible method for purification of viable human pancreatic beta cells devoid of exocrine acini and ducts.
2971,ascorbic-acid transporter slc23a1 is essential for vitamin c transport into the brain and for perinatal survival,the only proven requirement for ascorbic acid (vitamin c) is in preventing scurvy  presumably because it is a cofactor for hydroxylases required for post-translational modifications that stabilize collagen. we have created mice deficient in the mouse ortholog (solute carrier family 23 member 1 or slc23a1) of a rat ascorbic-acid transporter  svct2 (ref. 4). cultured embryonic fibroblasts from homozygous slc23a1−/− mice had less than 5% of normal ascorbic-acid uptake. ascorbic-acid levels were undetectable or markedly reduced in the blood and tissues of slc23a1−/− mice. prenatal supplementation of pregnant females did not elevate blood ascorbic acid in slc23a1−/− fetuses  suggesting slc23a1 is important in placental ascorbic-acid transport. slc23a1−/− mice died within a few minutes of birth with respiratory failure and intraparenchymal brain hemorrhage. lungs showed no postnatal expansion but had normal surfactant protein b levels. brain hemorrhage was unlikely to be simply a form of scurvy since slc23a1−/− mice showed no hemorrhage in any other tissues and their skin had normal skin 4-hydroxyproline levels despite low ascorbic-acid content. we conclude that slc23a1 is required for transport of ascorbic acid into many tissues and across the placenta. deficiency of the transporter is lethal in newborn mice  thereby revealing a previously unrecognized requirement for ascorbic acid in the perinatal period.
2973,casual blood pressure and neurocognitive function in children with chronic kidney disease: a report of the children with chronic kidney disease cohort study.,background and objectives children with chronic kidney disease (ckd) are at risk for cognitive dysfunction  and over half have hypertension. data on the potential contribution of hypertension to ckd-associated neurocognitive deficits in children are limited. our objective was to determine whether children with ckd and elevated bp (ebp) had decreased performance on neurocognitive testing compared with children with ckd and normal bp. design  setting  participants  & measurements this was a cross-sectional analysis of the relation between auscultatory bp and neurocognitive test performance in children 6 to 17 years enrolled in the chronic kidney disease in children (ckid) project. results of 383 subjects  132 (34%) had ebp (systolic bp and/or diastolic bp ≥90(th) percentile). subjects with ebp had lower mean (sd) scores on wechsler abbreviated scales of intelligence (wasi) performance iq than those with normal bp (normal bp versus ebp  96.1 (16.7) versus 92.4 (14.9)  p = 0.03) and wasi full scale iq (97.0 (16.2) versus 93.4 (16.5)  p = 0.04). bp index (subject's bp/95(th) percentile bp) correlated inversely with performance iq score (systolic  r = -0.13  p = 0.01; diastolic  r = -0.19  p < 0.001). on multivariate analysis  the association between lower performance iq score and increased bp remained significant after controlling for demographic and disease-related variables (ebp  β = -3.7  95% confidence interval [ci]: -7.3 to -0.06; systolic bp index  β = -1.16 to 95% ci: -2.1  -0.21; diastolic bp index  β = -1.17  95% ci: -1.8 to -0.55). conclusions higher bp was independently associated with decreased wasi performance iq scores in children with mild-to-moderate ckd.
2975,the changing epidemiology of malaria in ifakara town  southern tanzania.,between 1995 and 2000 there were marked changes in the epidemiology of malaria in ifakara  southern tanzania. we documented these changes using parasitological and clinical data from a series of community- and hospital-based studies involving children up to the age of 5 years. there was a right shift and lowering in the age-specific parasite prevalence in the community-based cohort studies. the incidence of clinical malaria in placebo-receiving infants in additional study cohorts dropped from 0.8 in 1995 to 0.43 episodes per infant per year in 2000  an incidence rate ratio of 0.53 (95% confidence interval: 0.404  0.70  p<0.0001). at the same time  there was an increase in the total number of malaria admissions and a marked right shift in the age pattern of these admissions (median age in 1995 1.55 years vs. 2.33 in 2000  p<0.0001). however  the burden of malaria deaths remained in infants. we discuss how these dramatic changes in the epidemiology of malaria may have arisen from the use of currently available malaria control tools. caution is required in the interpretation of hospital-based data as it is likely to underestimate the impact of anaemia on mortality in the community  where most paediatric deaths occur. even in low/moderate malaria transmission settings  where older children suffer most malaria episodes  targeting effective malaria control at infants may produce important reductions in infant mortality caused by malaria.
2977,activation of par(2) receptors sensitizes primary afferents and causes leukocyte rolling and adherence in the rat knee joint.,background and purpose the par(2) receptors are involved in chronic arthritis by mechanisms that are as yet unclear. here  we examined par(2) activation in the rat knee joint. experimental approach par(2) in rat knee joint dorsal root ganglia (drg) cells at l3-l5  retrogradely labelled with fluoro-gold (fg) were demonstrated immunohistochemically. electrophysiological recordings from knee joint nerve fibres in urethane anaesthetized wistar rats assessed the effects of stimulating joint par(2) with its activating peptide  2-furoyl-ligrlo-nh(2) (1-100 nmol·100 μl(-1)   via close intra-arterial injection). fibre firing rate was recorded during joint rotations before and 15 min after administration of par(2) activating peptide or control peptide. leukocyte kinetics in the synovial vasculature upon par(2) activation were followed by intravital microscopy for 60 min after perfusion of 2-furoyl-ligrlo-nh(2) or control peptide. roles for transient receptor potential vanilloid-1 (trpv1) or neurokinin-1 (nk(1) ) receptors in the par(2) responses were assessed using the selective antagonists  sb366791 and rp67580 respectively. key results par(2) were expressed in 59 ± 5% of fg-positive drg cells; 100 nmol 2-furoyl-ligrlo-nh(2) increased joint fibre firing rate during normal and noxious rotation  maximal at 3 min (normal; 110 ± 43%  noxious; 90 ± 31%). 2-furoyl-ligrlo-nh(2) also significantly increased leukocyte rolling and adhesion over 60 min. all these effects were blocked by pre-treatment with sb366791 and rp67580 (p < 0.05 compared with 2-furoyl-ligrlo-nh(2) alone). conclusions and implications par(2) receptors play an acute inflammatory role in the knee joint via trpv1- and nk(1) -dependent mechanisms involving both par(2) -mediated neuronal sensitization and leukocyte trafficking.
2979,natural history of asymptomatic unruptured cerebral aneurysms evaluated at ct angiography: growth and rupture incidence and correlation with epidemiologic risk factors.,purpose to characterize the relationship between aneurysm size and epidemiologic risk factors with growth and rupture by using computed tomographic (ct) angiography. materials and methods in this hipaa-compliant  institutional review board approved study  patients with known asymptomatic unruptured intracerebral aneurysms were followed up longitudinally with ct angiographic examinations. growth was defined as an increase in one or more dimensions above the measurement error  and at least 5% volume by using the abc/2 method. associations of epidemiologic factors with aneurysm growth and rupture were analyzed by using logistic regression analysis. intra- and interobserver agreement coefficients for dimension  volume  and growth were evaluated by using the pearson correlation coefficient and difference of means with 95% confidence intervals  the agreement statistic  and the mcnemar χ(2). results patients (n = 165) with aneurysms (n = 258) had a mean follow-up time of 2.24 years from time of diagnosis. forty-six of 258 (18%) aneurysms in 38 patients grew larger. spontaneous rupture occurred in four of 228 (1.8%) intradural aneurysms of average size (6.2 mm). risk of aneurysm rupture per patient-year was 2.4% (95% ci: 0.5%  7.12%) with growth and 0.2% (95% ci: 0.006%  1.22%) without growth (p = .034). there was a 12-fold higher risk of rupture for growing aneurysms (p < .002)  with high intra- and interobserver correlation coefficients for size  volume  and growth. tobacco smoking (3.806  one degree of freedom; p < .015 ) and initial size (5.895  two degrees of freedom; p < .051) were independent covariates  predicting 78.4% of growing aneurysms. conclusion these results support imaging follow-up of all patients with aneurysms  including those whose aneurysms are smaller than the current 7-mm treatment threshold. aneurysm growth  size  and smoking were associated with increased rupture risk.
2981,direct reprogramming of mouse fibroblasts to cardiomyocyte-like cells using yamanaka factors on engineered poly(ethylene glycol) (peg) hydrogels.,direct reprogramming strategies enable rapid conversion of somatic cells to cardiomyocytes or cardiomyocyte-like cells without going through the pluripotent state. a recently described protocol couples yamanaka factor induction with pluripotency inhibition followed by bmp4 treatment to achieve rapid reprogramming of mouse fibroblasts to beating cardiomyocyte-like cells. the original study was performed using matrigel-coated tissue culture polystyrene (tcps)  a stiff material that also non-specifically adsorbs serum proteins. protein adsorption-resistant poly(ethylene glycol) (peg) materials can be covalently modified to present precise concentrations of adhesion proteins or peptides without the unintended effects of non-specifically adsorbed proteins. here  we describe an improved protocol that incorporates custom-engineered materials. we first reproduced the efe et al. protocol on matrigel-coated tcps (the original material)  reprogramming adult mouse tail-tip mouse fibroblasts (ttf) and mouse embryonic fibroblasts (mef) to cardiomyocyte-like cells that demonstrated striated sarcomeric α-actinin staining  spontaneous calcium transients  and visible beating. we then designed poly(ethylene glycol) culture substrates to promote mef adhesion via laminin and rgd-binding integrins. peg hydrogels improved proliferation and reprogramming efficiency (evidenced by beating patch number and area  gene expression  and flow cytometry)  yielding almost twice the number of sarcomeric α-actinin positive cardiomyocyte-like cells as the originally described substrate. these results illustrate that cellular reprogramming may be enhanced using custom-engineered materials.
2983,hypoxia — a key regulatory factor in tumour growth,cells undergo a variety of biological responses when placed in hypoxic conditions  including activation of signalling pathways that regulate proliferation  angiogenesis and death. cancer cells have adapted these pathways  allowing tumours to survive and even grow under hypoxic conditions  and tumour hypoxia is associated with poor prognosis and resistance to radiation therapy. many elements of the hypoxia-response pathway are therefore good candidates for therapeutic targeting.
2985,monitoring starvation-induced reactive oxygen species formation.,reactive oxygen species (ros) are potentially harmful to cells because of their ability to oxidize cell constituents such as dna  proteins  and lipids. however  at low levels  and under tight control  this feature makes them excellent modifiers in a variety of signal transduction pathways  including autophagy. autophagy was traditionally associated with oxidative stress  acting in the degradation of oxidized proteins and organelles. recently  a signaling role was suggested for ros in the regulation of autophagy  leading  under different circumstances  either to survival or to death. to study the effects of ros on this pathway  one must determine the localization  intensity  kinetics  and essentiality of the oxidative signal in autophagy. moreover  once characterized  detection and manipulation of ros formation could be used to monitor and control autophagic activity. in this chapter we discuss methods to examine ros in the context of autophagy.
2987,the rice fish bone gene encodes a tryptophan aminotransferase  which affects pleiotropic auxin-related processes.,auxin is a fundamental plant hormone and its localization within organs plays pivotal roles in plant growth and development. analysis of many arabidopsis mutants that were defective in auxin biosynthesis revealed that the indole-3-pyruvic acid (ipa) pathway  catalyzed by the tryptophan aminotransferase of arabidopsis (taa) and yucca (yuc) families  is the major biosynthetic pathway of indole-3-acetic acid (iaa). in contrast  little information is known about the molecular mechanisms of auxin biosynthesis in rice. in this study  we identified a auxin-related rice mutant  fish bone (fib). fib encodes an orthologue of taa genes and loss of fib function resulted in pleiotropic abnormal phenotypes  such as small leaves with large lamina joint angles  abnormal vascular development  small panicles  abnormal organ identity and defects in root development  together with a reduction in internal iaa levels. moreover  we found that auxin sensitivity and polar transport activity were altered in the fib mutant. from these results  we suggest that fib plays a pivotal role in iaa biosynthesis in rice and that auxin biosynthesis  transport and sensitivity are closely interrelated.
2989,a genome-wide crispr death screen identifies genes essential for oxidative phosphorylation.,oxidative phosphorylation (oxphos) is the major pathway for atp production in humans. deficiencies in oxphos can arise from mutations in either mitochondrial or nuclear genomes and comprise the largest collection of inborn errors of metabolism. at present we lack a complete catalog of human genes and pathways essential for oxphos. here we introduce a genome-wide crispr "death screen" that actively selects dying cells to reveal human genes required for oxphos  inspired by the classic observation that human cells deficient in oxphos survive in glucose but die in galactose. we report 191 high-confidence hits essential for oxphos  including 72 underlying known oxphos diseases. our screen reveals a functional module consisting of ngrn  wbscr16  rpusd3  rpusd4  trub2  and fastkd2 that regulates the mitochondrial 16s rrna and intra-mitochondrial translation. our work yields a rich catalog of genes required for oxphos and  more generally  demonstrates the power of death screening for functional genomic analysis.
2991,mortality from causes amenable and non-amenable to medical care: the experience of eastern europe.,objective to investigate comparative national trends in mortality from conditions amenable to timely  appropriate medical care and from those considered not to be amenable to such care. design analysis of trends in direct age standardised mortality from the 1950s to 1987. setting four eastern european nations (hungary  czechoslovakia  poland  the german democratic republic) and two western european (the federal republic of germany and england and wales) and two north american nations (united states and canada). subjects the total populations of the relevant countries during the period examined. main outcome measures proportional changes over time in age standardised mortality. mortality from amenable and non-amenable causes was restricted to the age group 0-64. results a divergence in the trends for all cause mortality between eastern europe and the western nations occurred in about 1970  when the rates in western countries steadily declined but those in eastern europe remained fairly static. in the age group 0-64 mortality from causes considered amenable to medical care fell less quickly in eastern europe than in the west  particularly after 1970. in the same age group  mortality from non-amenable causes rose in eastern european countries from the late 1960s compared with substantial declines in such mortality in the west. conclusions non-amenable causes of death seem to be the principal  but not exclusive  reason for lack of improvement in trends in all cause mortality in eastern europe from 1970. the agenda for action in eastern europe should give priority to a healthier lifestyle and improvement of the environment though not neglect enhancements in the quality and efficiency of direct health services.
2993,modeling neurogenesis impairment in down syndrome with induced pluripotent stem cells from trisomy 21 amniotic fluid cells.,down syndrome (ds)  or trisomy 21 (t21) syndrome  one of the most common chromosomal abnormalities  is caused by an extra duplication of chromosome 21. in studies of neuron development  experimental models based on human cells are considered to be the most desired and accurate for basic research. the generation of diseased induced pluripotetn stem (ips) cell is a critical step in understanding the developmental stages of complex neuronal diseases. here  we generated human ds ips cell lines from second trimester amniotic fluid (af) cells with t21 by co-expressing yamanaka factors through lentiviral delivery and subsequently differentiated them into neuronal progenitor cells (npcs) for further analyses. t21 af-ips cells were characterized for the expression of pluripotent markers and for their ability to differentiate into all three germ layers by forming embryoid bodies in vitro and teratomas in vivo. the t21 af-ips cells maintained their unique pattern of chromosomal karyotypes: three pairs of chromosome 21. the level of amyloid precursor protein was significantly increased in npcs derived from t21 af-ips cells compared with npcs from normal af-ips cells. the expression levels of mir-155 and mir-802 in t21 af-ips-npcs were highly elevated in the presence of low expression of mecp2. we observed that t21 ips-npcs generated fewer neurons compared with controls. t21 ips-npcs exhibit developmental defects during neurogenesis. our findings suggest that t21 af-ips cells serve as a good source to further elucidate the impairment neurogenesis of ds and the onset of alzheimer's disease.
2995,myc/miz1-dependent gene repression inversely coordinates the circadian clock with cell cycle and proliferation,the circadian clock and the cell cycle are major cellular systems that organize global physiology in temporal fashion. it seems conceivable that the potentially conflicting programs are coordinated. we show here that overexpression of myc in u2os cells attenuates the clock and conversely promotes cell proliferation while downregulation of myc strengthens the clock and reduces proliferation. inhibition of the circadian clock is crucially dependent on the formation of repressive complexes of myc with miz1 and subsequent downregulation of the core clock genes bmal1 (arntl)  clock and npas2. we show furthermore that bmal1 expression levels correlate inversely with myc levels in 102 human lymphomas. our data suggest that myc acts as a master coordinator that inversely modulates the impact of cell cycle and circadian clock on gene expression.
2997,increasing informed uptake and non-uptake of screening: evidence from a systematic review.,objective to report data relating to the informed uptake of screening tests. search strategy electronic databases  bibliographies and experts were used to identify relevant published and unpublished studies up until august 2000. inclusion criteria rcts  quasi-rcts and controlled trials of interventions aimed at increasing the informed uptake of screening. all participants were eligible as defined by the entry criteria of individual programmes. studies had to report actual uptake and meet three out of four criteria used to define informed uptake. data extraction and synthesis relevant studies were identified  data extracted and their validity assessed by two reviewers independently. outcome data included screening uptake  knowledge  informed decision-making and attitudes to screening. a random-effects model was used to calculate individual relative risks and 95% confidence intervals. main results six controlled trials (five rcts and one quasi-rct)  focusing on antenatal and prostate specific antigen screening  were included. all reported risks/benefits of screening and assessed knowledge. two also assessed decision-making. two reported risks/benefits to all randomized groups and evaluated different ways of presenting information. neither found that interventions such as videos  information leaflets with decision trees  or touch screen computers conveyed any additional benefits over well-prepared leaflets. conclusions there is some evidence to suggest that changing the format of informed choice interventions in screening does not alter knowledge  satisfaction or decisions about screening. it is not clear whether informed choice in screening affects uptake. more well-designed rcts are required and further research should also be directed towards the development of a valid instrument for measuring all components of informed choice in screening.
2999,controlling nuclear receptors: the circular logic of cofactor cycles,nuclear receptors regulate many biologically important processes in development and homeostasis by their bimodal function as repressors and activators of gene transcription. a finely tuned modulation of the transcriptional activities of nuclear receptors is crucial for determining highly specific and diversified programmes of gene expression. recent studies have provided insights into the molecular mechanisms that are required to switch between repression and activation functions  the combinatorial roles of the multiple cofactor complexes that are required for mediating transcriptional regulation  and the central question of how several different signalling pathways can be integrated at the nuclear level to achieve specific profiles of gene expression.
3001,spatial genome organization: contrasting views from chromosome conformation capture and fluorescence in situ hybridization.,although important for gene regulation  most studies of genome organization use either fluorescence in situ hybridization (fish) or chromosome conformation capture (3c) methods. fish directly visualizes the spatial relationship of sequences but is usually applied to a few loci at a time. the frequency at which sequences are ligated together by formaldehyde cross-linking can be measured genome-wide by 3c methods  with higher frequencies thought to reflect shorter distances. fish and 3c should therefore give the same views of genome organization  but this has not been tested extensively. we investigated the murine hoxd locus with 3c carbon copy (5c) and fish in different developmental and activity states and in the presence or absence of epigenetic regulators. we identified situations in which the two data sets are concordant but found other conditions under which chromatin topographies extrapolated from 5c or fish data are not compatible. we suggest that products captured by 3c do not always reflect spatial proximity  with ligation occurring between sequences located hundreds of nanometers apart  influenced by nuclear environment and chromatin composition. we conclude that results obtained at high resolution with either 3c methods or fish alone must be interpreted with caution and that views about genome organization should be validated by independent methods.
3003,jtk_cycle: an efficient nonparametric algorithm for detecting rhythmic components in genome-scale data sets.,circadian rhythms are oscillations of physiology  behavior  and metabolism that have period lengths near 24 hours. in several model organisms and humans  circadian clock genes have been characterized and found to be transcription factors. because of this  researchers have used microarrays to characterize global regulation of gene expression and algorithmic approaches to detect cycling. this article presents a new algorithm  jtk_cycle  designed to efficiently identify and characterize cycling variables in large data sets. compared with cosopt and the fisher's g test  two commonly used methods for detecting cycling transcripts  jtk_cycle distinguishes between rhythmic and nonrhythmic transcripts more reliably and efficiently. jtk_cycle's increased resistance to outliers results in considerably greater sensitivity and specificity. moreover  jtk_cycle accurately measures the period  phase  and amplitude of cycling transcripts  facilitating downstream analyses. finally  jtk_cycle is several orders of magnitude faster than cosopt  making it ideal for large-scale data sets. jtk_cycle was used to analyze legacy data sets including nih3t3 cells  which have comparatively low amplitude oscillations. jtk_cycle's improved power led to the identification of a novel cluster of rna-interacting genes whose abundance is under clear circadian regulation. these data suggest that jtk_cycle is an ideal tool for identifying and characterizing oscillations in genome-scale data sets.
3005,consumption of isoflavone-rich soy protein does not alter homocysteine or markers of inflammation in postmenopausal women,background/objective:to investigate the effect of soy protein containing isoflavones on homocysteine (hcy)  c-reactive protein (crp)  soluble e-selectin (se-selectin)  soluble vascular adhesion molecule-1 (svcam-1) and soluble intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (sicam-1).subject/methods:in a randomized crossover design  34 postmenopausal women consumed soy protein isolate (26±5 g protein containing 44±8 mg isoflavones per day) or milk protein isolate (26±5 g protein per day) for 6 weeks each. fasting blood samples were collected at the end of each diet period and end points analyzed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. results:concentrations of hcy  crp  se-selectin  svcam-1 and sicam-1 were not different between soy and milk diet treatments. results did not differ by equol production status or by baseline lipid concentration. adjustment for intake of folate and methionine did not alter the hcy results. conclusions:these data suggest that decreasing vascular inflammation and hcy concentration are not likely mechanisms by which soy consumption reduces coronary heart disease risk.
3007,global strategy for the diagnosis  management  and prevention of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: gold executive summary.,chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd) is a global health problem  and since 2001  the global initiative for chronic obstructive lung disease (gold) has published its strategy document for the diagnosis and management of copd. this executive summary presents the main contents of the second 5-year revision of the gold document that has implemented some of the vast knowledge about copd accumulated over the last years. today  gold recommends that spirometry is required for the clinical diagnosis of copd to avoid misdiagnosis and to ensure proper evaluation of severity of airflow limitation. the document highlights that the assessment of the patient with copd should always include assessment of (1) symptoms  (2) severity of airflow limitation  (3) history of exacerbations  and (4) comorbidities. the first three points can be used to evaluate level of symptoms and risk of future exacerbations  and this is done in a way that splits patients with copd into four categories-a  b  c  and d. nonpharmacologic and pharmacologic management of copd match this assessment in an evidence-based attempt to relieve symptoms and reduce risk of exacerbations. identification and treatment of comorbidities must have high priority  and a separate section in the document addresses management of comorbidities as well as copd in the presence of comorbidities. the revised document also contains a new section on exacerbations of copd. the gold initiative will continue to bring copd to the attention of all relevant shareholders and will hopefully inspire future national and local guidelines on the management of copd.
3009,recovery of supraspinal control of stepping via indirect propriospinal relay connections after spinal cord injury,spinal cord injuries (scis) in humans and experimental animals are often associated with varying degrees of spontaneous functional recovery during the first months after injury. such recovery is widely attributed to axons spared from injury that descend from the brain and bypass incomplete lesions  but its mechanisms are uncertain. to investigate the neural basis of spontaneous recovery  we used kinematic  physiological and anatomical analyses to evaluate mice with various combinations of spatially and temporally separated lateral hemisections with or without the excitotoxic ablation of intrinsic spinal cord neurons. we show that propriospinal relay connections that bypass one or more injury sites are able to mediate spontaneous functional recovery and supraspinal control of stepping  even when there has been essentially total and irreversible interruption of long descending supraspinal pathways in mice. our findings show that pronounced functional recovery can occur after severe sci without the maintenance or regeneration of direct projections from the brain past the lesion and can be mediated by the reorganization of descending and propriospinal connections. targeting interventions toward augmenting the remodeling of relay connections may provide new therapeutic strategies to bypass lesions and restore function after sci and in other conditions such as stroke and multiple sclerosis.
3011,molecular strategies in biological evolution of antimicrobial peptides.,gene-encoded antimicrobial peptides that protect the skin of hylid and ranin frogs against noxious microorganisms are processed from a unique family of precursor polypeptides with a unique pattern of conserved and variable regions opposite to that of conventional secreted peptides. precursors belonging to this family  designated the preprodermaseptin  have a common n-terminal preproregion that is remarkably well conserved both within and between species  but a hypervariable c-terminal domain corresponding to antimicrobial peptides with very different lengths  sequences  charges and antimicrobial spectra. each frog species has its own distinct panoply of 10-20 antimicrobial peptides so that the 5000 species of ranids and hylids may produce approximately 100 000 different peptide antibiotics. the strategy that these frogs have evolved to generate this enormous array of peptides includes repeated duplications of a 150 million years old ancestral gene  focal hypermutation of the antimicrobial peptide domain maybe involving a mutagenic dna polymerase similar to escherichia coli pol v  and subsequent actions of positive (diversifying) selection. the hyperdivergence of skin antimicrobial peptides can be viewed as the successful evolution of a multi-drug defense system that provides frogs with maximum protection against rapidly changing microbial biota and minimizes the chance of microorganisms developing resistance to individual peptides. the impressive variations in the expression of frog skin antimicrobial peptides may be exploited for discovering new molecules and structural motifs targeting specific microorganisms for which the therapeutic armamentarium is scarce.
3013,promiscuous gene expression in medullary thymic epithelial cells mirrors the peripheral self,expression of peripheral antigens in the thymus has been implicated in t cell tolerance and autoimmunity. here we identified medullary thymic epithelial cells as being a unique cell type that expresses a diverse range of tissue-specific antigens. we found that this promiscuous gene expression was a cell-autonomous property of medullary epithelial cells and was maintained during the entire period of thymic t cell output. it may facilitate tolerance induction to self-antigens that would otherwise be temporally or spatially secluded from the immune system. however  the array of promiscuously expressed self-antigens appeared random rather than selected and was not confined to secluded self-antigens.
3015,gata3 transcription factor abrogates smad4 transcription factor-mediated fascin overexpression  invadopodium formation  and breast cancer cell invasion.,transforming growth factor β (tgfβ) is a potent and context-dependent regulator of tumor progression. tgfβ promotes the lung metastasis of basal-like (but not the luminal-like) breast cancer. here  we demonstrated that fascin  a pro-metastasis actin bundling protein  was a direct target of the canonical tgfβ-smad4 signaling pathway in basal-like breast cancer cells. tgfβ and smad4 induced fascin overexpression by directly binding to a smad binding element on the fascin promoter. we identified gata3  a transcription factor crucial for mammary gland morphogenesis and luminal differentiation  as a negative regulator of tgfβ- and smad4-induced fascin overexpression. when ectopically expressed in basal-like breast cancer cells  gata-3 abrogated tgfβ- and smad4-mediated overexpression of fascin and other tgfβ response genes  invadopodium formation  cell migration  and invasion  suggesting suppression of the canonical tgfβ-smad signaling axis. mechanistically  gata3 abrogated the canonical tgfβ-smad signaling by abolishing interactions between smad4 and its dna binding elements  potentially through physical interactions between the n-terminal of gata3 and smad3/4 proteins. our findings provide mechanistic insight into how tgfβ-mediated cell motility and invasiveness are differentially regulated in breast cancer.
3017,a new look at the origin  function  and "stem-cell" status of muscle satellite cells.,muscle satellite cells have long been considered a distinct myogenic lineage responsible for postnatal growth  repair  and maintenance of skeletal muscle. recent studies in mice  however  have revealed the potential for highly purified hematopoietic stem cells from bone marrow to participate in muscle regeneration. perhaps more significantly  a population of putative stem cells isolated directly from skeletal muscle efficiently reconstitutes the hematopoietic compartment and participates in muscle regeneration following intravenous injection in mice. the plasticity of muscle stem cells has raised important questions regarding the relationship between the muscle-derived stem cells and the skeletal muscle satellite cells. furthermore  the ability of hematopoietic cells to undergo myogenesis has prompted new investigations into the embryonic origin of satellite cells. recent developmental studies suggest that a population of satellite cells is derived from progenitors in the embryonic vasculature. taken together  these studies provide the first evidence that pluripotential stem cells are present within adult skeletal muscle. tissue-specific stem cells  including satellite cells  may share a common embryonic origin and possess the capacity to activate diverse genetic programs in response to environmental stimuli. manipulation of such tissue-specific stem cells may eventually revolutionize therapies for degenerative diseases  including muscular dystrophy.
3019,improving adherence to antiretroviral therapy with triggered real-time text message reminders: the china adherence through technology study.,background real-time adherence monitoring is now possible through medication storage devices equipped with cellular technology. we assessed the effect of triggered cell phone reminders and counseling using objective adherence data on antiretroviral therapy (art) adherence among chinese hiv-infected patients. methods we provided art patients in nanning  china  with a medication device (wisepill) to monitor their art adherence electronically. after 3 months  we randomized subjects within optimal (≥95%) and suboptimal (<95%) adherence strata to intervention vs. control arms. in months 4-9  intervention subjects received individualized reminders triggered by late dose taking (no device opening by 30 minutes past dose time) and counseling using device-generated data. controls received no reminders or data-informed counseling. we compared postintervention proportions achieving optimal adherence  mean adherence  and clinical outcomes. results of 120 subjects enrolled  116 (96.7%) completed the trial. preintervention optimal adherence was similar in intervention vs. control arms (63.5% vs. 58.9%  respectively; p = 0.60). in the last intervention month  87.3% vs. 51.8% achieved optimal adherence [risk ratio (rr): 1.7  95% confidence interval (ci): 1.3 to 2.2] and mean adherence was 96.2% vs. 89.1% (p = 0.003). among preintervention suboptimal adherers  78.3% vs. 33.3% (rr: 2.4  ci: 1.2 to 4.5) achieved optimal adherence and mean adherence was 93.3% vs. 84.7% (p = 0.039). proportions were 92.5% and 62.9% among optimal adherers  respectively (rr: 1.5  ci: 1.1 to 1.9) and mean adherence was 97.8% vs. 91.7% (p = 0.028). postintervention clinical outcomes were not significant. conclusions real-time reminders significantly improved art adherence in this population. this approach seems promising for managing hiv and other chronic diseases and warrants further investigation and adaptation in other settings.
3021,reproducibility of the diagnosis of atypical endometrial hyperplasia: a gynecologic oncology group study.,background most gynecologists determine therapy based on current international society of gynecologic pathologists (isgp)/world health organization classification of endometrial hyperplasia  the reproducibility of which has been questioned. the gynecologic oncology group (gog) initiated a protocol to assess the efficacy of hormonal therapy of atypical endometrial hyperplasia (aeh). primary goals of the first phase (part a) were to prospectively determine reproducibility of referring institution's pathologist's diagnosis of aeh by a panel of 3 gynecologic pathologists and to determine reproducibility of diagnoses by panel members. methods three hundred six women were entered on this protocol with a referring institution's pathologist diagnosis of aeh based on biopsy or curettage. available slides were assessed independently and interpreted by each of a panel of 3 gynecologic pathologists who used international society of gynecologic pathologists (isgp)/world health organization criteria. the majority diagnosis was based on diagnostic concordance by at least 2 of the 3 panelists. results the referring institution's pathologist's diagnosis of aeh was supported by the majority of the panel in only 38% of cases. overall kappa value for the panel diagnosis of aeh was 0.28. the majority diagnosis was adenocarcinoma in 29%  cycling endometrium in 7%  and nonatypical hyperplasia in 18% of cases. unanimous agreement for any diagnosis was reached among all 3 of the panel in 40% of cases. for the panel  paired kappa values for any diagnosis ranged 0.34-0.43  with an overall kappa value of 0.40. conclusion reproducibility of referring institution's pathologists' diagnosis of aeh by a panel of gynecologic pathologists is poor. both underestimation and overestimation of the severity of the lesion are very common. the level of reproducibility among subspecialist panel members for diagnosis of aeh in these specimens also is poor. better criteria and better sampling are needed to improve reproducibility of this diagnosis  particularly if it is to be used for clinical decisions.
3023,bed sharing when parents do not smoke: is there a risk of sids? an individual level analysis of five major case–control studies,objective to resolve uncertainty as to the risk of sudden infant death syndrome (sids) associated with sleeping in bed with your baby if neither parent smokes and the baby is breastfed. design bed sharing was defined as sleeping with a baby in the parents' bed; room sharing as baby sleeping in the parents' room. frequency of bed sharing during last sleep was compared between babies who died of sids and living control infants. five large sids case-control datasets were combined. missing data were imputed. random effects logistic regression controlled for confounding factors. setting home sleeping arrangements of infants in 19 studies across the uk  europe and australasia. participants 1472 sids cases  and 4679 controls. each study effectively included all cases  by standard criteria. controls were randomly selected normal infants of similar age  time and place. results in the combined dataset  22.2% of cases and 9.6% of controls were bed sharing  adjusted or (aor) for all ages 2.7; 95% ci (1.4 to 5.3). bed sharing risk decreased with increasing infant age. when neither parent smoked  and the baby was less than 3 months  breastfed and had no other risk factors  the aor for bed sharing versus room sharing was 5.1 (2.3 to 11.4) and estimated absolute risk for these room sharing infants was very low (0.08 (0.05 to 0.14)/1000 live-births). this increased to 0.23 (0.11 to 0.43)/1000 when bed sharing. smoking and alcohol use greatly increased bed sharing risk. conclusions bed sharing for sleep when the parents do not smoke or take alcohol or drugs increases the risk of sids. risks associated with bed sharing are greatly increased when combined with parental smoking  maternal alcohol consumption and/or drug use. a substantial reduction of sids rates could be achieved if parents avoided bed sharing.
3025,label-free dna imaging in vivo with stimulated raman scattering microscopy.,label-free dna imaging is highly desirable in biology and medicine to perform live imaging without affecting cell function and to obtain instant histological tissue examination during surgical procedures. here we show a label-free dna imaging method with stimulated raman scattering (srs) microscopy for visualization of the cell nuclei in live animals and intact fresh human tissues with subcellular resolution. relying on the distinct raman spectral features of the carbon-hydrogen bonds in dna  the distribution of dna is retrieved from the strong background of proteins and lipids by linear decomposition of srs images at three optimally selected raman shifts. based on changes on dna condensation in the nucleus  we were able to capture chromosome dynamics during cell division both in vitro and in vivo. we tracked mouse skin cell proliferation  induced by drug treatment  through in vivo counting of the mitotic rate. furthermore  we demonstrated a label-free histology method for human skin cancer diagnosis that provides comparable results to other conventional tissue staining methods such as h&e. our approach exhibits higher sensitivity than srs imaging of dna in the fingerprint spectral region. compared with spontaneous raman imaging of dna  our approach is three orders of magnitude faster  allowing both chromatin dynamic studies and label-free optical histology in real time.
3027,pathophysiology of obstructive nephropathy in the newborn.,congenital obstructive nephropathy is a consequence abnormal urinary tract development resulting in renal growth failure and injury manifested by progressive tubular atrophy and interstitial fibrosis. we have studied the renal cellular and physiological response to unilateral ureteral obstruction (uuo) in the neonatal rodent (guinea pig  rat  and mouse). whereas in the adult  uuo stimulates renal cellular proliferation  uuo in the neonate reduces nephrogenesis  glomerular maturation  and tubular cellular proliferation. this is accompanied by a proportionately greater compensatory growth of the intact opposite kidney in the neonate. impaired renal growth and tubular atrophy are likely owing at least in part to stimulation of renal tubular apoptosis. this  in turn  may result from a combination of factors  including loss of epithelial cell polarity  a reduction in the oncoprotein bcl-2 and epidermal growth factor (egf)  and increased expression of the fibrogenic cytokine  transforming growth factor-beta1 (tgf-beta1). infusion of egf stimulates cellular proliferation  suppresses apoptosis  and reduces tubular atrophy and interstitial fibrosis. tgf-beta1 is regulated by the renin-angiotensin system  which is markedly activated by uuo in the neonate. the functional consequences of obstructive nephropathy in early development are hyperfiltration by remaining nephrons  followed by progressive decrease in glomerular filtration rate that may only develop in later life. improved management of congenital urinary tract obstruction will depend on a better understanding of the cellular mechanisms  which may lead to specific treatment using gene therapy or modulators of renal growth and development.
3029,a twin-study of genetic contributions to morningness-eveningness and depression.,circadian rhythms are associated with the preference for sleep-wake timing  also known as morningness-eveningness (me). both circadian rhythms and me are influenced by genetic factors. studies show an association between eveningness and depression. this study investigates the heritability of me and whether me and depression share common genetic influences. study participants (n = 1237) were from the vietnam era twin study of aging  a longitudinal study of aging with a baseline in midlife. participants received the morningness-eveningness questionnaire (meq) and the center for epidemiologic studies depression (ces-d) scale as part of an extensive neurocognitive and psychosocial assessment. meq correlations between members of twin pairs were 0.41 (95% ci 0.31-0.49) for monozygotic (mz) twins and 0.28 for dizygotic (dz) twins (95% ci 0.19-0.41). ces-d correlations were 0.38 (95% ci 0.28-0.46) for mz twins and 0.24 (95% ci 0.14-0.36) for dz twins. greater eveningness (i.e. lower meq scores) was significantly related to more depression symptoms (phenotypic correlation = -0.15 (95% ci -0.21 to -0.09). in the best fitting model  the heritability estimates are 0.42 for the meq and 0.37 for the ces-d. a significant genetic correlation of -0.21 indicated that me and depression share a significant amount of their underlying genetic variance. the genetic covariance between me and depression accounted for 59.1% of the phenotypic correlation. of the ces-d sub-scales  depressed mood and interpersonal difficulties were significantly heritable  while only well-being had a significant genetic correlation with me. me and depression are both heritable (me 0.42  depression 0.37) and share common genetic factors  suggesting an overlap in etiology and the relevance of circadian rhythms to depression. further study of this relationship may help elucidate etiological factors in depression and targets for treatment.
3031,chimeric antigen receptor-redirected regulatory t cells suppress experimental allergic airway inflammation  a model of asthma,cellular therapy with chimeric antigen receptor (car)-redirected cytotoxic t cells has shown impressive efficacy in the treatment of hematologic malignancies. we explored a regulatory t cell (treg)-based therapy in the treatment of allergic airway inflammation  a model for asthma  which is characterized by an airway hyper-reactivity (ahr) and a chronic  t helper-2 (th2) cell-dominated immune response to allergen. to restore the immune balance in the lung  we redirected tregs by a car toward lung epithelia in mice upon experimentally induced allergic asthma  closely mimicking the clinical situation. adoptively transferred car tregs accumulated in the lung and in tracheobronchial lymph nodes  reduced ahr and diminished eosinophilic airway inflammation  indicated by lower cell numbers in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and decreased cell infiltrates in the lung. car treg cells furthermore prevented excessive pulmonary mucus production as well as increase in allergen-specific ige and th2 cytokine levels in exposed animals. car tregs were more efficient in controlling asthma than non-modified tregs  indicating the pivotal role of specific treg cell activation in the affected organ. data demonstrate that lung targeting car treg cells ameliorate key features of experimental airway inflammation  paving the way for cell therapy of severe allergic asthma.
3033,a population-based cohort study to elucidate temporal relationship between schizophrenia and metabolic syndrome (kcis no. psy3).,background the bidirectional relationships between metabolic syndrome (mets) and schizophrenia (scz) play a crucial role in clinical treatment of both diseases but such bidirectional causal effects have not been comprehensively elucidated. aims to investigate the influence of mets on incident scz and the opposite direction as well as their predictors for each direction with a population-based cohort sample. method we enrolled 76 545 subjects who had participated in a community-based health screening program during 1999-2004. after excluding those with the existing mets or scz at baseline  the two normal prospective cohorts corresponding to each independent variable of mets or scz  respectively  were followed over time to ascertain incident outcome of scz and mets. the crude and adjusted hazard ratios for the effect of the predictor on each incident outcome were estimated after controlling for the possible confounding factors. results the overall incidence rate (per 10(5)person-years) of scz was 61.15. the incidence rate in patients with mets was lower than those without (44.24 versus 64.20)  indicating the presence of mets failed to find an increased risk of developing incident scz. however  participants with abnormal waist circumference (wc) were two times (95% ci: 1.37 to 2.93) more likely to yield incident scz compared to those with normal wc. in the opposite direction  the incidence of mets was statistically higher in patients with scz than those without scz (11.25% vs 7.94%  respectively)  suggesting scz conferred a higher risk for yielding incident mets (adjusted hazard ratio=1.89  95% ci: 1.36  2.63). conclusions after examining the bidirectional causal relationships between scz and mets with the theoretically sound and large population-based prospective cohort study  central obesity  one of the individual components of mets  was corroborated as an independent predictor for incident scz. patients diagnosed with scz were at greater risk of having incident cases of mets. such significant temporal bidirectional relationships between scz and central obesity suggest a reciprocal interaction exits between scz and central obesity.
3035,cholesterol glucosylation promotes immune evasion by helicobacter pylori,helicobacter pylori infection causes gastric pathology such as ulcer and carcinoma. because h. pylori is auxotrophic for cholesterol  we have explored the assimilation of cholesterol by h. pylori in infection. here we show that h. pylori follows a cholesterol gradient and extracts the lipid from plasma membranes of epithelial cells for subsequent glucosylation. excessive cholesterol promotes phagocytosis of h. pylori by antigen-presenting cells  such as macrophages and dendritic cells  and enhances antigen-specific t cell responses. a cholesterol-rich diet during bacterial challenge leads to t cell–dependent reduction of the h. pylori burden in the stomach. intrinsic α-glucosylation of cholesterol abrogates phagocytosis of h. pylori and subsequent t cell activation. we identify the gene hp0421 as encoding the enzyme cholesterol-α-glucosyltransferase responsible for cholesterol glucosylation. generation of knockout mutants lacking hp0421 corroborates the importance of cholesteryl glucosides for escaping phagocytosis  t cell activation and bacterial clearance in vivo. thus  we propose a mechanism regulating the host–pathogen interaction whereby glucosylation of a lipid tips the scales towards immune evasion or response.
3037,health and access to care: perspectives of homeless youth in baltimore city  u.s.a.,homeless youth suffer from high rates of health problems  yet little is known about their perceptions of or context for their own health issues. in this study  a combination of qualitative techniques from participatory rural appraisal and rapid assessment procedures was used to investigate the perceptions of health needs of shelter-based youth in baltimore  md in the u.s.a. the most common youth-identified health problems included stds  hiv/aids  pregnancy  depression  drug use and injuries. these correlate well with more objective health status data for the same youth. the youth spoke of environmental safety threats of violence and victimization by adults  as well as racism and sexism in their lives. youth reported that trusted adult figures such as grandmothers are important sources of health advice. many homeless youth from less than ideal family situations remain in contact with and continue to seek advice from parents and other family members. health interventions with urban street youth need to acknowledge the primacy of the social context for these youth  as well as the reality of violence as a daily health threat.
3039,simian immunodeficiency viruses of diverse origin can use cxcr4 as a coreceptor for entry into human cells.,primary simian immunodeficiency virus (siv) isolated from sooty mangabey (sivsm [n = 6])  stumptail (sivstm [n = 1])  mandrill (sivmnd [n = 1])  and african green (sivagm [n = 1]) primates were examined for their ability to infect human cells and for their coreceptor requirements. all isolates infected human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (pbmcs) from a ccr5(+/+) donor  and seven of eight isolates tested also infected ccr5(-/-) pbmcs. analysis of coreceptor utilization using ghost and u87 cell lines revealed that all of the isolates tested used ccr5 and the orphan receptors strl33 and gpr15. coreceptors such as ccr2b  ccr3  ccr8  and cx3cr1 were also utilized by some primary siv isolates. more importantly  we found that cxcr4 was used as a coreceptor by the sivstm  the sivagm  and four of the sivsm isolates in ghost and u87 cells. these data suggest that primary siv isolates from diverse primate species can utilize cxcr4 for viral entry  similar to what has been described for human immunodeficiency viruses.
3041,a two-step mechanism for epigenetic specification of centromere identity and function,the basic determinant of chromosome inheritance  the centromere  is specified in many eukaryotes by an epigenetic mark. using gene targeting in human cells and fission yeast  chromatin containing the centromere-specific histone h3 variant cenp-a is demonstrated to be the epigenetic mark that acts through a two-step mechanism to identify  maintain and propagate centromere function indefinitely. initially  centromere position is replicated and maintained by chromatin assembled with the centromere-targeting domain (catd) of cenp-a substituted into h3. subsequently  nucleation of kinetochore assembly onto catd-containing chromatin is shown to require either the amino- or carboxy-terminal tail of cenp-a for recruitment of inner kinetochore proteins  including stabilizing cenp-b binding to human centromeres or direct recruitment of cenp-c  respectively.
3043,in vitro splicing pathways of pre-mrnas containing multiple intervening sequences?,we analyzed the in vitro splicing pathways of three multi-intervening-sequence (ivs) pre-mrnas: human beta-globin  which contains two ivss (k. m. lang  v. l. van santen  and r. a. spritz  embo j. 4:1991-1996  1985); rat alpha-lactalbumin  which contains three ivss; and murine interleukin-3  which contains four ivss. we found that there are highly preferred pathways of ivs removal from these multi-ivs pre-mrnas in vitro. the three ivss of rat alpha-lactalbumin pre-mrna were excised sequentially from 5' to 3'; in most molecules  ivs1 was removed first  followed by ivs2 and finally by ivs3. the splicing pathway of interleukin-3 pre-mrna in vitro was more complex. the four ivss were excised in a highly preferred temporal order  but the order was not strictly sequential or directional. in most molecules  ivs1 and ivs4 were removed first  either simultaneously or in rapid succession. subsequently  ivs2 was excised  followed by ivs3. the observed splicing pathways apparently resulted from differences in lag times and maximum excision rates of the different ivss. we detected no exon skipping during splicing of these transcripts in vitro. these observations have implication for proposed models of splice site selection.
3045,gapdh mediates nitrosylation of nuclear proteins,s-nitrosylation of proteins by nitric oxide is a major mode of signalling in cells. s-nitrosylation can mediate the regulation of a range of proteins  including prominent nuclear proteins  such as hdac2 (ref. 2) and parp1 (ref. 3). the high reactivity of the nitric oxide group with protein thiols  but the selective nature of nitrosylation within the cell  implies the existence of targeting mechanisms. specificity of nitric oxide signalling is often achieved by the binding of nitric oxide synthase (nos) to target proteins  either directly or through scaffolding proteins such as psd-95 (ref. 5) and capon. as the three principal isoforms of nos--neuronal nos (nnos)  endothelial nos (enos) and inducible nos (inos)--are primarily non-nuclear  the mechanisms by which nuclear proteins are selectively nitrosylated have been elusive. glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (gapdh) is physiologically nitrosylated at its cys 150 residue. nitrosylated gapdh (sno-gapdh) binds to siah1  which possesses a nuclear localization signal  and is transported to the nucleus. here  we show that sno-gapdh physiologically transnitrosylates nuclear proteins  including the deacetylating enzyme sirtuin-1 (sirt1)  histone deacetylase-2 (hdac2) and dna-activated protein kinase (dna-pk). our findings reveal a novel mechanism for targeted nitrosylation of nuclear proteins and suggest that protein-protein transfer of nitric oxide groups may be a general mechanism in cellular signal transduction.
3047,genome-wide association of il28b with response to pegylated interferon-α and ribavirin therapy for chronic hepatitis c,the recommended treatment for patients with chronic hepatitis c  pegylated interferon-α (peg-ifn-α) plus ribavirin (rbv)  does not provide sustained virologic response (svr) in all patients. we report a genome-wide association study (gwas) to null virological response (nvr) in the treatment of patients with hepatitis c virus (hcv) genotype 1 within a japanese population. we found two snps near the gene il28b on chromosome 19 to be strongly associated with nvr (rs12980275  p = 1.93 × 10−13  and rs8099917  3.11 × 10−15). we replicated these associations in an independent cohort (combined p values  2.84 × 10−27 (or = 17.7; 95% ci = 10.0–31.3) and 2.68 × 10−32 (or = 27.1; 95% ci = 14.6–50.3)  respectively). compared to nvr  these snps were also associated with svr (rs12980275  p = 3.99 × 10−24  and rs8099917  p = 1.11 × 10−27). in further fine mapping of the region  seven snps (rs8105790  rs11881222  rs8103142  rs28416813  rs4803219  rs8099917 and rs7248668) located in the il28b region showed the most significant associations (p = 5.52 × 10−28–2.68 × 10−32; or = 22.3–27.1). real-time quantitative pcr assays in peripheral blood mononuclear cells showed lower il28b expression levels in individuals carrying the minor alleles (p = 0.015).
3049,inducible depletion of satellite cells in adult  sedentary mice impairs muscle regenerative capacity without affecting sarcopenia,a key determinant of geriatric frailty is sarcopenia  the age-associated loss of skeletal muscle mass and strength. although the etiology of sarcopenia is unknown  the correlation during aging between the loss of activity of satellite cells  which are endogenous muscle stem cells  and impaired muscle regenerative capacity has led to the hypothesis that the loss of satellite cell activity is also a cause of sarcopenia. we tested this hypothesis in male sedentary mice by experimentally depleting satellite cells in young adult animals to a degree sufficient to impair regeneration throughout the rest of their lives. a detailed analysis of multiple muscles harvested at various time points during aging in different cohorts of these mice showed that the muscles were of normal size  despite low regenerative capacity  but did have increased fibrosis. these results suggest that lifelong reduction of satellite cells neither accelerated nor exacerbated sarcopenia and that satellite cells did not contribute to the maintenance of muscle size or fiber type composition during aging  but that their loss may contribute to age-related muscle fibrosis.
3051,the acf1 complex is required for dna double-strand break repair in human cells.,dna double-strand breaks (dsbs) are repaired via nonhomologous end-joining (nhej) or homologous recombination (hr)  but cellular repair processes remain elusive. we show here that the atp-dependent chromatin-remodeling factors  acf1 and snf2h  accumulate rapidly at dsbs and are required for dsb repair in human cells. if the expression of acf1 or snf2h is suppressed  cells become extremely sensitive to x-rays and chemical treatments producing dsbs  and dsbs remain unrepaired. acf1 interacts directly with ku70 and is required for the accumulation of ku proteins at dsbs. the ku70/80 complex becomes physically more associated with the chromatin-remodeling factors of the chrac complex  which includes acf1  snf2h  chrac15  and chrac17  after treatments producing dsbs. furthermore  the frequency of nhej as well as hr induced by dsbs in chromosomal dna is significantly decreased in cells depleted of either of these factors. thus  acf1 and its complexes play important roles in dsbs repair.
3053,marine organisms as a source of new anticancer agents.,various active anticancer agents are derived from plants and terrestrial microorganisms. the isolation of c-nucleosides from the caribbean sponge  cryptotheca crypta  four decades ago  provided the basis for the synthesis of cytarabine  the first marine-derived anticancer agent to be developed for clinical use. cytarabine is currently used in the routine treatment of patients with leukaemia and lymphoma. gemcitabine  one of its fluorinated derivatives  has also been approved for use in patients with pancreatic  breast  bladder  and non-small-cell lung cancer. over the past decade  several new experimental anticancer agents derived from marine sources have entered preclinical and clinical trials. this field has expanded significantly as a result of improvements in the technology of deep-sea collection  extraction  and large-scale production through aquaculture and synthesis. in this paper  examples of marine-derived experimental agents that are currently undergoing preclinical and early clinical evaluation are briefly discussed. a summary of the available information on the results of phase i and ii trials of agents such as aplidine  ecteinascidin-734 (et-734)  dolastatin 10 and bryostatin 1 is also presented.
3055,intracellular coenzymes as natural biomarkers for metabolic activities and mitochondrial anomalies.,mitochondria play a pivotal role in energy metabolism  programmed cell death and oxidative stress. mutated mitochondrial dna in diseased cells compromises the structure of key enzyme complexes and  therefore  mitochondrial function  which leads to a myriad of health-related conditions such as cancer  neurodegenerative diseases  diabetes and aging. early detection of mitochondrial and metabolic anomalies is an essential step towards effective diagnoses and therapeutic intervention. reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (nadh) and flavin adenine dinucleotide (fad) play important roles in a wide range of cellular oxidation-reduction reactions. importantly  nadh and fad are naturally fluorescent  which allows noninvasive imaging of metabolic activities of living cells and tissues. furthermore  nadh and fad autofluorescence  which can be excited using distinct wavelengths for complementary imaging methods and is sensitive to protein binding and local environment. this article highlights recent developments concerning intracellular nadh and fad as potential biomarkers for metabolic and mitochondrial activities.
3057,circulating mitochondrial dna in serum of patients with granulomatosis with polyangiitis.,neutrophil is a key cell in pathophysiology of granulomatosis with polyangiitis. recently  neutrophil extracellular traps were described in this disease. mitochondrial dna is also released during traps formation. we measured circulating cell-free mitochondrial and genomic dna in serum of patients with granulomatosis with polyangiitis. subjects with the disease (14 active and 11 in remission stage) and 10 healthy controls were enrolled. quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (pcr) was used to measure 79 base pairs (bp) and 230 bp mtdna fragments. alu repeats were quantified to evaluate abundance of nuclear dna in serum at the presence of plasmid control. both fragments of mtdna (79 bp and 230 bp) and genomic dna were elevated significantly in granulomatosis with polyangiitis compared to controls. only the shorter 79 bp mtdna correlated with active stage of granulomatosis with polyangiitis and clinical symptoms. a mechanism of extracellular release of mitochondrial dna accompanies the active stage of the disease. circulating mtdna is extremely high in untreated patients. this suggests that biomarker properties of mtdna are useful for monitoring of treatment.
3059,disturbance in cerebral spinal fluid sphingolipid content is associated with memory impairment in subjects infected with the human immunodeficiency virus,despite widespread use of antiretroviral therapies to control replication of the human immunodeficiency virus (hiv)  dysfunctions of cognition that are collectively termed hiv-associated neurocognitive disorders (hand) still occur in approximately 50% of those infected by the virus. currently there is not a biomarker that can identify hiv-infected people who are at risk for the development of hand. previous studies have identified particular sphingolipid species that are dysregulated in hand  but the neurocognitive correlates of these biochemical findings are not currently understood. to address this question  we compared cerebrospinal fluid (csf) levels of sphingomyelin  ceramide  and sterol species with performance on standard neurological tests designed to assess the function of multiple cognitive and motor domains in hiv-infected subjects. we found that sphingomyelin:ceramide ratios for acyl chain lengths of c16∶0  c18∶0  c22∶0  and c24∶0 were associated with worse performance on several indices of memory. the most striking finding was for the acyl chain of c18∶0 that consistently associatedwith performance onmultiple tests of memory. these findings suggest that the sphingomyelin:ceramide ratio for c18∶0 may be a reasonable surrogate marker for memory dysfunction in hiv-infected subjects.
3061,prison health care: a review of the literature.,the prison population is increasing and the health problems of prisoners are considerable. prison is designed with punishment  correction and rehabilitation to the community in mind and these goals may conflict with the aims of health care. a literature review showed that the main issues in prison health care are mental health  substance abuse and communicable diseases. women prisoners and older prisoners have needs which are distinct from other prisoners. health promotion and the health of the community outside prisons are desirable aims of prison health care. the delivery of effective health care to prisoners is dependent upon partnership between health and prison services and telemedicine is one possible mode of delivery.
3063,tumor-induced il-6 reprograms host metabolism to suppress anti-tumor immunity,in patients with cancer  the wasting syndrome  cachexia  is associated with caloric deficiency. here  we describe tumor-induced alterations of the host metabolic response to caloric deficiency that cause intratumoral immune suppression. in pre-cachectic mice with transplanted colorectal cancer or autochthonous pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (pda)  we find that il-6 reduces the hepatic ketogenic potential through suppression of pparalpha  the transcriptional master regulator of ketogenesis. when these mice are challenged with caloric deficiency  the resulting relative hypoketonemia triggers a marked rise in glucocorticoid levels. multiple intratumoral immune pathways are suppressed by this hormonal stress response. moreover  administering corticosterone to elevate plasma corticosterone to a level that is lower than that occurring in cachectic mice abolishes the response of mouse pda to an immunotherapy that has advanced to clinical trials. therefore  tumor-induced il-6 impairs the ketogenic response to reduced caloric intake  resulting in a systemic metabolic stress response that blocks anti-cancer immunotherapy.
3065,how much alcohol and how often? population based case-control study of alcohol consumption and risk of a major coronary event.,objective to quantify the effects of quantity and frequency of alcohol consumption on risk of acute myocardial infarction and coronary death. design case-control study. setting lower hunter region of new south wales  australia  1983-94. subjects men and women aged 35-69 years. main outcome measure acute myocardial infarction or coronary death. results alcohol consumption patterns were compared between 11 511 cases of acute myocardial infarction or coronary death and 6077 controls randomly selected from the same study population. after adjusting for the effects of age  smoking  and medical history  men and women who consumed one or two drinks of alcohol on five or six days a week had a reduction in risk of a major coronary event compared with men and women who were non-drinkers (odds ratios: men 0.31 (95% confidence interval 0.22 to 0.45); women 0.33 (0.18 to 0.59)). a similar reduction in risk was found after excluding non-drinkers who were formerly moderate to heavy drinkers. an acute protective effect of alcohol consumption was also found for regular drinkers who consumed one or two drinks in the 24 hours preceding the onset of symptoms (odds ratios: men 0.74 (0.51 to 1.09); women 0.43 (0.20 to 0.95)). conclusions frequency and quantity of alcohol consumption are important in assessing the risk of a major coronary event. risk is lowest among men who report one to four drinks daily on five or six days a week and among women who report one or two drinks daily on five or six days a week.
3067,blockade of adrenoreceptors inhibits the splenic response to stroke.,recent studies have highlighted the involvement of the peripheral immune system in delayed cellular degeneration after stroke. in the permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (mcao) model of stroke  the spleen decreases in size. this reduction occurs through the release of splenic immune cells. systemic treatment with human umbilical cord blood cells (hucbc) 24 h post-stroke blocks the reduction in spleen size while significantly reducing infarct volume. splenectomy 2 weeks prior to mcao also reduces infarct volume  further demonstrating the detrimental role of this organ in stroke-induced neurodegeneration. activation of the sympathetic nervous system after mcao results in elevated catecholamine levels both at the level of the spleen  through direct splenic innervation  and throughout the systemic circulation upon release from the adrenal medulla. these catecholamines bind to splenic alpha and beta adrenoreceptors. this study examines whether catecholamines regulate the splenic response to stroke. male sprague-dawley rats either underwent splenic denervation 2 weeks prior to mcao or received injections of carvedilol  a pan adrenergic receptor blocker  prazosin  an alpha1 receptor blocker  or propranolol  a beta receptor blocker. denervation was confirmed by reduced splenic expression of tyrosine hydroxylase. denervation prior to mcao did not alter infarct volume or spleen size. propranolol treatment also had no effects on these outcomes. treatment with either prazosin or carvedilol prevented the reduction in spleen size  yet only carvedilol significantly reduced infarct volume (p < 0.05). these results demonstrate that circulating blood borne catecholamines regulate the splenic response to stroke through the activation of both alpha and beta adrenergic receptors.
3069,crosstalk between tumor and endothelial cells promotes tumor angiogenesis by mapk activation of notch signaling.,while significant progress has been made in understanding the induction of tumor vasculature by secreted angiogenic factors  little is known regarding contact-dependent signals that promote tumor angiogenesis. here  we report that the notch ligand jagged1 induced by growth factors via mitogen-activating protein kinase (mapk) in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (hnscc) cells triggered notch activation in neighboring endothelial cells (ecs) and promoted capillary-like sprout formation. jagged1-expressing hnscc cells significantly enhanced neovascularization and tumor growth in vivo. moreover  the level of jagged1 was significantly correlated with tumor blood vessel content and associated with hnscc development. our results elucidate a novel mechanism by which the direct interplay between tumor cells and ecs promotes angiogenesis through mapk and notch signaling pathways.
3071,melatonin and the circadian regulation of sleep initiation  consolidation  structure  and the sleep eeg.,the endogenous circadian rhythm of melatonin  driven by the suprachiasmatic nucleus  exhibits a close association with the endogenous circadian component of the sleep propensity rhythm and the endogenous circadian component of the variation in electroencephalogram (eeg) oscillations such as sleep spindles and slow waves. this association is maintained even when the sleep-wake cycle is desynchronized from the endogenous circadian rhythm of melatonin. administration of melatonin during the day increases daytime sleep propensity as indexed by both the latency to sleep onset and sleep consolidation. the eeg during daytime sleep after melatonin administration exhibits characteristics reminiscent of the nocturnal sleep eeg  that is  increased sleep spindle activity and reduced slow-wave sleep and slow-wave activity  as detected by quantitative eeg analysis. administration of higher doses of melatonin (5 mg or more) prior to nocturnal sleep results in an increase in rapid eye movement (rem) sleep. these data demonstrate that melatonin exerts effects on the main characteristics of human sleep  that is  latency to sleep onset  sleep consolidation  slow waves  sleep spindles  and rem sleep. there is a need for further studies using physiological doses and delivery systems that generate physiological plasma melatonin profiles to firmly establish the role of the endogenous circadian rhythm of melatonin in the circadian regulation of sleep.
3073,recent developments and complexities in neutrophil transmigration.,purpose of review as the migration of neutrophils from blood to inflamed tissues is an essential component of innate immunity and a key contributing factor to the pathogenesis of inflammatory disorders  this aspect of leukocyte biology continues to be a highly dynamic field of research. this review summarizes recent findings in this area  focusing on the mechanisms that mediate neutrophil transmigration  an area where significant progress has been made. recent findings the topics to be covered will include responses that are prerequisite to neutrophil migration through venular walls  such as leukocyte luminal crawling and cellular and molecular changes in leukocytes and endothelial cells (e.g. formation of protrusions) that collectively support leukocyte transendothelial cell migration. advances in both paracellular and transcellular neutrophil migration through endothelial cells will be discussed  addressing the associated roles and regulation of expression of endothelial cell luminal and junctional adhesion molecules. beyond the endothelium  migration through the vascular pericyte coverage and basement membrane will be reviewed. summary the unquestionable role of neutrophils in the development and progression of inflammatory conditions suggests that a better understanding of the tissue-specific and stimulus-specific mechanisms that mediate this response may identify novel pathways that could be exploited for the development of more specific anti-inflammatory interventions.
3075,alkylating agent melphalan augments the efficacy of adoptive immunotherapy using tumor-specific cd4+ t cells.,in recent years  the immune-potentiating effects of some widely used chemotherapeutic agents have been increasingly appreciated. this provides a rationale for combining conventional chemotherapy with immunotherapy strategies to achieve durable therapeutic benefits. previous studies have implicated the immunomodulatory effects of melphalan  an alkylating agent commonly used to treat multiple myeloma  but the underlying mechanisms remain obscure. in the present study  we investigated the impact of melphalan on endogenous immune cells as well as adoptively transferred tumor-specific cd4(+) t cells in tumor-bearing mice. we showed that melphalan treatment resulted in a rapid burst of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines during the cellular recovery phase after melphalan-induced myelodepletion and leukodepletion. after melphalan treatment  tumor cells exhibited characteristics of immunogenic cell death  including membrane translocation of the endoplasmic reticulum-resident calreticulin and extracellular release of high-mobility group box 1. additionally  there was enhanced tumor ag uptake by dendritic cells in the tumor-draining lymph node. consistent with these immunomodulatory effects  melphalan treatment of tumor-bearing mice led to the activation of the endogenous cd8(+) t cells and  more importantly  effectively drove the clonal expansion and effector differentiation of adoptively transferred tumor-specific cd4(+) t cells. notably  the combination of melphalan and cd4(+) t cell adoptive cell therapy was more efficacious than either treatment alone in prolonging the survival of mice with advanced b cell lymphomas or colorectal tumors. these findings provide mechanistic insights into melphalan's immunostimulatory effects and demonstrate the therapeutic potential of combining melphalan with adoptive cell therapy utilizing antitumor cd4(+) t cells.
3077,hitting the target: emerging technologies in the search for kinase substrates.,through phosphorylation  protein kinases can alter the activity  localization  protein association  and stability of their targets. despite the importance to our understanding of all aspects of cell biology  progress toward identifying bona fide substrates of specific protein kinases has been slow. traditionally used techniques to identify true kinase substrates  such as genetics  yeast two-hybrid screens  and biochemical purification  are often laborious and unreliable. however  several new approaches have recently been developed and used successfully to identify genuine in vivo substrates of certain protein kinases. these methods include screening for phosphorylation of proteins from phage expression libraries  peptide library screens to determine optimal motifs favored by specific kinases  the use of phospho-motif antibodies  and an approach that uses structurally altered kinases and allele-specific adenosine triphosphate analogs and kinase inhibitors. we describe these approaches and discuss their utility and inherent caveats.
3079,neurodevelopmental outcome after a single course of antenatal steroids in children born preterm: a systematic review and meta-analysis.,objective to systematically review and integrate data on the neurodevelopmental outcome of children after administration of a single course of antenatal corticosteroids for threatened preterm labor. data sources medline  scopus  central  and www.clinicaltrials.gov (inception to august 2014) using combinations of the terms "prenatal " "antenatal " "cortico* " "*steroid* " "betamethasone " "dexamethasone " "neurodevelopment* " "*development* " and "follow-up. " we perused the references of the retrieved articles. methods of study selection we included randomized and nonrandomized trials reporting on the neurodevelopmental outcomes of children whose mothers were administered a single course of betamethasone or dexamethasone antenatally for threatened preterm birth as opposed to placebo or no treatment. tabulation  integration  and results summary risk ratio (rr) was calculated for dichotomous data; standardized mean difference was calculated for trials that measured the same outcome but used different methods. heterogeneity was assessed using the i statistic. sensitivity and subgroup analyses were planned according to study design  specific steroid  and mean gestational age at birth. a single course of antenatal corticosteroids was associated with reduced risk for cerebral palsy (seven studies; treated: 390 of 5 199  untreated: 146 of 1 379; rr 0.678  95% confidence interval [ci] 0.564-0.815)  psychomotor development index less than 70 (two studies; treated: 783 of 3 049  untreated: 258 of 969; rr 0.829  95% ci 0.737-0.933)  and severe disability (five studies; treated: 1 567 of 4 840  untreated: 475 of 1 211; rr 0.787  95% ci 0.729-0.850). steroid treatment increased the rates of intact survival (six studies; treated: 1 082 of 2 013  untreated: 273 of 561; rr 1.186  95% ci 1.056-1.332). betamethasone was found to significantly decrease the risk for severe disability and increase the rate of intact survival. dexamethasone increased the rate of intact survival; however  data for dexametasone and the other planned subgroup analyses were limited (fewer than 1 000 children at most). the major limitations involved inclusion of nonrandomized studies and scarcity of data on finer neurodevelopmental outcomes. conclusion a single course of antenatal corticosteroids in women at high risk for preterm birth appears to improve most neurodevelopmental outcomes in offspring born before 34 weeks of gestation.
3081,fusion proteins for versatile antigen targeting to cell surface receptors reveal differential capacity to prime immune responses.,targeting of proteins to apcs is an attractive strategy for eliciting adaptive immune responses. however  the relationship between the choice of the targeted receptor and the quality and quantity of responses remains poorly understood. we describe a strategy for expression of ags including hydrophobic proteins as soluble fusion proteins that are optimized for proteasome-dependent mhc class i-restricted cross-presentation and form stable complexes with a wide variety of targeting abs. upon s.c. immunization  these complexes were initially taken up by cd169+ lymph node subcapsular sinus macrophages. in the ova model system  receptor-targeted antigenic complexes primed specific t and b cell responses in vitro and in vivo at least 100-fold more efficiently than ag alone. comparison of 10 targeting receptors allowed us to establish a ranking with respect to priming of cd8+ t cell responses and demonstrated striking differences with respect to the relative efficacy of cd8+ and cd4+ t cell subset and b cell priming. the described fusion proteins should help in developing optimized strategies for targeted delivery of protein ags in the context of tolerization or vaccination.
3083,outcome of repeated radiosurgery for recurrent metastatic brain tumors.,objective we investigated the outcome of repeated gamma knife radiosurgery (gks) for local or remote recurrence after initial radiosurgery. material and methods we retrospectively reviewed 204 patients who were treated with gks. among them 43 patients (21%) underwent gks more than once. the second gks was given for recurrence at the previously treated sites in 16 patients  new lesions at remote sites in 13  and both local recurrence and new lesions in 14. results the median survival from the first gks was 36 (7-190) weeks in all patients and 68 (16-156) weeks in 43 patients with repeated gks. the median time from the first gks to the second was 37 weeks. the median survival from the second radiosurgical intervention was 32 (7-132) weeks. local control rate at 6 months after salvage gks was 90.7%. rpa class was the commonly dominant prognostic factor in both initial and salvage gks. conclusion recurrence is common for patients with metastatic brain tumors after initial radiosurgery. local control and survival time after salvage treatment are comparable with those after initial radiosurgery. gks as a salvage treatment may provide additional survival benefit in selected patients.
3085,metabolism of glucose  glutamine  long-chain fatty acids and ketone bodies by murine macrophages.,maximum activities of some key enzymes of metabolism were studied in elicited (inflammatory) macrophages of the mouse and lymph-node lymphocytes of the rat. the activity of hexokinase in the macrophage is very high  as high as that in any other major tissue of the body  and higher than that of phosphorylase or 6-phosphofructokinase  suggesting that glucose is a more important fuel than glycogen and that the pentose phosphate pathway is also important in these cells. the latter suggestion is supported by the high activities of both glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase and 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase. however  the rate of glucose utilization by 'resting' macrophages incubated in vitro is less than the 10% of the activity of 6-phosphofructokinase: this suggests that the rate of glycolysis is increased dramatically during phagocytosis or increased secretory activity. the macrophages possess higher activities of citrate synthase and oxoglutarate dehydrogenase than do lymphocytes  suggesting that the tricarboxylic acid cycle may be important in energy generation in these cells. the activity of 3-oxoacid coa-transferase is higher in the macrophage  but that of 3-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase is very much lower than those in the lymphocytes. the activity of carnitine palmitoyltransferase is higher in macrophages  suggesting that fatty acids as well as acetoacetate could provide acetyl-coa as substrate for the tricarboxylic acid cycle. no detectable rate of acetoacetate or 3-hydroxybutyrate utilization was observed during incubation of resting macrophages  but that of oleate was 1.0 nmol/h per mg of protein or about 2.2% of the activity of palmitoyltransferase. the activity of glutaminase is about 4-fold higher in macrophages than in lymphocytes  which suggests that the rate of glutamine utilization could be very high. the rate of utilization of glutamine by resting incubated macrophages was similar to that reported for rat lymphocytes  but was considerably lower than the activity of glutaminase.
3087,human nk cells in acute myeloid leukaemia patients: analysis of nk cell-activating receptors and their ligands,natural killer (nk) cell activation is strictly regulated to ensure that healthy cells are preserved  but tumour-transformed or virus-infected cells are recognized and eliminated. to carry out this selective killing  nk cells have an ample repertoire of receptors on their surface. signalling by inhibitory and activating receptors by interaction with their ligands will determine whether the nk cell becomes activated and kills the target cell. here  we show reduced expression of nkp46  nkp30  dnam-1  cd244 and cd94/nkg2c activating receptors on nk cells from acute myeloid leukaemia patients. this reduction may be induced by chronic exposure to their ligands on leukaemic blasts. the analysis of ligands for nk cell-activating receptors showed that leukaemic blasts from the majority of patients express ligands for nk cell-activating receptors. dnam-1 ligands are frequently expressed on blasts  whereas the expression of the nkg2d ligand mica/b is found in half of the patients and cd48  a ligand for cd244  in only one-fourth of the patients. the decreased expression of nk cell-activating receptors and/or the heterogeneous expression of ligands for major receptors on leukaemic blasts can lead to an inadequate tumour immunosurveillance by nk cells. a better knowledge of the activating receptor repertoire on nk cells and their putative ligands on blasts together with the possibility to modulate their expression will open new possibilities for the use of nk cells in immunotherapy against leukaemia.
3089,symptoms of hypoglycemia in children with iddm.,objective to examine the symptoms of hypoglycemia in children with insulin-dependent diabetes  from the perspective both of the child and of the child's parents  and to compare the symptom reporting of the diabetic children with that of adult diabetic patients. research design and methods interviews were conducted with 100 parents and 43 of their children. the frequency and intensity of symptoms of hypoglycemia were documented using a structured interview and classified into groups using principal components analysis (pca). results diabetic children and their parents showed close agreement concerning the relative frequency and the intensity of symptoms reported. pca of the symptom reports showed that diabetic children and their parents identified the same distinct subgroups of hypoglycemia-related symptoms: behavioral disturbance and autonomic-neuroglycopenic subgroups. conclusions hypoglycemic symptoms in children with diabetes clearly differ from those experienced by insulin-treated adults and  in particular  include behavioral changes as primary features of a low blood glucose. these observations have important implications for parental education on hypoglycemia.
3091,il-6 as a keystone cytokine in health and disease,interleukin 6 (il-6) has a broad effect on cells of the immune system and those not of the immune system and often displays hormone-like characteristics that affect homeostatic processes. il-6 has context-dependent pro- and anti-inflammatory properties and is now regarded as a prominent target for clinical intervention. however  the signaling cassette that controls the activity of il-6 is complicated  and distinct intervention strategies can inhibit this pathway. clinical experience with antagonists of il-6 has raised new questions about how and when to block this cytokine to improve disease outcome and patient wellbeing. here we discuss the effect of il-6 on innate and adaptive immunity and the possible advantages of various antagonists of il-6 and consider how the immunobiology of il-6 may inform clinical decisions.
3093,chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and neutrophil infiltration: role of cigarette smoke and cyclooxygenase products.,cigarette smoke is the main cause of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd)  where it can contribute to the observed airway inflammation. pge(2) is produced within human airways  and both pro- and anti-inflammatory activities have been reported. we quantitated pge(2) concentrations in induced sputum supernatants from different groups of subjects and correlated the obtained values to neutrophil infiltration as well as to the expression of cyclooxygenase-2 (cox-2). cigarette smoke extract (cse) was used to evaluate the effect of smoking on cox-2 and pge(2) receptor expression as well as on pge(2) release in neutrophils and alveolar macrophages (am) obtained from normal donors. the effects of pge(2) and of pge receptor agonists and antagonists were evaluated on the adhesion of neutrophil to a human bronchial epithelial cell line (16hbe). pge(2) levels  cox-2 expression  and neutrophil infiltration were significantly higher in normal smokers and copd smokers (p < 0.0001) compared with controls and copd former smokers. induced sputum supernatant caused neutrophil adhesion to 16hbe that was significantly reduced  in copd smokers only  by pge(2) immunoprecipitation. in vitro experiments confirmed that cse increased pge(2) release and cox-2 and pge(2) receptor expression in neutrophils and am; pge(2) enhanced the adhesion of neutrophils to 16hbe  and a specific e-prostanoid 4 (ep(4)) receptor antagonist blunted its effect. these results suggest that cse promote the induction of cox-2 and contributes to the proinflammatory effects of pge(2) in the airways of copd subjects.
3095,no pasaran! role of the axon initial segment in the regulation of protein transport and the maintenance of axonal identity.,the transmission of information in the brain depends on the highly polarized architecture of neurons. a number of cellular transport processes support this organization  including active targeting of proteins and passive corralling between compartments. the axon initial segment (ais)  which separates the somatodendritic and axonal compartments  has a key role in neuronal physiology  as both the initiation site of action potentials and the gatekeeper of the axonal arborization. over the years  the ais main components and their interactions have been progressively unraveled  as well as their role in the ais assembly and maintenance. two mechanisms have been shown to contribute to the regulation of protein transport at the ais: a surface diffusion barrier and an intracellular traffic filter. however  a molecular understanding of these processes is still lacking. in the view of recent results on the ais cytoskeleton structure  we will discuss how a better knowledge of the ais architecture can help understanding its role in the regulation of protein transport and the maintenance of axonal identity.
3097,natural history of adult t-cell leukemia/lymphoma and approaches to therapy,after cell-to-cell transmission  htlv-i increases its viral genome by de novo infection and proliferation of infected cells. proliferation of infected cells is clonal and persistent in vivo. during the carrier state  infected cells are selected in vivo by the host's immune system  the genetic and epigenetic environment of proviral integration sites  and other factors. in leukemic cells  tax gene expression is frequently impaired by genetic and epigenetic mechanisms. such loss of tax expression enables atl cells to escape the host immune system. on the other hand  atl cells acquire the ability to proliferate without tax by intracellular genetic and epigenetic changes. despite advances in support and the development of novel treatment agents  the prognosis for atll remains poor. a number of therapies  however  do appear to improve prognosis compared to chop (vepa). these include interferon-α plus zidovudine (probably after 1–2 cycles of chop)  intensive chemotherapy as in lsg-15 with g-csf support and allo-sct (which includes the potential for cure). emerging novel approaches include hdac inhibitors  monoclonal antibodies  and proteasome inhibitors. comparison between different therapeutic approaches is complicated by the range of natural history of atll  different recruitments of naïve-to-therapy  refractory or relapsed patients  and variations in the reporting of outcome that frequently excludes difficult-to-evaluate patients. moreover  results from relatively small proof-of-principle studies have not been extended with randomized  controlled trials. as a result  currently  there is no clear evidence to support the value of any particular treatment approach over others. to avoid further unnecessary patient suffering and to identify optimal therapy as rapidly as possible  large randomized  controlled trials encompassing multicenter  international collaborations will be necessary.
3099,stability of the antimalarial drug dihydroartemisinin under physiologically relevant conditions: implications for clinical treatment and pharmacokinetic and in vitro assays.,artemisinins are peroxidic antimalarial drugs known to be very potent but highly chemically unstable; they degrade in the presence of ferrous iron  fe(ii)-heme  or biological reductants. less documented is how this translates into chemical stability and antimalarial activity across a range of conditions applying to in vitro testing and clinical situations. dihydroartemisinin (dha) is studied here because it is an antimalarial drug on its own and the main metabolite of other artemisinins. the behaviors of dha in phosphate-buffered saline  plasma  or erythrocyte lysate at different temperatures and ph ranges were examined. the antimalarial activity of the residual drug was evaluated using the chemosensitivity assay on plasmodium falciparum  and the extent of decomposition of dha was established through use of high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection analysis. the role of the fe(ii)-heme was investigated by blocking its reactivity using carbon monoxide (co). a significant reduction in the antimalarial activity of dha was seen after incubation in plasma and to a lesser extent in erythrocyte lysate. activity was reduced by half after 3 h and almost completely abolished after 24 h. serum-enriched media also affected dha activity. effects were temperature and ph dependent and paralleled the increased rate of decomposition of dha from ph 7 upwards and in plasma. these results suggest that particular care should be taken in conducting and interpreting in vitro studies  prone as their results are to experimental and drug storage conditions. disorders such as fever  hemolysis  or acidosis associated with malaria severity may contribute to artemisinin instability and reduce their clinical efficacy.
3101,familial clustering of reflux symptoms,objective:a number of case reports describe multiple family members with gastroesophageal reflux disease and barrett's esophagus. the wider importance of familial factors in gastroesophageal reflux disease has not been established. therefore  we have studied the prevalence of reflux symptoms and medication use among relatives of patients with documented gastroesophageal reflux disease. methods:a postal questionnaire study of the first degree relatives of six groups of matched patients. the groups comprised patients with 1) no dyspeptic symptoms; 2) reflux symptoms and a normal ph study; 3) reflux symptoms  an abnormal ph study  and a lower esophageal sphincter (los) pressure more than 10 mm hg; 4) reflux symptoms  an abnormal ph study  and a los pressure less than 10 mm hg; 5) barrett's esophagus; and 6) peptic stricture. results:four hundred eighteen subjects replied (78% response). infrequent reflux symptoms were equally common in all groups of relatives. frequent reflux symptoms  however  were more common among relatives of patients with an abnormal ph study and normal (26%  p= 0.007) or low los pressure (27%  p= 0.01) or barrett's esophagus (30%  p= 0.003)  compared with relatives of nondyspeptic patients (9%). frequent reflux symptoms were no more common among relatives of patients with a normal ph study (16%) or peptic stricture (18%). reflux medication use showed a similar pattern. conclusions:familial clustering of reflux symptoms is seen in relatives of patients with reflux symptoms and increased esophageal acid exposure and in relatives of patients with barrett's esophagus.
3103,specificity of the drp/ap lyase of ku promotes nonhomologous end joining (nhej) fidelity at damaged ends.,nonhomologous end joining (nhej) is essential for efficient repair of chromosome breaks. however  the nhej ligation step is often obstructed by break-associated nucleotide damage  including base loss (abasic site or 5'-drp/ap sites). ku  a 5'-drp/ap lyase  can excise such damage at ends in preparation for the ligation step. we show here that this activity is greatest if the abasic site is within a short 5' overhang  when this activity is necessary and sufficient to prepare such termini for ligation. in contrast  ku is less active near 3' strand termini  where excision would leave a ligation-blocking α β-unsaturated aldehyde. the ku ap lyase activity is also strongly suppressed by as little as two paired bases 5' of the abasic site. importantly  in vitro end joining experiments show that abasic sites significantly embedded in double-stranded dna do not block the nhej ligation step. suppression of the excision activity of ku in this context therefore is not essential for ligation and further helps nhej retain terminal sequence in junctions. we show that the dna between the 5' terminus and the abasic site can also be retained in junctions formed by cellular nhej  indicating that these sites are at least partly resistant to other abasic site-cleaving activities as well. high levels of the 5'-drp/ap lyase activity of ku are thus restricted to substrates where excision of an abasic site is required for ligation  a degree of specificity that promotes more accurate joining.
3105,apoptosis in breast cancer: relationship with other pathological parameters.,apoptosis is a frequent phenomenon in breast cancer and it can be detected by light microscopy in conventional histopathological sections or by special staining techniques. the number of apoptotic cells as a percentage of cells present  or the number of apoptotic cells per square millimetre of neoplastic tissue  is usually described as the apoptotic index (ai). in breast cancer  the ai is not related to tumour size  axillary lymph node metastasis or distant metastasis at diagnosis. it is greater in invasive ductal carcinomas than in other histological types. high ai is also related to high histological grade  high nuclear grade  comedo-type necrosis  lack of tubule formation  and dense infiltration of the tumour by lymphocytes. sex steroid receptor-negative tumours have greater ais than the sex steroid receptor-positive ones. aneuploid breast cancers with high s-phase fractions (spfs) also have high ai values compared with diploid tumours with low spfs. p53-positive breast cancers have high ais  whereas tumours that are bcl-2 positive have low ais. the ai shows a strong positive correlation to all direct or indirect indicators of cell proliferation  such as mitotic index and ki67 immunolabelling. univariate survival analyses show that a high ai is linked with unfavourable disease outcome in axillary lymph node-negative and -positive breast cancer  but multivariate analyses indicate that ai is not an independent prognostic factor. in conclusion  a high ai is related to malignant cellular features and indicators of invasiveness and cell proliferation in breast cancer.
3107,virus-specific cytotoxic t-lymphocyte responses select for amino-acid variation in simian immunodeficiency virus env and nef,cytotoxic t-lymphocyte (ctl) responses to human immunodeficiency virus arise early after infection  but ultimately fail to prevent progression to aids. human immunodeficiency virus may evade the ctl response by accumulating amino-acid replacements within ctl epitopes. we studied 10 ctl epitopes during the course of simian immunodeficiency virus disease progression in three related macaques. all 10 of these ctl epitopes accumulated amino-acid replacements and showed evidence of positive selection by the time the macaques died. many of the amino-acid replacements in these epitopes reduced or eliminated major histocompatibility complex class i binding and/or ctl recognition. these findings strongly support the ctl 'escape' hypothesis.
3109,genetic predictors of taxane-induced neurotoxicity in a swog phase iii intergroup adjuvant breast cancer treatment trial (s0221),taxanes have resulted in improved survival for breast cancer patients  but often cause neurological toxicities. identification of biomarkers related to toxicities could be important for dictating treatment regimen. we evaluated single nucleotide polymorphisms (snps) in the fanconi anemia (fa)/brca pathway in relation to grade 3/4 neurotoxicities in patients (n = 888) from swog0221  a phase iii adjuvant trial for breast cancer of 4 dose/schedules of cyclophosphamide (c)  doxorubicin (a)  and paclitaxel (t). in a separate cohort  we measured the correlation of significant fancd2 snps with corresponding gene expression. for fancd2  permutation testing revealed that 4 (out of 20) snps were significantly associated with an almost two-fold increased risk of toxicity. two fancd2 haplotypes were also associated with neurological toxicity  with odds ratios (or) in the overall population of 1.8 (95% confidence interval (ci) 1.3  2.5) and 1.7 (95% ci  1.2  2.4). although numbers were small  an african-american-specific haplotype was associated with an almost 3-fold increase in risk of neurologic toxicity (or = 2.84  95% ci = 1.2  6.9). expression analyses revealed that significant fancd2 snps were associated with fancd2 expression levels (p = 0.03). there were no associations between snps in brca1 and neurotoxicities. in this trial of ca+t for breast cancer  snps in fancd2  but not in brca1  were associated with a 70–80% increase in the odds of grade 3/4 neurological toxicities and increased expression of the gene. if replicated  women with these genotypes should be closely monitored for toxicities and could be targeted for preventive measures or alternative therapeutic approaches.
3111,inhibition of hedgehog signaling enhances delivery of chemotherapy in a mouse model of pancreatic cancer.,pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (pda) is among the most lethal human cancers in part because it is insensitive to many chemotherapeutic drugs. studying a mouse model of pda that is refractory to the clinically used drug gemcitabine  we found that the tumors in this model were poorly perfused and poorly vascularized  properties that are shared with human pda. we tested whether the delivery and efficacy of gemcitabine in the mice could be improved by coadministration of ipi-926  a drug that depletes tumor-associated stromal tissue by inhibition of the hedgehog cellular signaling pathway. the combination therapy produced a transient increase in intratumoral vascular density and intratumoral concentration of gemcitabine  leading to transient stabilization of disease. thus  inefficient drug delivery may be an important contributor to chemoresistance in pancreatic cancer.
3113,high spatial resolution mapping of malaria transmission risk in the gambia  west africa  using landsat tm satellite imagery.,understanding local variability in malaria transmission risk is critically important when designing intervention or vaccine trials. using a combination of field data  satellite image analysis  and gis modeling  we developed a high-resolution map of malaria entomological inoculation rates (eir) in the gambia  west africa. the analyses are based on the variation in exposure to malaria parasites experienced in 48 villages in 1996 and 21 villages in 1997. the entomological inoculation rate (eir) varied from 0 to 166 infective bites per person per rainy season. detailed field surveys identified the major anopheles gambiae s.l. breeding habitats. these habitats were mapped by classification of a landsat tm satellite image with an overall accuracy of 85%. village eirs decreased as a power function based on the breeding areas size and proximity. we use this relationship and the breeding habitats to map the variation in eir over the entire 2500-km(2) study area.
3115,apolipoprotein e: high-avidity binding to beta-amyloid and increased frequency of type 4 allele in late-onset familial alzheimer disease.,apolipoprotein e is immunochemically localized to the senile plaques  vascular amyloid  and neurofibrillary tangles of alzheimer disease. in vitro  apolipoprotein e in cerebrospinal fluid binds to synthetic beta a4 peptide (the primary constituent of the senile plaque) with high avidity. amino acids 12-28 of the beta a4 peptide are required. the gene for apolipoprotein e is located on chromosome 19q13.2  within the region previously associated with linkage of late-onset familial alzheimer disease. analysis of apolipoprotein e alleles in alzheimer disease and controls demonstrated that there was a highly significant association of apolipoprotein e type 4 allele (apoe-epsilon 4) and late-onset familial alzheimer disease. the allele frequency of the apoe-epsilon 4 in 30 random affected patients  each from a different alzheimer disease family  was 0.50 +/- 0.06; the allele frequency of apoe-epsilon 4 in 91 age-matched unrelated controls was 0.16 +/- 0.03 (z = 2.44  p = 0.014). a functional role of the apolipoprotein e-e4 isoform in the pathogenesis of late-onset familial alzheimer disease is suggested.
3117,adam13 disintegrin and cysteine-rich domains bind to the second heparin-binding domain of fibronectin.,adam13 is a member of the disintegrin and metalloprotease protein family that is expressed on cranial neural crest cells surface and is essential for their migration. adam13 is an active protease that can cleave fibronectin in vitro and remodel a fibronectin substrate in vivo. using a recombinant secreted protein containing both disintegrin and cysteine-rich domains of adam13  we show that this "adhesive" region of the protein binds directly to fibronectin. fibronectin fusion proteins corresponding to the various functional domains were used to define the second heparin-binding domain as the adam13 binding site. mutation of the syndecan-binding site (pprr --> pptm) within this domain abolishes binding of the recombinant disintegrin and cysteine-rich domains of adam13. we further show that the adhesive disintegrin and cysteine-rich domain of adam13 can promote cell adhesion via beta(1) integrins. this adhesion requires integrin activation and can be prevented by antibodies to the cysteine-rich domain of adam13 and beta(1) integrin. finally  wild type  but not the e/a mutant of adam13 metalloprotease domain  can be shed from the cell surface  releasing the metalloprotease domain associated with the disintegrin and cysteine-rich domains. this suggests that adam13 shedding may involve its own metalloprotease activity and that the released protease may interact with both integrins and extracellular matrix proteins.
3119,toll-like receptor 7 agonist gs-9620 induces prolonged inhibition of hbv via a type i interferon-dependent mechanism.,background & aims gs-9620  an oral agonist of toll-like receptor 7 (tlr7)  is in clinical development for the treatment of chronic hepatitis b (chb). gs-9620 was previously shown to induce prolonged suppression of serum viral dna and antigens in the woodchuck and chimpanzee models of chb. herein  we investigated the molecular mechanisms that contribute to the antiviral response to gs-9620 using in vitro models of hepatitis b virus (hbv) infection. methods cryopreserved primary human hepatocytes (phh) and differentiated heparg (dheparg) cells were infected with hbv and treated with gs-9620  conditioned media from human peripheral blood mononuclear cells treated with gs-9620 (gs-9620 conditioned media [gs-9620-cm])  or other innate immune stimuli. the antiviral and transcriptional response to these agents was determined. results gs-9620 had no antiviral activity in hbv-infected phh  consistent with low level tlr7 mrna expression in human hepatocytes. in contrast  gs-9620-cm induced prolonged reduction of hbv dna  rna  and antigen levels in phh and dheparg cells via a type i interferon (ifn)-dependent mechanism. gs-9620-cm did not reduce covalently closed circular dna (cccdna) levels in either cell type. transcriptional profiling demonstrated that gs-9620-cm strongly induced various hbv restriction factors - although not apobec3a or the smc5/6 complex - and indicated that established hbv infection does not modulate innate immune sensing or signaling in cryopreserved phh. gs-9620-cm also induced expression of immunoproteasome subunits and enhanced presentation of an immunodominant viral peptide in hbv-infected phh. conclusions type i ifn induced by gs-9620 durably suppressed hbv in human hepatocytes without reducing cccdna levels. moreover  hbv antigen presentation was enhanced  suggesting additional components of the tlr7-induced immune response played a role in the antiviral response to gs-9620 in animal models of chb. lay summary gs-9620 is a drug currently being tested in clinical trials for the treatment of chronic hepatitis b virus (hbv) infection. gs-9620 has previously been shown to suppress hbv in various animal models  but the underlying antiviral mechanisms were not completely understood. in this study  we determined that gs-9620 does not directly activate antiviral pathways in human liver cells  but can induce prolonged suppression of hbv via induction of an antiviral cytokine called interferon. however  interferon did not destroy the hbv genome  suggesting that other parts of the immune response (e.g. activation of immune cells that kill infected cells) also play an important role in the antiviral response to gs-9620.
3121,nonproductive human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infection in nucleoside-treated g0 lymphocytes.,productive infection by human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (hiv-1) requires the activation of target cells. infection of quiescent peripheral cd4 lymphocytes by hiv-1 results in incomplete  labile  reverse transcripts. we have previously identified g1b as the cell cycle stage required for the optimal completion of the reverse transcription process in t lymphocytes. however  the mechanism(s) involved in the blockage of reverse transcription remains undefined. in this study we investigated whether nucleotide levels influence viral reverse transcription in g0 cells. for this purpose the role of the enzyme ribonucleotide reductase was bypassed  by adding exogenous deoxyribonucleosides to highly purified t cells in the g0 or the g1a phase of the cell cycle. our data showed a significant increase in the efficiency of the reverse transcription process following the addition of the deoxyribonucleosides. to define the stability and functionality of these full reverse transcripts  we used an hiv-1 reporter virus that expresses the murine heat-stable antigen on the surfaces of infected cells. following activation of infected quiescent cells treated with exogenous nucleosides  no increased rescue of productive infection was seen. thus  in addition to failure to complete reverse transcription  there was an additional nonreversible blockage of productive infection in quiescent t cells. these experiments have important relevance in the gene therapy arena  in terms of improving the ability of lentivirus vectors to enter metabolically inactive cells  such as hematopoietic stem cells.
3123,respiratory and cardiovascular responses to walking down a traffic-polluted road compared with walking in a traffic-free area in participants aged 60 years and older with chronic lung or heart disease and age-matched healthy controls: a randomised  crossover study,background long-term exposure to pollution can lead to an increase in the rate of decline of lung function  especially in older individuals and in those with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd)  whereas shorter-term exposure at higher pollution levels has been implicated in causing excess deaths from ischaemic heart disease and exacerbations of copd. we aimed to assess the effects on respiratory and cardiovascular responses of walking down a busy street with high levels of pollution compared with walking in a traffic-free area with lower pollution levels in older adults. methods in this randomised  crossover study  we recruited men and women aged 60 years and older with angiographically proven stable ischaemic heart disease or stage 2 global initiative for obstructive lung disease (gold) copd who had been clinically stable for 6 months  and age-matched healthy volunteers. individuals with ischaemic heart disease or copd were recruited from existing databases or outpatient respiratory and cardiology clinics at the royal brompton & harefield nhs foundation trust and age-matched healthy volunteers using advertising and existing databases. all participants had abstained from smoking for at least 12 months and medications were taken as recommended by participants' doctors during the study. participants were randomly assigned by drawing numbered disks at random from a bag to do a 2 h walk either along a commercial street in london (oxford street) or in an urban park (hyde park). baseline measurements of participants were taken before the walk in the hospital laboratory. during each walk session  black carbon  particulate matter (pm) concentrations  ultrafine particles  and nitrogen dioxide (no2) concentrations were measured. findings between october  2012  and june  2014  we screened 135 participants  of whom 40 healthy volunteers  40 individuals with copd  and 39 with ischaemic heart disease were recruited. concentrations of black carbon  no2  pm10  pm2.5  and ultrafine particles were higher on oxford street than in hyde park. participants with copd reported more cough (odds ratio [or] 1·95  95% ci 0·96-3·95; p<0·1)  sputum (3·15  1·39-7·13; p<0·05)  shortness of breath (1·86  0·97-3·57; p<0·1)  and wheeze (4·00  1·52-10·50; p<0·05) after walking down oxford street compared with hyde park. in all participants  irrespective of their disease status  walking in hyde park led to an increase in lung function (forced expiratory volume in the first second [fev1] and forced vital capacity [fvc]) and a decrease in pulse wave velocity (pwv) and augmentation index up to 26 h after the walk. by contrast  these beneficial responses were attenuated after walking on oxford street. in participants with copd  a reduction in fev1 and fvc  and an increase in r5-20 were associated with an increase in during-walk exposure to no2  ultrafine particles and pm2.5  and an increase in pwv and augmentation index with no2 and ultrafine particles. in healthy volunteers  pwv and augmentation index were associated both with black carbon and ultrafine particles. interpretation short-term exposure to traffic pollution prevents the beneficial cardiopulmonary effects of walking in people with copd  ischaemic heart disease  and those free from chronic cardiopulmonary diseases. medication use might reduce the adverse effects of air pollution in individuals with ischaemic heart disease. policies should aim to control ambient levels of air pollution along busy streets in view of these negative health effects. funding british heart foundation.
3125,ephrin b1–mediated repulsion and signaling control germinal center t cell territoriality and function,follicular t helper (tfh) cells orchestrate the germinal center (gc) reaction locally. local mechanisms regulating their dynamics and helper functions are not well defined. here we found that gc-expressed ephrin b1 (efnb1) repulsively inhibited t cell to b cell adhesion and gc tfh retention by signaling through tfh-expressed ephb6 receptor. at the same time  efnb1 promoted interleukin-21 production from gc tfh cells by signaling predominantly through ephb4. consequently  efnb1-null gcs were associated with defective production of plasma cells despite harboring excessive tfh cells. in a competitive gc reaction  efnb1-deficient b cells more efficiently interacted with tfh cells and produced more bone-marrow plasma cells  likely as a result of gaining more contact-dependent help. our results reveal a contact-dependent repulsive guidance system that controls gc tfh dynamics and effector functions locally.
3127,alternate-day wheel access: effects on feeding  body weight  and running.,for rats access to a running wheel results in a pronounced but temporary suppression of feeding. the reasons for the feeding suppression and its temporary nature are unclear. the effects of alternate-day wheel access were explored by comparing feeding and running in 25 male sprague-dawley rats given either no wheel access  continuous wheel access  or alternate-day wheel access. with alternate-day wheel access food intake was suppressed on wheel days and elevated on non-wheel days for the full 32 days of the experiment. body weight decreased on wheel days and showed a large increase on non-wheel days. acquisition of running over days was similar in both wheel groups and plateaued at the same level  but running was elevated  compared to continuous-access rats  for the first few hours when alternate-day rats were returned to the wheel. these results suggest that wheel-induced feeding suppression is not due to the novelty of the wheel and that this suppression can be extended by providing periods with no wheel access. the temporary nature of feeding suppression in chronic access conditions may be due to secondary longer term motivational changes.
3129,research priorities in sudden unexpected infant death: an international consensus.,despite the success of safe sleep campaigns and the progress in understanding risk factors  the rate of reduction in the cases of sudden infant death syndrome has now slowed and it remains a leading cause of postneonatal mortality in many developed countries. strategic action is needed to tackle this problem and it is now vital to identify how the sudden infant death research community may best target its efforts. the global action and prioritization of sudden infant death project was an international consensus process that aimed to define and direct future research by investigating the priorities of expert and lay members of the sudden unexpected infant death (suid) community across countries. the aim was to identify which areas of research should be prioritized to reduce the number of suid deaths globally. scientific researchers  clinicians  counselors  educators  and suid parents from 25 countries took part across 2 online surveys to identify potential research priorities. workshops subsequently took place in the united kingdom  united states  and australia to reach consensus and 10 priority areas for research were established. three main themes among the priorities emerged: (1) a better understanding of mechanisms underlying suid  (2) ensuring best practice in data collection  management and sharing  and (3) a better understanding of target populations and more effective communication of risk. suid is a global problem and this project provides the international suid community with a list of shared research priorities to more effectively work toward explaining and reducing the number of sudden infant deaths.
3131,celiac disease screening by immunochromatographic visual assays: results of a multicenter study.,objective to assay the efficiency for celiac disease (cd) screening of 2 immunochromatographic visual stick assays based on human recombinant tissue transglutaminase (ttg). one was the antitissue transglutaminase antibodies (attga) stick for iga/g antibodies to ttg detection  the other was the attga/antigliadin antibodies (aga) stick for iga antibodies for ttg and/or gliadins. patients and methods in a prospective multicenter study  4 pediatric gastroenterology units from spain and 2 from latin america enrolled 72 control children with a normal small bowel mucosa and 113 untreated patients with cd with marsh type 3 lesions. results evaluation of results by the gastroenterologists and by 2 independent observers at the coordination center showed a remarkably low interobserver variability. for the attga stick  sensitivity was 96.5% and specificity was 98.6%. the attga/aga stick displayed a sensitivity of 94.5% and a specificity of 98.6% for attga and a sensitivity of 63.1% and a specificity of 95.2% for aga. the highest efficiency and positive likelihood ratio was obtained for the attga stick  higher than for iga attga by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. one additional advantage was that previous investigation of total serum iga levels could be eluded. the iga attga/aga stick  with an efficiency of 95.1%  compared with 89.2% when the combined results of the 2 enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays were considered  turned out to be an excellent diagnostic tool for infants with no iga deficiency. conclusion these 2 assays are extremely efficient for cd screening  by combining a high diagnostic accuracy with the simplicity and rapidity of visual methods.
3133,identification of short-lived long non-coding rnas as surrogate indicators for chemical stress response.,abiotic and biotic stressors in human cells are often a result of sudden and/or frequent changes in environmental factors. the molecular response to stress involves elaborate modulation of gene expression and is of homeostatic  ecological  and evolutionary importance. although attention has primarily focused on signaling pathways and protein networks  long non-coding rnas (ncrnas) are increasingly involved in the molecular mechanisms associated with responses to cellular stresses. we identified six novel short-lived long ncrnas (mir22hg  gabpb-as1  linc00152  idi2-as1  snhg15  and flj33630) that responded to chemical stressors (cisplatin  cycloheximide  and mercury (ii) oxide) in hela tet-off cells. our results indicate that short-lived long ncrnas respond to general and specific chemical stressors. the expression levels of the short-lived long ncrnas were elevated because of prolonged decay rates in response to chemical stressors and interruption of rna degradation pathways. we propose that these long ncrnas have the potential to be surrogate indicators of cellular stress responses.
3135,a small molecule restores function to trpml1 mutant isoforms responsible for mucolipidosis type iv.,mucolipidosis type iv (mliv) is an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder often characterized by severe neurodevelopmental abnormalities and neuro-retinal degeneration. mutations in the trpml1 gene are causative for mliv. we used lead optimization strategies to identify--and mliv patient fibroblasts to test--small-molecule activators for their potential to restore trpml1 mutant channel function. using the whole-lysosome planar patch-clamp technique  we found that activation of mliv mutant isoforms by the endogenous ligand pi(3 5)p2 is strongly reduced  while activity can be increased using synthetic ligands. we also found that the f465l mutation renders trpml1 ph insensitive  while f408δ impacts synthetic ligand binding. trafficking defects and accumulation of zinc in lysosomes of mliv mutant fibroblasts can be rescued by the small molecule treatment. collectively  our data demonstrate that small molecules can be used to restore channel function and rescue disease associated abnormalities in patient cells expressing specific mliv point mutations.
3137,treatment with cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors enables repeated administration of vaccinia virus for control of ovarian cancer.,metastatic ovarian cancer is the leading cause of death among women with gynecologic malignancies in the united states. the lack of effective treatment for patients with advanced ovarian cancer warrants development of innovative therapies. cancer therapy using oncolytic viruses represents a promising new approach for controlling tumors. vaccinia virus has been shown to preferentially infect tumor cells but not normal tissue. however  oncolytic therapy using recombinant viruses faces the limitation of viral clearance due to generation of neutralizing antibodies. in the current study  we found that cyclooxygenase-2 (cox-2) inhibitors circumvented this limitation  enabling repeated administration of vaccinia virus without losing infectivity. we quantified the antivaccinia antibody response using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (elisa) and neutralization assays to show that treatment of cox-2 inhibitors inhibited the generation of neutralizing antibodies. furthermore  we showed that combination treatment of cox-2 inhibitors with vaccinia virus was more effective that either treatment alone in treating mosec/luc tumor-bearing mice. thus  the combination of cox-2 inhibitors and vaccinia virus represents a potential innovative approach to controlling ovarian tumors.
3139,crossover and noncrossover pathways in mouse meiosis.,during meiosis  recombination between homologous chromosomes generates crossover (cr) and noncrossover (ncr) products. crs establish connections between homologs  whereas intermediates leading to ncrs have been proposed to participate in homologous pairing. how these events are differentiated and regulated remains to be determined. we have developed a strategy to detect  quantify  and map ncrs in parallel to crs  at the psmb9 meiotic recombination hot spot  in male and female mouse germ lines. our results report direct molecular evidence for distinct cr and ncr pathways of dna double-strand break (dsb) repair in mouse meiosis based on three observations: both crs and ncrs require spo11  ncr products have shorter conversion tracts than crs  and only crs require the mutl homolog mlh1. we show that both products are formed from middle to late pachytene of meiotic prophase and provide evidence for an mlh1-independent cr pathway  where mismatch repair does not require mlh1.
3141,15-hydroxyprostaglandin dehydrogenase is down-regulated in colorectal cancer.,prostaglandin e2 (pge2) can stimulate tumor progression by modulating several proneoplastic pathways  including proliferation  angiogenesis  cell migration  invasion  and apoptosis. although steady-state tissue levels of pge2 stem from relative rates of biosynthesis and breakdown  most reports examining pge2 have focused solely on the cyclooxygenase-dependent formation of this bioactive lipid. enzymatic degradation of pge2 involves the nad+-dependent 15-hydroxyprostaglandin dehydrogenase (15-pgdh). the present study examined a range of normal tissues in the human and mouse and found high levels of 15-pgdh in the large intestine. by contrast  the expression of 15-pgdh is decreased in several colorectal carcinoma cell lines and in other human malignancies such as breast and lung carcinomas. consistent with these findings  we observe diminished 15-pgdh expression in apcmin+/- mouse adenomas. enzymatic activity of 15-pgdh correlates with expression levels and the genetic disruption of 15-pgdh completely blocks production of the urinary pge2 metabolite. finally  15-pgdh expression and activity are significantly down-regulated in human colorectal carcinomas relative to matched normal tissue. in summary  these results suggest a novel tumor suppressive role for 15-pgdh due to loss of expression during colorectal tumor progression.
3143,the missing cases of tuberculosis in malawi: the contribution from cross-border registrations.,low case detection rates of new smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis (ptb) patients globally are a cause for concern. the aim of this study was to determine for patients registered for tb in malawi the number and percentage who lived in a neighbouring country and the registration  recording and reporting practices for these 'foreign' patients. all 44 non-private hospitals  which register and treat all tb patients in the public health sector in malawi  were visited. ten (23%) hospitals in 2001 and 14 (32%) in 2002 maintained a separate register for cross-border tb cases. patients recorded in these registers were not formally reported to the malawi national tb programme (ntp)  the neighbouring country's ntp  nor to who. they therefore constitute missing cases. in malawi  the number of cross-border new smear-positive ptb cases was 77 in 2001 and 91 in 2002  constituting about 3% of missing smear-positive cases in those hospitals that maintain cross-border registers and about 1% of missing cases nationally.
3145,managing finances of shipping living donor kidneys for donor exchanges.,kidney donor exchanges enable recipients with immunologically incompatible donors to receive compatible living donor grafts; however  the financial management of these exchanges  especially when an organ is shipped  is complex and thus has the potential to impede the broader implementation of donor exchange programs. representatives from transplant centers that utilize the national kidney registry database to facilitate donor exchange transplants developed a financial model applicable to paired donor exchanges and donor chain transplants. the first tenet of the model is to eliminate financial liability to the donor. thereafter  it accounts for the donor evaluation  donor nephrectomy hospital costs  donor nephrectomy physician fees  organ transport  donor complications and recipient inpatient services. billing between hospitals is based on medicare cost report defined costs rather than charges. we believe that this model complies with current federal regulations and effectively captures costs of the donor and recipient services. it could be considered as a financial paradigm for the united network for organ sharing managed donor exchange program.
3147,cloning of three novel neuronal cdk5 activator binding proteins.,neuronal cdc2-like kinase (nclk) is involved in the regulation of neuronal differentiation and neuro-cytoskeleton dynamics. the active kinase consists of a catalytic subunit  cdk5  and a 25 kda activator protein (p25nck5a) derived from a 35 kda neuronal-specific protein (p35nck5a). as an extension of our previous study (qi  z.  tang  d.  zhu  x.  fujita  d.j.  wang  j.h.  1998. association of neurofilament proteins with neuronal cdk5 activator. j. biol. chem. 270  2329-2335)  which showed that neurofilament is one of the p35nck5a-associated proteins  we now report the isolation of three other novel p35nck5a-associated proteins using the yeast two-hybrid screen. the full-length forms of these three novel proteins  designated c42  c48 and c53  have a molecular mass of 66  24  and 57 kda  respectively. northern analysis indicates that these novel proteins are widely expressed in human tissues  including the heart  brain  skeletal muscle  placenta  lung  liver  kidney and pancreas. the bacterially expressed glutathione s-transferase (gst)-fusion forms of these three proteins were able to co-precipitate p35nck5a complexed with cdk5 from insect cell lysate. among these three proteins  only c48 and c53 can be phosphorylated by nclk  suggesting that they may be the substrates of nclk. sequence homology searches have suggested that the c48 protein is marginally related to restin protein  whereas the c42 protein has homologues of unknown function in caenorhabditis elegans and arabidopsis thaliana.
3149,a promoter derived from taro bacilliform badnavirus drives strong expression in transgenic banana and tobacco plants,taro bacilliform virus (tabv) is a pararetrovirus of the genus badnavirus which infects the monocotyledonous plant  taro (colocasia esculenta). a region of the tabv genome spanning nucleotides 6 281 to 12 (t1200)  including the 3′ end of open reading frame 3 (orf 3) and the intergenic region to the end of the trnamet-binding site  was tested for promoter activity along with four different 5′ deletion fragments (t600  t500  t250 and t100). in transient assays  only the t1200  t600  t500 fragments were shown to have promoter activity in taro leaf  banana suspension cells and tobacco callus. when these three promoters were evaluated in stably transformed  in vitro-grown transgenic banana and tobacco plants  all were found to drive near-constitutive expression of either the green fluorescent protein or β-glucuronidase (gus) reporter gene in the stem (or pseudostem)  leaves and roots  with strongest expression observed in the vascular tissue. in transgenic banana leaves  the t600 promoter directed four-fold greater gus activity than that of the t1200  t500 and the maize polyubiquitin-1 promoters. in transgenic tobacco leaves  the levels of gus expression directed by the three promoters was between four- and ten-fold lower than that of the double cauliflower mosaic virus 35s promoter. these results indicate that the tabv-derived promoters may be useful for the high-level constitutive expression of transgenes in either monocotyledonous or dicotyledonous species.
3151,use of macrolides in mother and child and risk of infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis: nationwide cohort study,objective to assess the association between use of macrolide antibiotics in mothers and infants from pregnancy onset until 120 days after birth and infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis (ihps). design nationwide register based cohort study. setting denmark  1996-2011. participants 999 378 liveborn singletons and linked individual level information on macrolide prescriptions (maternal use during pregnancy  n=30 091; maternal use after birth  n=21 557; use in infants  n=6591)  surgery for ihps  and potential confounders. main outcome measures surgery for ihps by three categories of macrolide use: in mothers during pregnancy  in mothers after birth  and in infants after birth. results 880 infants developed ihps (0.9 cases per 1000 births). compared with infants with no use of macrolides  the adjusted rate ratio for ihps in infants with use of macrolides during days 0 to 13 after birth was 29.8 (95% confidence interval 16.4 to 54.1) and during days 14 to 120 was 3.24 (1.20 to 8.74); the corresponding absolute risk differences were 24.4 (95% confidence interval 13.0 to 44.1) and 0.65 (0.06 to 2.21) cases per 1000 infants exposed to macrolides  respectively. the rate ratio for maternal use of macrolides for days 0 to 13 after birth was 3.49 (1.92 to 6.34) and for days 14 to 120 was 0.70 (0.26 to 1.90); the corresponding absolute risk differences were 2.15 (0.82 to 4.64) and -0.11 (-0.26 to 0.31). the rate ratios for maternal use of macrolides during pregnancy were 1.02 (0.65 to 1.59) for weeks 0 to 27 and 1.77 (0.95 to 3.31) for weeks 28 to birth; the corresponding absolute risk differences were 0.01 (-0.31 to 0.50) and 0.67 (-0.06 to 2.02). conclusions treatment of young infants with macrolide antibiotics was strongly associated with ihps and should therefore only be administered if potential treatment benefits outweigh the risk. maternal use of macrolides during the first two weeks after birth was also associated with an increased risk of ihps. a possible association was also found with use during late pregnancy.
3153,polo kinase and asp are needed to promote the mitotic organizing activity of centrosomes,interfering with the activity of polo-like kinases can lead to the formation of monopolar spindles. polo-like kinases also regulate mitotic entry  activation of the anaphase-promoting complex and the necessary preconditions for cytokinesis. similarities between the phenotypes of the drosophila mutants asp and polo point towards a common role in spindle pole function. the abnormal spindles of asp mutants are bipolar but have disorganized broad poles at which γ-tubulin has an abnormal distribution. moreover  the synergism or of polo1 aspe3 double mutants indicates a possible involvement of these genes in a common process. asp is a microtubule-associated protein of relative molecular mass 220 000 (mr 220k) found at the face of the centrosome that contacts spindle microtubules. in partially purified centrosomes  it is required with γ-tubulin to organize microtubule asters. here  we show that asp is the previously identified mr 220k substrate of polo kinase. polo phosphorylates asp in vitro  converting it into an mpm2 epitope. polo and asp proteins immunoprecipitate together and exist as part of a 25–38s complex. extracts of polo-derived embryos are unable to restore the ability of salt-stripped centrosomes to nucleate microtubule asters. this can be rescued by addition of phosphorylated asp or active polo kinase.
3155,an il-13 inhibitor blocks the development of hepatic fibrosis during a t-helper type 2-dominated inflammatory response.,in schistosomiasis  chronic parasite egg-induced granuloma formation can lead to tissue destruction and fibrosis  which causes much of the morbidity and mortality associated with this disease. here we show the importance of il-13 in the pathogenesis of schistosomiasis  and demonstrate  perhaps for the first time  the therapeutic efficacy of an il-13 inhibitor  sil-13ralpha2-fc  in the control of hepatic fibrosis. t-helper type 2 (th2) cytokines dominate the immune response in mice infected with schistosoma mansoni  yet the specific contributions of il-13 and il-4 to the development of fibrosis were not previously investigated. our studies demonstrate that both cytokines play redundant roles in granuloma formation  which explains the ability of il-4-deficient mice to form granulomas around eggs. more importantly  however  these studies demonstrate that il-13 is the dominant th2-type cytokine regulating fibrosis. il-13 stimulated collagen production in fibroblasts  and procollagen i and procollagen iii mrna expression was decreased in sil-13ralpha2-fc-treated mice. moreover  the reduction in fibrosis observed in il-4-deficient mice was much less pronounced than that in sil-13ralpha2-fc-treated animals. fibrosis is a major pathological manifestation of a number of allergic  autoimmune  and infectious diseases. thus  our findings provide evidence that il-13 inhibitors may be of general therapeutic benefit in preventing damaging tissue fibrosis resulting from th2-dominated inflammatory responses.
3157,directly reprogrammed fibroblasts show global epigenetic remodeling and widespread tissue contribution.,ectopic expression of the four transcription factors oct4  sox2  c-myc  and klf4 is sufficient to confer a pluripotent state upon the fibroblast genome  generating induced pluripotent stem (ips) cells. it remains unknown if nuclear reprogramming induced by these four factors globally resets epigenetic differences between differentiated and pluripotent cells. here  using novel selection approaches  we have generated ips cells from fibroblasts to characterize their epigenetic state. female ips cells showed reactivation of a somatically silenced x chromosome and underwent random x inactivation upon differentiation. genome-wide analysis of two key histone modifications indicated that ips cells are highly similar to es cells. consistent with these observations  ips cells gave rise to viable high-degree chimeras with contribution to the germline. these data show that transcription factor-induced reprogramming leads to the global reversion of the somatic epigenome into an es-like state. our results provide a paradigm for studying the epigenetic modifications that accompany nuclear reprogramming and suggest that abnormal epigenetic reprogramming does not pose a problem for the potential therapeutic applications of ips cells.
3159,the history of sivs and aids: epidemiology  phylogeny and biology of isolates from naturally siv infected non-human primates (nhp) in africa.,simian immunodeficiency virus (siv) naturally infects non-human primates in africa. to date  40 sivs have been described both in natural hosts and in heterologous species. these viruses are highly diverse and the majority cluster in 6 relatively equidistant phylogenetic lineages. at least 8 sivs are currently considered as recombinant viruses  based on different clustering patterns in different genomic regions. only three types of genomes are known  based on the number of accessory genes: vpr-containing genomes  vpr-vpx containing genomes and vpr-vpu-containing genomes. vpx resulted by a duplication of the vpr gene following non-homologous recombination and is characteristic of sivs infecting the papionini tribe of monkeys and hiv-2 in humans. vpu is characteristic of sivcpz and hiv-1 and may have originated from a recombination involving sivs from cercopitecini monkeys. siv seems to be non-pathogenic in the vast majority of natural hosts in spite of a high levels of viral replication. this is probably a consequence of virus-host adaptation  in which the incubation period of the disease generally exceeds the life span of the african primate host. sivs also have a high propensity for cross-species transmission. in the new host  the outcome may vary from inapparent infection to highly pathogenic  the former being reported for african monkeys  whereas the latter being observed in macaques and humans. the high diversity of sivs was generated by a high mutation rate due to a low fidelity of the reverse-transcriptase and active viral and host cell turnover  host-dependent evolution and recombination. cross-species transmission is not rare  however preferential host switching may drive the majority of cross-species transmissions. numerous sivs tested so far are able to grow in vitro on human pbmc  therefore it has been postulated that siv represents a threat for infection of humans in central africa and that aids is a zoonosis. however  although the simian origin of the two hiv types is broadly acknowledged  there are no data that aids is acquired like a zoonosis. siv may undergo adaptation in the new human host in order to emerge in the general population. the study of siv in their natural hosts should provide important clues to the real threat to human populations and also elucidate the mechanisms associated with a long-term persistent viral infection without clinical consequences for the host.
3161,serum biomarkers as predictors of lung function decline in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.,background recent studies show that copd patients exhibit low-grade systemic inflammation  and that plasma fibrinogen and high neutrophil counts are related to faster declines in lung function. we examined correlations between serum biomarkers and the decline of lung function in copd patients. method baseline levels of 9 serum biomarkers (timp-1  alpha1-antitrypsin  mmp-9  tnf-alpha  tgf-beta  il-6  il-8  neutrophil elastase and crp)  fibrinogen and white blood cell counts (wcc) were measured in 96 copd patients. lung function was measured at the time of blood sampling and every 3-6 months during the observation period (median 25.0 months). results twenty patients were rapid decliners of lung function and 53 patients were non-decliners. neutrophil counts  serum crp and mmp-9 were significantly higher in the rapid decliners (p<0.05). the annual change of % predicted fev(1) was inversely correlated with mmp-9 (r=-0.288; p<0.01) and crp (r=-0.354; p<0.005) (partial correlation coefficients adjusted for age  sex  cardiovascular disease  smoking history  and baseline % predicted fev(1)). the remaining biomarkers were not correlated with the annual change of % predicted fev(1). conclusion serum crp and mmp-9 levels were related to fev(1) decline. these markers are good candidates as predictors for rapid decline of fev(1) in copd patients. additional long-term and larger size studies of copd patients could help determine the exact roles for these biomarkers.
3163,nerve-induced release of nitric oxide in the rabbit gastrointestinal tract as measured by in vivo microdialysis.,1. nitric oxide (no) has been suggested as a gastrointestinal neurotransmitter  mediating the gastric receptive relaxation and the relaxation in the peristaltic reflex. the aim of the present study was to measure nerve-induced no formation in vivo in the gastrointestinal tract. 2. formation of the nitric oxide oxidation products nitrite and nitrate during vagal nerve stimulation were measured in the anaesthetized rabbit. microdialysis probes were inserted into the wall of the stomach and proximal colon  and nitrite and nitrate in dialysate measured by capillary electrophoresis. 3. during bilateral vagal nerve stimulation there was an increase in nitrite and nitrate formation at the level of the stomach and in nitrite formation at the level of the colon. this increase was inhibited by intravenous administration of the no synthase inhibitor n omega-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester (l-name 30 mg kg-1). furthermore  l-name significantly increased nerve-induced gastric and colonic contractions  as well as spontaneous colonic contractions. 4. in summary  we present a new methodological procedure for quantification of small changes in nitric oxide formation in vivo. this study provides evidence that nitric oxide is released in the stomach and colonic wall during vagal nerve activity  at concentrations able to cause inhibition of smooth muscle contractions in vivo.
3165,archetypal trajectories of social  psychological  and spiritual wellbeing and distress in family care givers of patients with lung cancer: secondary analysis of serial qualitative interviews,objective to assess if family care givers of patients with lung cancer experience the patterns of social  psychological  and spiritual wellbeing and distress typical of the patient  from diagnosis to death. design secondary analysis of serial qualitative interviews carried out every three months for up to a year or to bereavement. setting south east scotland. participants 19 patients with lung cancer and their 19 family carers  totalling 88 interviews (42 with patients and 46 with carers). results carers followed clear patterns of social  psychological  and spiritual wellbeing and distress that mirrored the experiences of those for whom they were caring  with some carers also experiencing deterioration in physical health that impacted on their ability to care. psychological and spiritual distress were particularly dynamic and commonly experienced. in addition to the "why us?" response  witnessing suffering triggered personal reflections in carers on the meaning and purpose of life. certain key time points in the illness tended to be particularly problematic for both carers and patients: at diagnosis  at home after initial treatment  at recurrence  and during the terminal stage. conclusions family carers witness and share much of the illness experience of the dying patient. the multidimensional experience of distress suffered by patients with lung cancer was reflected in the suffering of their carers in the social  psychological  and spiritual domains  with psychological and spiritual distress being most pronounced. carers may need to be supported throughout the period of illness not just in the terminal phase and during bereavement  as currently tends to be the case.
3167,t cell memory.,t cell memory induced by prior infection or vaccination provides enhanced protection against subsequent microbial infections. the processes involved in generating and maintaining t cell memory are becoming better understood due to recent technological advances in identifying memory t cells and monitoring their behavior and function in vivo. memory t cells develop in response to a progressive set of cues-starting with signals from antigen-loaded  activated antigen-presenting cells (apcs) and inflammatory mediators induced by the innate immune response  to the poorly defined subsequent signals triggered as the immune response wanes toward homeostasis. the persistence of the resting memory t cells that eventually develop is regulated by cytokines. this chapter discusses recent findings on how memory t cells develop to confer long-term protective immunity.
3169,monitoring effectiveness and safety of tafamidis in transthyretin amyloidosis in italy: a longitudinal multicenter study in a non-endemic area,tafamidis is a transthyretin (ttr) stabilizer able to prevent ttr tetramer dissociation. there have been a few encouraging studies on tafamidis efficacy in early-onset inherited transthyretin amyloidosis (attr) due to val30met mutation. however  less is known about its efficacy in later disease stages and in non-val30met mutations. we performed a multi-center observational study on symptomatic attr patients prescribed to receive tafamidis. we followed up patients according to a standardized protocol including general medical  cardiological and neurological assessments at baseline and every 6 months up to 3 years. sixty-one (42 males) patients were recruited. only 28 % of enrolled subjects had the common val30met mutation  mean age of onset was remarkably late (59 years) and 18 % was in advanced disease stage at study entry. tafamidis proved safe and well-tolerated. one-third of patients did not show significant progression along 36 months  independently from mutation type and disease stage. neurological function worsened particularly in the first 6 months but progression slowed significantly thereafter. autonomic function remained stable in 33 %  worsened in 56 % and improved in 10 %. fifteen percent of patients showed cardiac disease progression and 30 % new onset of cardiomyopathy. overall  tafamidis was not able to prevent functional progression of the disease in 23 (43 %) subjects  including 16 patients who worsened in their walking ability and 12 patients who reached a higher nyha score during the follow-up period. a higher mbmi at baseline was associated with better preservation of neurological function. in conclusion  neuropathy and cardiomyopathy progressed in a significant proportion of patients despite treatment. however  worsening of neurological function slowed after the first 6 months and also subjects with more advanced neuropathy  as well as patients with non-val30met mutation  benefited from treatment. body weight preservation is an important favorable prognostic factor.
3171,blimp-1 attenuates th1 differentiation by repression of ifng  tbx21  and bcl6 gene expression.,t cell-specific deletion of blimp-1 causes abnormal t cell homeostasis and function  leading to spontaneous  fatal colitis in mice. herein we explore the role of blimp-1 in th1/th2 differentiation. blimp-1 mrna and protein are more highly expressed in th2 cells compared with th1 cells  and blimp-1 attenuates ifn-gamma production in cd4 cells activated under nonpolarizing conditions. although blimp-1-deficient t cells differentiate normally to th2 cytokines in vitro  blimp-1 is required in vivo for normal th2 humoral responses to np-klh (4-hydroxy-3-nitrophenylacetyl/keyhole lymphocyte hemocyanin) immunization. lack of blimp-1 in cd4 t cells causes increased ifn-gamma  t-bet  and bcl-6 mrna. by chromatin immunoprecipitation we show that blimp-1 binds directly to a distal regulatory region in the ifng gene and at multiple sites in tbx21 and bcl6 genes. our data provide evidence that blimp-1 functions in th2 cells to reinforce th2 differentiation by repressing critical th1 genes.
3173,trpc6 is a glomerular slit diaphragm-associated channel required for normal renal function,progressive kidney failure is a genetically and clinically heterogeneous group of disorders. podocyte foot processes and the interposed glomerular slit diaphragm are essential components of the permeability barrier in the kidney. mutations in genes encoding structural proteins of the podocyte lead to the development of proteinuria  resulting in progressive kidney failure and focal segmental glomerulosclerosis. here  we show that the canonical transient receptor potential 6 (trpc6) ion channel is expressed in podocytes and is a component of the glomerular slit diaphragm. we identified five families with autosomal dominant focal segmental glomerulosclerosis in which disease segregated with mutations in the gene trpc6 on chromosome 11q. two of the trpc6 mutants had increased current amplitudes. these data show that trpc6 channel activity at the slit diaphragm is essential for proper regulation of podocyte structure and function.
3175,functional specialization of piwi proteins in paramecium tetraurelia from post-transcriptional gene silencing to genome remodelling,proteins of the argonaute family are small rna carriers that guide regulatory complexes to their targets. the family comprises two major subclades. members of the ago subclade  which are present in most eukaryotic phyla  bind different classes of small rnas and regulate gene expression at both transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels. piwi subclade members appear to have been lost in plants and fungi and were mostly studied in metazoa  where they bind pirnas and have essential roles in sexual reproduction. their presence in ciliates  unicellular organisms harbouring both germline micronuclei and somatic macronuclei  offers an interesting perspective on the evolution of their functions. here  we report phylogenetic and functional analyses of the 15 piwi genes from paramecium tetraurelia. we show that four constitutively expressed proteins are involved in sirna pathways that mediate gene silencing throughout the life cycle. two other proteins  specifically expressed during meiosis  are required for accumulation of scnrnas during sexual reproduction and for programmed genome rearrangements during development of the somatic macronucleus. our results indicate that paramecium piwi proteins have evolved to perform both vegetative and sexual functions through mechanisms ranging from post-transcriptional mrna cleavage to epigenetic regulation of genome rearrangements.
3177,how can health care organizations be reliably compared?: lessons from a national survey of patient experience.,background patient experience is increasingly used to assess organizational performance  for example in public reporting or pay-for-performance schemes. conventional approaches using 95% confidence intervals are commonly used to determine required survey samples or to report performance but these may result in unreliable organizational comparisons. methods we analyzed data from 2.2 million patients who responded to the english 2009 general practice patient survey  which included 45 patient experience questions nested within 6 different care domains (access  continuity of care  communication  anticipatory care planning  out-of-hours care  and overall care satisfaction). for each question  unadjusted and case-mix adjusted (for age  sex  and ethnicity) organization-level reliability  and intraclass correlation coefficients were calculated. results mean responses per organization ranged from 23 to 256 for questions evaluating primary care practices  and from 1454 to 2758 for questions evaluating out-of-hours care organizations. adjusted and unadjusted reliability values were similar. twenty-six questions had excellent reliability (≥0.90). seven nurse communication questions had very good reliability (≥0.85)  but 3 anticipatory care planning questions had lower reliability (<0.70). reliability was typically <0.70 for questions with <100 mean responses per practice  usually indicating questions which only a subset of patients were eligible to answer. nine questions had both excellent reliability and high intraclass correlation coefficients (≥0.10) indicating both reliable measurement and substantial performance variability. conclusions high reliability is a necessary property of indicators used to compare health care organizations. using the english general practice patient survey as a case study  we show how reliability and intraclass correlation coefficients can be used to select measures to support robust organizational comparisons  and to design surveys that will both provide high-quality measurement and optimize survey costs.
3179,intracellular transport of fat-soluble vitamins a and e.,vitamins are compounds that are essential for the normal growth  reproduction and functioning of the human body. of the 13 known vitamins  vitamins a  d  e and k are lipophilic compounds and are therefore called fat-soluble vitamins. because of their lipophilicity  fat-soluble vitamins are solubilized and transported by intracellular carrier proteins to exert their actions and to be metabolized properly. vitamin a and its derivatives  collectively called retinoids  are solubilized by intracellular retinoid-binding proteins such as cellular retinol-binding protein (crbp)  cellular retinoic acid-binding protein (crabp) and cellular retinal-binding protein (cralbp). these proteins act as chaperones that regulate the metabolism  signaling and transport of retinoids. cralbp-mediated intracellular retinoid transport is essential for vision in human. α-tocopherol  the main form of vitamin e found in the body  is transported by α-tocopherol transfer protein (α-ttp) in hepatic cells. defects of α-ttp cause vitamin e deficiency and neurological disorders in humans. recently  it has been shown that the interaction of α-ttp with phosphoinositides plays a critical role in the intracellular transport of α-tocopherol and is associated with familial vitamin e deficiency. in this review  we summarize the mechanisms and biological significance of the intracellular transport of vitamins a and e.
3181,genes required for mycobacterial growth defined by high density mutagenesis.,despite over a century of research  tuberculosis remains a leading cause of infectious death worldwide. faced with increasing rates of drug resistance  the identification of genes that are required for the growth of this organism should provide new targets for the design of antimycobacterial agents. here  we describe the use of transposon site hybridization (trash) to comprehensively identify the genes required by the causative agent  mycobacterium tuberculosis  for optimal growth. these genes include those that can be assigned to essential pathways as well as many of unknown function. the genes important for the growth of m. tuberculosis are largely conserved in the degenerate genome of the leprosy bacillus  mycobacterium leprae  indicating that non-essential functions have been selectively lost since this bacterium diverged from other mycobacteria. in contrast  a surprisingly high proportion of these genes lack identifiable orthologues in other bacteria  suggesting that the minimal gene set required for survival varies greatly between organisms with different evolutionary histories.
3183,within the hemopoietic system  lar phosphatase is a t cell lineage-specific adhesion receptor-like protein whose phosphatase activity appears dispensable for t cell development  repertoire selection and function.,expression of the receptor-type tyrosine phosphatase lar was studied in cells of the murine hemopoietic system. the gene is expressed in all cells of the t cell lineage but not in cells of any other hemopoietic lineage and the level of expression in t cells is developmentally regulated. the cd4(-)8(-)44(+) early thymic immigrants and mature (cd4(+)8(-)/cd4(-)8(+)) thymocytes and t cells express low levels  whereas immature (cd4(-)8(-)44(-) and cd4(+)8(+)) thymocytes express high levels of lar. among bone marrow cells only uncommitted c-kit(+)b220(+)cd19(-) precursors  but not b cell lineage committed c-kit(+)b220(+)cd19(+) precursors  express low levels of lar. in contrast to the c-kit(+)b220(+)cd19(+) pre-bi cells from normal mice  counterparts of pre-bi cells from pax-5-deficient mice express lar  indicating that pax-5-mediated commitment to the b cell lineage results in suppression of lar. during differentiation of pax-5-deficient pre-bi cell line into non-t cell lineages  expression of lar is switched off  but it is up-regulated during differentiation into thymocytes. thus  within the hemopoietic system  lar appears to be a t cell lineage-specific receptor-type phosphatase. however  surprisingly  truncation of its phosphatase domains has no obvious effect on t cell development  repertoire selection or function.
3185,[neutrophils and macrophages related to the pathogenesis and disease development of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease by the inflammatory reaction].,chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd) is a chronic airway disorder characterized by obstructive airflow limitation which is not completely reversible with treatment. inflammatory changes in the peripheral airways  especially those with the diameter less than 2mm (so-called small airway disease) have been speculated to be initial steps of copd. and so it must be quite clear that neutrophils and macrophages play an essential role in the pathogenesis of these lesions. studies with bronchoalveolar lavage demonstrated an increase in neutrophil numbers and the neutrophil chemoattractant interleukin-8. recent studies demonstrated that neutrophils and macrophages are increased and contain a variety of proteases  which are involved in cell infiltration and activation. studies with gene-engineered animals and anti-cytokine treatment will facilitate better understanding the role of neutrophils and macrophages  and eventual novel therapy.
3187,a conditionally lethal yeast mutant blocked at the first step in glycosyl phosphatidylinositol anchor synthesis.,glycosyl phosphatidylinositols (gpis) anchor many proteins to the surface of eukaryotic cells and may also serve as sorting signals on proteins and participate in signal transduction. we have isolated a saccharomyces cerevisiae gpi anchoring mutant  gpi1  using a colony screen for cells blocked in [3h]inositol incorporation into protein. the gpi1 mutant is defective in vitro in the synthesis of n-acetylglucosaminyl phosphatidylinositol  the first intermediate in gpi synthesis  and is also temperature-sensitive for growth. completion of the first step in gpi assembly is therefore required for growth of the unicellular eukaryote s. cerevisiae. gpi synthesis could therefore be exploited as a target for antifungal or antiparasitic agents.
3189,macrophages induce cox-2 expression in breast cancer cells: role of il-1β autoamplification.,tumor-associated macrophages and high levels of cyclooxygenase-2 (cox-2) are associated with poor prognosis in breast cancer patients  but their potential interdependence has not been evaluated. the objective of this study was to determine whether macrophages regulate cox-2 expression in breast cancer cells. for this purpose  thp-1 cells were cocultured with hcc1954 breast cancer cells. coculture led to increased cox-2 expression in the hcc1954 cells and elevated prostaglandin e(2) levels in conditioned media. similar results were observed when thp-1 cells were incubated with hcc1937 breast cancer cells or when human monocyte-derived macrophages were cocultured with hcc1954 cells. coculture triggered production of reactive oxygen species (ros) in hcc1954 cells. cox-2 induction was blocked in cells preincubated with an reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (nadph) oxidase inhibitor or by silencing p67phox  a subunit of nadph oxidase. ros production triggered activation of src and mitogen-activated protein kinases (mapks). blocking src or mapk activities or antagonizing the activator protein-1 (ap-1) transcription factor attenuated cox-2 induction in hcc1954 cells. coculture caused rapid induction of interleukin-1β (il-1β) in both breast cancer cells and macrophages. increased il-1β expression was blocked by an interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (il-1ra)  suggesting autocrine and paracrine effects. importantly  macrophage-induced cox-2 expression was blocked in hcc1954 cells preincubated with il-1ra or anti-il-1β igg. together  these results indicate that macrophage-mediated induction of cox-2 in breast cancer cells is a consequence of il-1β-mediated stimulation of ros→src→mapk→ap-1 signaling. il-1β-dependent induction of cox-2 in breast cancer cells provides a mechanism whereby macrophages contribute to tumor progression and potential therapeutic targets in breast cancer.
3191,aerobic capacity in black adolescent girls.,our purpose was to determine the aerobic capacities (vo2max) of a group of black female adolescents (age = 11.4-15.8 years) randomly chosen from a single urban school. of 91 girls selected  64 performed an incremental treadmill running test to volitional exhaustion and achieved vo2max as determined from expired gas measures. other measures included height (m)  weight (kg)  and calf and triceps skinfolds (for % fat estimates). girls were also asked whether they had achieved menarche. vo2max averaged 37.3 +/- 6.2 ml.kg-1 x min-1 and was significantly correlated (r[62]) with height (-.32  p < .01)  body mass index (-.63  p < .001)  and % fat (-.65  p < .001) but not with age (-.16  p > .10). postmenarchal girls were significantly taller and older than premenarchal girls. contrary to previous studies  the girls' vo2max values were not related to biological age. our subjects' aerobic capacity values averaged 14% less than those of nonblack u.s. female adolescents previously reported in the literature. this difference in vo2max was primarily a function of body weight. study implications support the possibility that overweight in adult black women may originate prior to or during early adolescence. future longitudinal studies should be designed to investigate the effects of aerobic fitness on cardiovascular risk factor reduction in black adolescent girls.
3193,hypoglycemia: incidence and clinical predictors in a large population-based sample of children and adolescents with iddm.,objective to determine the frequency of moderate and severe hypoglycemia and to identify clinical predictors associated with its occurrence in a large population-based sample of children and adolescents with iddm. research design and methods a total of 657 patients (age: 12.1 +/- 4.4 years  mean +/- sd) were included in the study  yielding 1 449 patient-years of data. a prospective assessment of severe hypoglycemia (an event resulting in a seizure or coma) and moderate hypoglycemia (an event requiring assistance of another  excluding severe episodes) was made over a 3-year period. patients and caregivers detailed episodes of significant hypoglycemia (moderate and severe events) and these were recorded at each 3-month clinic visit along with hba1c. data were analyzed using generalized estimating equation models fitted with the exchange correlation structure. results the overall incidence of severe events was 4.8/100 patient-years and of moderate events was 13.1/100 patient-years. over 3 years  severe events occurred in 8.5% of children and moderate events occurred in 26.9%. significant hypoglycemia was rare in the first 12 months after diagnosis. rates of hypoglycemia were increased in children < 6 years of age versus > 6 years of age (40.9 vs. 16.6/100 patient-years  age < or = 6 years vs. age > 6 years  p < 0.001). rates of hypoglycemia doubled when hba1c fell below 8%  and children with hba1c < 7% had a threefold increase in both moderate and severe hypoglycemia (e.g.  severe episodes 14.9 vs. 4.1/100 patient-years  hba1c < or = 7% vs. hba1c > 7%  p < 0.001). most severe events were seizures  and 75% of them occurred at night. the majority of events were related to missed meals or increased activity. however  in 38% no predisposing factor was evident. conclusions newly diagnosed children appear to be protected from severe hypoglycemia. rates increase with lower glycated hemoglobin  especially when mean hba1c is < 8.0%. younger children  who may be more susceptible to the adverse effects of neuroglycopenia  are at a particular risk of significant hypoglycemia.
3195,high prevalence of evolutionarily conserved and species-specific genomic aberrations in mouse pluripotent stem cells.,mouse pluripotent stem cells (pscs) are the best studied pluripotent system and are regarded as the "gold standard" to which human pscs are compared. however  while the genomic integrity of human pscs has recently drawn much attention  mouse pscs have not been systematically evaluated in this regard. the genomic stability of pscs is a matter of profound significance  as it affects their pluripotency  differentiation  and tumorigenicity. we thus performed a thorough analysis of the genomic integrity of 325 samples of mouse pscs  including 127 induced pluripotent stem cell (ipsc) samples. we found that genomic aberrations occur frequently in mouse embryonic stem cells of various mouse strains  add in mouse ipscs of various cell origins and derivation techniques. four hotspots of chromosomal aberrations were detected: full trisomy 11 (with a minimally recurrent gain in 11qe2)  full trisomy 8  and deletions in chromosomes 10qb and 14qc-14qe. the most recurrent aberration in mouse pscs  gain 11qe2  turned out to be fully syntenic to the common aberration 17q25 in human pscs  while other recurrent aberrations were found to be species specific. analysis of chromosomal aberrations in 74 samples of rhesus macaque pscs revealed a gain in chromosome 16q  syntenic to the hotspot in human 17q. importantly  these common aberrations jeopardize the interpretation of published comparisons of pscs  which were unintentionally conducted between normal and aberrant cells. therefore  this work emphasizes the need to carefully monitor genomic integrity of pscs from all species  for their proper use in biomedical research.
3197,profile of the navrongo health and demographic surveillance system.,located in the kassena-nankana districts of northern ghana  the navrongo health and demographic surveillance system (nhdss) was established in 1992 by the navrongo health research centre (nhrc). the nhrc is one of three research centres of the ghana health service. the activities and potential of the nhdss for collaborative research are described. the nhdss monitors health and demographic dynamics of the two kassena-nankana districts of northern ghana and facilitates evaluation of the morbidity and mortality impact of health and social interventions. the total population currently under surveillance is 152 000 residing in 32 000 households. events monitored routinely include pregnancies  births  morbidity  deaths  migration  marriages and vaccination coverage. data updates are done every 4 months by trained fieldworkers. the nhrc also undertakes biomedical and socio-economic studies. additional features of the nhdss include the community key informant system where trained volunteers routinely report key events  such as births and deaths as they occur in their locality and the verbal autopsy (va) system for determining the probable causes of deaths that occur at the community level. data from the nhdss are shared with funders and collaborators and partners in the indepth network. the director of the nhdss is the contact person for potential collaboration with the nhdss and the use of its data.
3199,tlr activation triggers the rapid differentiation of monocytes into macrophages and dendritic cells,leprosy enables investigation of mechanisms by which the innate immune system contributes to host defense against infection  because in one form  the disease progresses  and in the other  the infection is limited. we report that toll-like receptor (tlr) activation of human monocytes induces rapid differentiation into two distinct subsets: dc-sign+ cd16+ macrophages and cd1b+ dc-sign− dendritic cells. dc-sign+ phagocytic macrophages were expanded by tlr-mediated upregulation of interleukin (il)-15 and il-15 receptor. cd1b+ dendritic cells were expanded by tlr-mediated upregulation of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (gm-csf) and its receptor  promoted t cell activation and secreted proinflammatory cytokines. whereas dc-sign+ macrophages were detected in lesions and after tlr activation in all leprosy patients  cd1b+ dendritic cells were not detected in lesions or after tlr activation of peripheral monocytes in individuals with the progressive lepromatous form  except during reversal reactions in which bacilli were cleared by t helper type 1 (th1) responses. in tuberculoid lepromatous lesions  dc-sign+ cells were positive for macrophage markers  but negative for dendritic cell markers. thus  tlr-induced differentiation of monocytes into either macrophages or dendritic cells seems to crucially influence effective host defenses in human infectious disease.
3201,p53 induces formation of neat1 lncrna-containing paraspeckles that modulate replication stress response and chemosensitivity,in a search for mediators of the p53 tumor suppressor pathway  which induces pleiotropic and often antagonistic cellular responses  we identified the long noncoding rna (lncrna) neat1. neat1 is an essential architectural component of paraspeckle nuclear bodies  whose pathophysiological relevance remains unclear. activation of p53  pharmacologically or by oncogene-induced replication stress  stimulated the formation of paraspeckles in mouse and human cells. silencing neat1 expression in mice  which prevents paraspeckle formation  sensitized preneoplastic cells to dna-damage-induced cell death and impaired skin tumorigenesis. we provide mechanistic evidence that neat1 promotes atr signaling in response to replication stress and is thereby engaged in a negative feedback loop that attenuates oncogene-dependent activation of p53. neat1 targeting in established human cancer cell lines induced synthetic lethality with genotoxic chemotherapeutics  including parp inhibitors  and nongenotoxic activation of p53. this study establishes a key genetic link between neat1 paraspeckles  p53 biology and tumorigenesis and identifies neat1 as a promising target to enhance sensitivity of cancer cells to both chemotherapy and p53 reactivation therapy.
3203,protection from olanzapine-induced metabolic toxicity in mice by acetaminophen and tetrahydroindenoindole,objective:in mice and in humans  treatment with the second-generation antipsychotic drug olanzapine (olz) produces excessive weight gain  adiposity and secondary metabolic complications  including loss of glucose and insulin homeostasis. in mice consuming a high-fat (hf) diet  a similar phenotype develops  which is inhibited by the analgesic acetaminophen (apap) and by the antioxidant tetrahydroindenoindole (thii). therefore  we examined the ability of apap and thii to prevent metabolic changes in mice receiving olz.design and measurement:c57bl/6j mice received either a normal diet or a hf diet  and were administered daily dosages of olz (3 mg kg−1 body weight)  alone or with apap (30 mg kg−1 body weight) or thii (4.5 mg kg−1 body weight)  for 10 weeks. parameters of body composition and metabolism  including glucose and insulin homeostasis and oxidative stress  were examined. results:olz treatment doubled the hf diet-induced increases in body weight and percent body fat. these increases were partially prevented by both apap and thii  although food consumption was constant in all groups. the thii protection was associated with an increase in whole body and mitochondrial respiration. olz also exacerbated  and both apap and thii prevented  hf diet-induced loss of glucose tolerance and insulin resistance. as increased body fat promotes insulin resistance by a pathway involving oxidative stress  we evaluated production of reactive oxygen and lipid peroxidation in white adipose tissue (wat). hf diet caused an increase in lipid peroxidation  nadph-dependent o2 uptake and h2o2 production  which were further exacerbated by olz. apap  thii and the nadph oxidase inhibitor  diphenyleneiodonium chloride  each abolished oxidative stress in wat.conclusions:we conclude that both apap and thii intervene in the development of obesity and metabolic complications associated with olz treatment.
3205,genetic alterations and their relationship in the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/akt pathway in thyroid cancer.,purpose to investigate the overall occurrence and relationship of genetic alterations in the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (pi3k)/akt pathway in thyroid tumors and explore the scope of this pathway as a therapeutic target for thyroid cancer. experimental design we examined collectively the major genetic alterations and their relationship in this pathway  including pik3ca copy number gain and mutation  ras mutation  and pten mutation  in a large series of primary thyroid tumors. results occurrence of any of these genetic alterations was found in 25 of 81 (31%) benign thyroid adenoma (bta)  47 of 86 (55%) follicular thyroid cancer (ftc)  21 of 86 (24%) papillary thyroid cancer (ptc)  and 29 of 50 (58%) anaplastic thyroid cancer (atc)  with ftc and atc most frequently harboring these genetic alterations. pik3ca copy gain was associated with increased pik3ca protein expression. a mutual exclusivity among these genetic alterations was seen in bta  ftc  and ptc  suggesting an independent role of each of them through the pi3k/akt pathway in the tumorigenesis of the differentiated thyroid tumors. however  coexistence of these genetic alterations was increasingly seen with progression from differentiated tumor to undifferentiated atc. their coexistence with braf mutation was also frequent in ptc and atc. conclusions the data provide strong genetic implication that aberrant activation of pi3k/akt pathway plays an extensive role in thyroid tumorigenesis  particularly in ftc and atc  and promotes progression of bta to ftc and to atc as the genetic alterations of this pathway accumulate. progression of ptc to atc may be facilitated by coexistence of pi3k/akt pathway-related genetic alterations and braf mutation. the pi3k/akt pathway may thus be a major therapeutic target in thyroid cancers.
3207,transcriptional regulation by p53 through intrinsic dna/chromatin binding and site-directed cofactor recruitment.,the tumor suppressor protein  p53  plays a critical role in mediating cellular response to stress signals by regulating genes involved in cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. p53 is believed to be inactive for dna binding unless its c terminus is modified or structurally altered. we show that unmodified p53 actively binds to two sites at -1.4 and -2.3 kb within the chromatin-assembled p21 promoter and requires the c terminus and the histone acetyltransferase  p300  for transcription. acetylation of the c terminus by p300 is not necessary for binding or promoter activation. instead  p300 acetylates p53-bound nucleosomes in the p21 promoter with spreading to the tata box. thus  p53 is an active dna and chromatin binding protein that may selectively regulate its target genes by recruitment of specific cofactors to structurally distinct binding sites.
3209,increasing the efficiency of precise genome editing with crispr-cas9 by inhibition of nonhomologous end joining,methods to introduce targeted double-strand breaks (dsbs) into dna enable precise genome editing by increasing the rate at which externally supplied dna fragments are incorporated into the genome through homologous recombination. the efficiency of these methods is limited by nonhomologous end joining (nhej)  an alternative dna repair pathway that competes with homology-directed repair (hdr). to promote hdr at the expense of nhej  we targeted dna ligase iv  a key enzyme in the nhej pathway  using the inhibitor scr7. scr7 treatment increased the efficiency of hdr-mediated genome editing  using cas9 in mammalian cell lines and in mice for all four genes examined  up to 19-fold. this approach should be applicable to other customizable endonucleases  such as zinc finger nucleases and transcription activator–like effector nucleases  and to nonmammalian cells with sufficiently conserved mechanisms of nhej and hdr.
3211,regulation of beta catenin signaling and parathyroid hormone anabolic effects in bone by the matricellular protein periostin.,periostin (postn) is a matricellular protein preferentially expressed by osteocytes and periosteal osteoblasts in response to mechanical stimulation and parathyroid hormone (pth). whether and how periostin expression influences bone anabolism  however  remains unknown. we investigated the skeletal response of adult postn(-/-) and postn(+/+) mice to intermittent pth. compared with postn(+/+)  postn(-/-) mice had a lower bone mass  cortical bone volume  and strength response to pth. pth-stimulated bone-forming indices were all significantly lower in postn(-/-) mice  particularly at the periosteum. furthermore  in vivo stimulation of wnt-β-catenin signaling by pth  as evaluated in topgal reporter mice  was inhibited in the absence of periostin (topgal;postn(-/-) mice). pth stimulated periostin and inhibited mef2c and sclerostin (sost) expression in bone and osteoblasts in vitro. recombinant periostin also suppressed sost expression  which was mediated through the integrin αvβ3 receptor  whereas periostin-blocking antibody prevented inhibition of mef2c and sost by pth. in turn  administration of a sost-blocking antiboby partially restored the pth-mediated increase in bone mass in postn(-/-) mice. in addition  primary osteoblasts from postn(-/-) mice showed a lower proliferation  mineralization  and migration  both spontaneously and in response to pth. osteoblastic gene expression levels confirmed a defect of postn(-/-) osteoblast differentiation with and without pth  as well as an increased osteoblast apoptosis in the absence of periostin. these data elucidate the complex role of periostin on bone anabolism  through the regulation of sost  wnt-β-catenin signaling  and osteoblast differentiation.
3213,the biphasic behavior of incoherent feed-forward loops in biomolecular regulatory networks.,an incoherent feed-forward loop (ffl) is one of the most-frequently observed motifs in biomolecular regulatory networks. it has been thought that the incoherent ffl is designed simply to induce a transient response shaped by a 'fast activation and delayed inhibition'. we find that the dynamics of various incoherent ffls can be further classified into two types: time-dependent biphasic responses and dose-dependent biphasic responses. why do the structurally identical incoherent ffls play such different dynamical roles? through computational studies  we show that the dynamics of the two types of incoherent ffls are mutually exclusive. following from further computational results and experimental observations  we hypothesize that incoherent ffls have been optimally designed to achieve distinct biological function arising from different cellular contexts. additional supporting information may be found in the online version of the article.
3215,structural basis for the activation of microtubule assembly by the eb1 and p150glued complex.,plus-end tracking proteins  such as eb1 and the dynein/dynactin complex  regulate microtubule dynamics. these proteins are thought to stabilize microtubules by forming a plus-end complex at microtubule growing ends with ill-defined mechanisms. here we report the crystal structure of two plus-end complex components  the carboxy-terminal dimerization domain of eb1 and the microtubule binding (cap-gly) domain of the dynactin subunit p150glued. each molecule of the eb1 dimer contains two helices forming a conserved four-helix bundle  while also providing p150glued binding sites in its flexible tail region. combining crystallography  nmr  and mutational analyses  our studies reveal the critical interacting elements of both eb1 and p150glued  whose mutation alters microtubule polymerization activity. moreover  removal of the key flexible tail from eb1 activates microtubule assembly by eb1 alone  suggesting that the flexible tail negatively regulates eb1 activity. we  therefore  propose that eb1 possesses an auto-inhibited conformation  which is relieved by p150glued as an allosteric activator.
3217,complex physiology and compound stress responses during fermentation of alkali-pretreated corn stover hydrolysate by an escherichia coli ethanologen.,the physiology of ethanologenic escherichia coli grown anaerobically in alkali-pretreated plant hydrolysates is complex and not well studied. to gain insight into how e. coli responds to such hydrolysates  we studied an e. coli k-12 ethanologen fermenting a hydrolysate prepared from corn stover pretreated by ammonia fiber expansion. despite the high sugar content (∼6% glucose  3% xylose) and relatively low toxicity of this hydrolysate  e. coli ceased growth long before glucose was depleted. nevertheless  the cells remained metabolically active and continued conversion of glucose to ethanol until all glucose was consumed. gene expression profiling revealed complex and changing patterns of metabolic physiology and cellular stress responses during an exponential growth phase  a transition phase  and the glycolytically active stationary phase. during the exponential and transition phases  high cell maintenance and stress response costs were mitigated  in part  by free amino acids available in the hydrolysate. however  after the majority of amino acids were depleted  the cells entered stationary phase  and atp derived from glucose fermentation was consumed entirely by the demands of cell maintenance in the hydrolysate. comparative gene expression profiling and metabolic modeling of the ethanologen suggested that the high energetic cost of mitigating osmotic  lignotoxin  and ethanol stress collectively limits growth  sugar utilization rates  and ethanol yields in alkali-pretreated lignocellulosic hydrolysates.
3219,coupling camp signaling to transcription in the liver: pivotal role of creb and crem.,transcriptional factors binding to camp-responsive elements (cres) in the promoters of various genes belong to the basic domain-leucine zipper superfamily and are composed of three genes in mammals  creb  crem  and atf-1. a large number of creb  crem  and atf-1 proteins are generated by posttranscriptional events  mostly alternative splicing  and regulate gene expression by acting as activators or repressors. activation is classically brought about by signaling-dependent phosphorylation of a key acceptor site (ser133 in creb) by a number of possible kinases  including pka  camkiv  and rsk-2. phosphorylation is the prerequisite for the interaction of cbp (creb-binding protein)  a co-activator that has also histone acetyltransferase activity. repression may involve dynamic dephosphorylation of the activators and thus decreased association with cbp. another pathway of transcriptional repression on cre sites implicates the inducible repressor icer (inducible camp early repressor)  a product of the crem gene. being an inducible repressor  icer is involved in autoregulatory feedback loops of transcription that govern the down-regulation of early response genes  such as the proto-oncogene c-fos. the liver represents a remarkable physiological setting where camp-responsive signaling plays a major role. indeed  a finely tuned program of gene expression is triggered by partial hepatectomy  so that through specific checkpoints a coordinated regeneration of the tissue is obtained. temporal kinetics of transcriptional activation after hepatectomy reveals a pattern of early induction for several genes  some of them controlled by the creb/crem transcription factors. an important role of crem in liver physiology was suggested by the robust induction of icer after partial hepatectomy. the delay in tissue regeneration in crem-deficient mice confirmed the important function of this factor in regulating hepatocyte proliferation. as gene induction is accompanied by critical changes in chromatin organization  the deciphering of the specific modification codes that histones display during liver regeneration and physiology will provide exciting new insights into the dynamics of chromatin architecture.
3221,substrate fate in activated macrophages: a comparison between innate  classic  and alternative activation.,macrophages play a relevant role in innate and adaptive immunity depending on the balance of the stimuli received. from an analytical and functional point of view  macrophage stimulation can be segregated into three main modes  as follows: innate  classic  and alternative pathways. these differential activations result in the expression of specific sets of genes involved in the release of pro- or anti-inflammatory stimuli. in the present work  we have analyzed whether specific metabolic patterns depend on the signaling pathway activated. a [1 2-(13)c(2)]glucose tracer-based metabolomics approach has been used to characterize the metabolic flux distributions in macrophages stimulated through the classic  innate  and alternative pathways. using this methodology combined with mass isotopomer distribution analysis of the new formed metabolites  the data show that activated macrophages are essentially glycolytic cells  and a clear cutoff between the classic/innate activation and the alternative pathway exists. interestingly  macrophage activation through lps/ifn-gamma or tlr-2  -3  -4  and -9 results in similar flux distribution patterns regardless of the pathway activated. however  stimulation through the alternative pathway has minor metabolic effects. the molecular basis of the differences between these two types of behavior involves a switch in the expression of 6-phosphofructo-2-kinase/fructose-2 6-bisphosphatase (pfk2) from the liver type-pfk2 to the more active ubiquitous pfk2 isoenzyme  which responds to hif-1alpha activation and increases fructose-2 6-bisphosphate concentration and the glycolytic flux. however  using macrophages targeted for hif-1alpha  the switch of pfk2 isoenzymes still occurs in lps/ifn-gamma-activated macrophages  suggesting that this pathway regulates ubiquitous pfk2 expression through hif-1alpha-independent mechanisms.
3223,central obesity and hyperinsulinaemia in women are associated with polymorphism in the 5' flanking region of the human insulin gene.,obesity is a multifactorial disease with a marked genetic component. the situation is further complicated by the heterogeneity of obesity demonstrated by the topographical distribution of body fat  e.g. upper body (central) and lower body (gluteal) obesity. furthermore  the distribution of fat shows a stronger heritable tendency compared with total body fat. central obesity is characterized by hyperinsulinaemia and insulin resistance  a feature in common with non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus  hypertension and atherosclerosis. in order to study the molecular genetics of central obesity we have examined 56 severely obese (mean body mass index 40)  unrelated british caucasoid young non-diabetic women for associations of restriction fragment length polymorphism of candidate genes with anthropometric measurements and indices of insulin secretion and resistance. the candidate genes examined were insulin receptor  insulin sensitive glucose transporter and insulin. an association of the class 3 allele of the hypervariable region in the 5' flanking region of the insulin gene was found with upper segment obesity (p = 0.005). furthermore  the class 3 allele was also associated with fasting hyperinsulinaemia (p = 0.01)  stimulated insulin secretion (p = 0.01) and insulin resistance as calculated from the homeostatic model of assessment (homa; p = 0.008). no such associations were found with the other candidate genes studied. this data suggests that polymorphisms in the 5' flanking region of the insulin gene may affect expression of the gene and thereby modulate insulin production in severely obese female subjects.
3225,circadian mechanisms in murine and human bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells following dexamethasone exposure.,a core group of regulatory factors control circadian rhythms in mammalian cells. while the suprachiasmatic nucleus in the brain serves as the central core circadian oscillator  circadian clocks also exist within peripheral tissues and cells. a growing body of evidence has demonstrated that >20% of expressed mrnas in bone and adipose tissues oscillate in a circadian manner. the current manuscript reports evidence of the core circadian transcriptional apparatus within primary cultures of murine and human bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (bmscs). exposure of confluent  quiescent bmscs to dexamethasone synchronized the oscillating expression of the mrnas encoding the albumin d binding protein (dbp)  brain-muscle arnt-like 1 (bmal1)  period 3 (per3)  rev-erb alpha (rev a)  and rev-erb beta (rev b). the genes displayed a mean oscillatory period of 22.2 to 24.3 h. the acrophase or peak expression of mrnas encoding "positive" (bmal1) and "negative" (per3) components of the circadian regulatory apparatus were out of phase with each other by approximately 8-12 h  consistent with in vivo observations. in vivo  phosphyrylation by glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (gsk3beta) is known to regulate the turnover of per3 and components of the core circadian regulatory apparatus. in vitro addition of lithium chloride  a gsk3beta inhibitor  significantly shifted the acrophase of all genes by 4.2-4.7 h oscillation in bmscs; however  only the male murine bmscs displayed a significant increase in the length of the period of oscillation. we conclude that human and murine bmscs represent a valid in vitro model for the analysis of circadian mechanisms in bone metabolism and stem cell biology.
3227,midbody accumulation through evasion of autophagy contributes to cellular reprogramming and tumorigenicity,the midbody is a singular organelle formed between daughter cells during cytokinesis and required for their final separation. midbodies persist in cells long after division as midbody derivatives (mbds)  but their fate is unclear. here we show that mbds are inherited asymmetrically by the daughter cell with the older centrosome. they selectively accumulate in stem cells  induced pluripotent stem cells and potential cancer ‘stem cells’ in vivo and in vitro. mbd loss accompanies stem-cell differentiation  and involves autophagic degradation mediated by binding of the autophagic receptor nbr1 to the midbody protein cep55. differentiating cells and normal dividing cells do not accumulate mbds and possess high autophagic activity. stem cells and cancer cells accumulate mbds by evading autophagosome encapsulation and exhibit low autophagic activity. mbd enrichment enhances reprogramming to induced pluripotent stem cells and increases the in vitro tumorigenicity of cancer cells. these results indicate unexpected roles for mbds in stem cells and cancer ‘stem cells’.
3229,chronic hepatitis b infection: a review,importance more than 240 million individuals worldwide are infected with chronic hepatitis b virus (hbv). among individuals with chronic hbv infection who are untreated  15% to 40% progress to cirrhosis  which may lead to liver failure and liver cancer. observations pegylated interferon and nucleos(t)ide analogues (lamivudine  adefovir  entecavir  tenofovir disoproxil  and tenofovir alafenamide) suppress hbv dna replication and improve liver inflammation and fibrosis. long-term viral suppression is associated with regression of liver fibrosis and reduced risk of hepatocellular carcinoma in cohort studies. the cure (defined as hepatitis b surface antigen loss with undetectable hbv dna) rates after treatment remain low (3%-7% with pegylated interferon and 1%-12% with nucleos[t]ide analogue therapy). pegylated interferon therapy can be completed in 48 weeks and is not associated with the development of resistance; however  its use is limited by poor tolerability and adverse effects such as bone marrow suppression and exacerbation of existing neuropsychiatric symptoms such as depression. newer agents (entecavir  tenofovir disoproxil  and tenofovir alafenamide) may be associated with a significantly reduced risk of drug resistance compared with older agents (lamivudine and adefovir) and should be considered as the first-line treatment. conclusions and relevance antiviral treatment with either pegylated interferon or a nucleos(t)ide analogue (lamivudine  adefovir  entecavir  tenofovir disoproxil  or tenofovir alafenamide) should be offered to patients with chronic hbv infection and liver inflammation in an effort to reduce progression of liver disease. nucleos(t)ide analogues should be considered as first-line therapy. because cure rates are low  most patients will require therapy indefinitely.
3231,t-cell-antigen recognition and the immunological synapse,much excitement of the past five years in the area of t-cell-antigen recognition has centred around the immunological synapse — a complex cellular structure that forms at the interface of a t cell and a cell that expresses the appropriate peptide–mhc complexes. thanks to new imaging technologies  we are now beginning to understand the role of cell-surface molecules and some of their attendant signalling modules in the context of cell-to-cell communication. progress has been so rapid that t-cell-antigen recognition might be the first system in which the molecular basis of cell–cell recognition is understood.
3233,influence of lifestyle modification on arterial stiffness and wave reflections.,arterial stiffness and wave reflections exert a number of adverse effects on cardiovascular function and disease risk and are associated with a greater rate of mortality in patients with end-stage renal failure and essential hypertension. accordingly  the prevention and treatment of arterial stiffness are of paramount importance. because arterial stiffening is being recognized as a critical precursor of cardiovascular disease (cvd)  it is essential to understand the role of lifestyle modifications on preventing and reversing arterial stiffening. available evidence indicates that lifestyle modifications  in particular aerobic exercise and sodium restriction  appear to be clinically efficacious therapeutic interventions for preventing and treating arterial stiffening. thus  sufficient evidence is available to recommend lifestyle modifications as part of a first-line therapeutic approach for arterial stiffening. however  more information is needed for a full understanding and optimal use of lifestyle modifications in the management of arterial stiffening.
3235,effects of powered mobility on self-initiated behaviors of very young children with locomotor disability.,this study reports the effects of powered mobility on the self-initiated behavior of six children with various disabilities who  between 23 and 38 months of age  learnt to use motorized wheelchairs in less than three weeks. using a multiple baseline design  two-hour observation periods were video-recorded at 10-day intervals before and after they achieved independent mobility. frequency of self-initiated interaction with objects  spatial exploration and communication with care-giver were analyzed. three children increased all three types of behavior; one increased in two types but decreased in interaction with objects; and two increased in spatial exploration only.
3237,bone morphogenetic protein signaling in nephron progenitor cells,bone morphogenetic protein (bmp) signaling plays an essential role in many aspects of kidney development  and is a major determinant of outcome in kidney injury. bmp treatment is also an essential component of protocols for differentiation of nephron progenitors from pluripotent stem cells. this review discusses the role of bmp signaling to nephron progenitor cells in each of these contexts.
3239,epigenetic instability in es cells and cloned mice.,cloning by nuclear transfer (nt) is an inefficient process in which most clones die before birth and survivors often display growth abnormalities. in an effort to correlate gene expression with survival and fetal overgrowth  we have examined imprinted gene expression in both mice cloned by nuclear transfer and in the embryonic stem (es) cell donor populations from which they were derived. the epigenetic state of the es cell genome was found to be extremely unstable. similarly  variation in imprinted gene expression was observed in most cloned mice  even in those derived from es cells of the same subclone. many of the animals survived to adulthood despite widespread gene dysregulation  indicating that mammalian development may be rather tolerant to epigenetic aberrations of the genome. these data imply that even apparently normal cloned animals may have subtle abnormalities in gene expression.
3241,role of pacap and vip in astroglial functions.,astrocytes represent at least 50% of the volume of the human brain. besides their roles in various supportive functions  astrocytes are involved in the regulation of stem cell proliferation  synaptic plasticity and neuroprotection. astrocytes also influence neuronal physiology by responding to neurotransmitters and neuropeptides and by releasing regulatory factors termed gliotransmitters. in particular  astrocytes express the pacap-specific receptor pac1-r and the pacap/vip mutual receptors vpac1-r and vpac2-r during development and/or in the adult. there is now clear evidence that pacap and vip modulate a number of astrocyte activities such as proliferation  plasticity  glycogen production  and biosynthesis of neurotrophic factors and gliotransmitters.
3243,coping and satisfaction with growth hormone treatment among short-stature children.,the ability of children to cope with a chronic medical problem requiring prolonged treatment has an effect on the quality of life of these children and of their parents and serves as an index of the quality of treatment. this study deals with coping ability and satisfaction with treatment of children whose stature was two or more sd below the average for age and gender. the study population included 96 patients  53 of whom were male  who were on growth hormone (gh) treatment for at least 1 year. 65 patients were without any underlying disease  15 had classical gh deficiency and 16 had turner syndrome or renal disease. all patients were treated with daily injections at home from 12 to 66 months. using a self-administered questionnaire  the ability to cope and the degree of satisfaction and compliance with treatment were assessed. no significant differences were found with respect to gender  the presence of an underlying disease  age at which treatment commenced or duration of treatment. despite the fact that the outcome of gh treatment on final height has yet to be established  satisfaction and compliance were high.
3245,accurate coarse-grained modeling of red blood cells.,we develop a systematic coarse-graining procedure for modeling red blood cells (rbcs) using arguments based on mean-field theory. the three-dimensional rbc membrane model takes into account the bending energy  in-plane shear energy  and constraints of fixed surface area and fixed enclosed volume. the coarse-graining procedure is general  it can be used for arbitrary level of coarse-graining and does not employ any fitting parameters. the sensitivity of the coarse-grained model is investigated and its behavior is validated against available experimental data and in dissipative particle dynamics (dpd) simulations of rbcs in capillary and shear flows.
3247,treatment and management of graft-versus-host disease: improving response and survival.,graft-versus-host disease (gvhd) is a significant cause of morbidity and mortality following allogenic haematopoietic stem-cell transplantation and thus the focus of much ongoing research. despite considerable advances in our understanding of the pathophysiology  diagnosis and predisposing factors for both acute and chronic forms of the disease  a standardised therapeutic strategy is still lacking. there is good evidence for initial treatment of both acute and chronic forms of the disease with corticosteroid therapy. however  the most effective approach to steroid-refractory disease remains controversial  with current practice based mainly on smaller studies and varying considerably between local institutions. timely diagnosis  multidisciplinary working and good supportive care  including infection prophylaxis  are clearly important in optimizing response and survival in such patients. it is hoped that in the future systematic research strategies and the identification of novel therapeutic targets may improve outcome further. the following review aims to outline some of the existing options for the treatment and management of acute and chronic gvhd.
3249,development of a syngeneic mouse model for events related to ovarian cancer.,mouse ovarian surface epithelial cells (mosec) were obtained from virgin  mature mice by mild trypsinization and were repeatedly passaged in vitro. early passage cells (<20 passages) exhibited a cobblestone morphology and contact inhibition of growth. after approximately 20 passages in vitro  cobblestone morphology and contact inhibition of growth was lost. tumor forming potential was determined by s.c. and i.p. injection of early and late passage cells into athymic and syngeneic c57bl6 mice. subcutaneous tumors formed in approximately 4 months and were present only at the injection site. intraperitoneal injection of late passage mosec into athymic and syngeneic mice resulted in growth of tumor implants throughout the abdominal cavity  and production of hemorrhagic ascitic fluid. early passage mosec did not form tumors in vivo. histopathologic analysis of tumors revealed a highly malignant neoplasm containing both carcinomatous and sarcomatous components. late passage mosec expressed cytokeratin and did not produce ovarian steroids in response to gonadotropin stimulation in vitro. ten clonal lines were established from late passage mosec. each clone formed multiple peritoneal tumors and ascitic fluid after i.p. injection into c57bl6 mice. three cell lines examined cytogenetically were polyploid with near-tetraploid modal chromosome numbers. common clonal chromosome gains and losses included +5  +15  +19 and -x  -3  -4. one cell line had a clonal translocation between chromosomes 15 and 18 and another had a small marker chromosome; common structural abnormalities were not observed. these data describe the development of a mouse model for the study of events related to ovarian cancer in humans. the ability of the mosec to form extensive tumors within the peritoneal cavity  similar to those seen in women with stage iii and iv cancer  and the ability of the mosec to produce tumors in mice with intact immune systems  makes this model unique for investigations of molecular and immune interactions in ovarian cancer development.
3251,knowledge and practice of standard precautions and awareness regarding post-exposure prophylaxis for hiv among interns of a medical college in west bengal  india.,objectives to assess the knowledge of interns on standard precautions and post-exposure prophylaxis for hiv  and identify the gap between knowledge and practice relating to standard precautions  as well as determining the perceived barriers against adherence to standard precautions. methods the study was conducted on 130 interns of 2010-11 batch from a government-run medical college in kolkata  india. all participants completed a self-administered questionnaire with items relating to basic components of standard precautions and post-exposure prophylaxis for hiv. the questionnaire also included open ended questions relating to reasons for non-adherence to the practice of standard precautions along with additional space for specific comments  if any. results poor adherence in the use of personal protective equipment  hand washing  safe handling and disposal of needles and sharp objects were found to be among the practices for which the interns expressed correct knowledge. while the main reasons for non-adherence were found to be clumsiness in handling needles  wearing gloves  feeling uncomfortable when wearing aprons  impracticality of regular hand-washing and non-availability of equipment. although the majority of the respondents (84.6%) expressed awareness of washing sites of injured with soap and water  approximately 32.3% did not know that antiseptics could cause more damage. also  only 63.8% expressed awareness of reporting any incidence of occupational exposure  while knowledge on post-exposure prophylaxis regimens was generally found to be poor. conclusion the considerable gap between knowledge and practice of standard precautions and inadequate knowledge of post-exposure prophylaxis emphasizes the need for continuous onsite training of interns with supportive supervision and monitoring of their activities.
3253,economic impact of primary open-angle glaucoma in australia.,background glaucoma is the world's leading cause of irreversible blindness  and poses serious public health and economic concerns. design   review. samples published randomized trials and population-based studies since 1985. methods we report the economic impact of primary open-angle glaucoma and model the effect of changes in detection rates and management strategies. main outcome measures the cost-effectiveness of different interventions to prevent vision loss from primary open-angle glaucoma was measured in terms of financial cost (australian dollars) and disability-adjusted life years. results the prevalence of glaucoma in australia is expected to increase from 208 000 in 2005 to 379 000 in 2025 because of the aging population. health system costs over the same time period are estimated to increase from $au355 million to $au784 million. total costs (health system costs  indirect costs and costs of loss of well-being) will increase from $au1.9 billion to $au4.3 billion in australia. conclusion primary open-angle glaucoma poses a significant economic burden  which will increase substantially by 2025. this dynamic model provides a valuable tool for ongoing policy formulation and determining the economic impact of interventions to better prevent visual impairment and blindness from glaucoma.
3255,signal transduction proteins that associate with the platelet-derived growth factor (pdgf) receptor mediate the pdgf-induced release of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase from permeabilized cells.,permeabilized rat kidney cells rapidly released glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (g6pd) following stimulation with peptide growth factors (stanton  r.c.  seifter  j.l.  boxer  d.c.  zimmerman  e.  and cantley  l. c. (1991) j. biol. chem. 266  12442-12448). to evaluate the signal transduction pathways mediating release of g6pd  two cell lines transfected with wild type or mutant platelet-derived growth factor (pdgf) receptors (pdgfr) were studied using two permeabilization protocols. g6pd release was evaluated by enzyme activity and western blot analysis. pdgf caused a significant increase in g6pd release in 1 min in cells transfected with wild type pdgfr. pdgf did not stimulate g6pd release in cells transfected with tyrosine kinase-deficient pdgfr. pdgf did not stimulate g6pd release in cells transfected with partially autophosphorylation-deficient pdgfr in which four known signaling proteins do not associate with the pdgfr. the pdgf-stimulated release of g6pd was partially restored in pdgfr mutants in which either phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase or phospholipase c gamma 1 could associate with the pdgfr. lastly  there was no basal or pdgf-stimulated phosphorylation of g6pd. we conclude that release of g6pd: 1) requires intrinsic pdgfr tyrosine kinase activity; 2) requires pdgfr autophosphorylation; 3) is mediated by signaling proteins that associate with the pdgfr; 4) is not mediated by direct phosphorylation of g6pd.
3257,physiological implications of hydrogen sulfide: a whiff exploration that blossomed.,the important life-supporting role of hydrogen sulfide (h(2)s) has evolved from bacteria to plants  invertebrates  vertebrates  and finally to mammals. over the centuries  however  h(2)s had only been known for its toxicity and environmental hazard. physiological importance of h(2)s has been appreciated for about a decade. it started by the discovery of endogenous h(2)s production in mammalian cells and gained momentum by typifying this gasotransmitter with a variety of physiological functions. the h(2)s-catalyzing enzymes are differentially expressed in cardiovascular  neuronal  immune  renal  respiratory  gastrointestinal  reproductive  liver  and endocrine systems and affect the functions of these systems through the production of h(2)s. the physiological functions of h(2)s are mediated by different molecular targets  such as different ion channels and signaling proteins. alternations of h(2)s metabolism lead to an array of pathological disturbances in the form of hypertension  atherosclerosis  heart failure  diabetes  cirrhosis  inflammation  sepsis  neurodegenerative disease  erectile dysfunction  and asthma  to name a few. many new technologies have been developed to detect endogenous h(2)s production  and novel h(2)s-delivery compounds have been invented to aid therapeutic intervention of diseases related to abnormal h(2)s metabolism. while acknowledging the challenges ahead  research on h(2)s physiology and medicine is entering an exponential exploration era.
3259,function and regulation of sumo proteases,covalent attachment of small ubiquitin-like modifier (sumo) to proteins is highly dynamic  and both sumo–protein conjugation and cleavage can be regulated. protein desumoylation is carried out by sumo proteases  which control cellular mechanisms ranging from transcription and cell division to ribosome biogenesis. recent advances include the discovery of two novel classes of sumo proteases  insights regarding sumo protease specificity  and revelations of previously unappreciated sumo protease functions in several key cellular pathways. these developments  together with new connections between sumo proteases and the recently discovered sumo-targeted ubiquitin ligases (stubls)  make this an exciting period to study these enzymes.
3261,pain catastrophizing and general health status in a large dutch community sample.,the aim of the present study was to examine the association between pain catastrophizing and general health status in a dutch adult community sample  including various subgroups of people with musculoskeletal pain in the analyses. for exploratory reasons this study partly replicated previous studies of the factor structure  reliability  and validity of the pain catastrophizing scale (pcs). results demonstrated that across different pain subgroups  catastrophizing uniquely contributed variance to the prediction of the various aspects of general health status beyond the variance explained by pain intensity  age  gender  and chronicity. across subgroups strongest associations were found between catastrophizing and mental health  general health perception  social functioning  and vitality. furthermore  the association between catastrophizing and the various aspects of general health status was not moderated by the chronicity of the pain. results of the confirmatory factor analysis statistically confirmed a three-factor model of the pcs  which was invariant across different subgroups of people with musculoskeletal pain. inter-factor correlations were high  and the incremental explanatory power of the three-factor model over that of a one-factor model was only marginal. this implies that a one-factor model might be justifiable as well  at least in the general community. across various pain subgroups the reliability of the pcs total and subscales was adequate. additional evidence for the concurrent validity of the pcs was found as well.
3263,accuracy of weighed dietary records in studies of diet and health.,objective to provide an independent evaluation of seven day weighed dietary records  which are currently accepted as the most accurate technique for assessing habitual dietary intake in studies investigating the links between diet and health. design subjects who had previously participated in the northern ireland diet and health study were reselected by stratified random sampling to represent the range of energy intakes in the study as assessed by the seven day weighed dietary record. setting northern ireland. subjects 31 free living adults (16 men and 15 women). main outcome measures energy intake as measured by the seven day weighed dietary record and total energy expenditure estimated concurrently by the doubly labelled water technique. results average recorded energy intakes were significantly lower than measured expenditure in the group overall (9.66 mj/day v 12.15 mj/day  95% confidence interval 1.45 to 3.53 mj/day). among those in the upper third of energy intakes the mean (se) ratio of intake to expenditure was close to 1.0  indicating accurate records (men 1.01 (0.11)  women 0.96 (0.08]. in the middle and lower thirds the ratios for men were only 0.74 (0.05) and 0.70 (0.07) respectively and for women 0.89 (0.07) and 0.61 (0.07). conclusions these results show a serious bias in reporting habitual energy intake. if substantiated they may have wide implications for the interpretation of many nutritional studies.
3265,menstrual and reproductive factors in relation to mammographic density: the study of women’s health across the nation (swan),menstrual and reproductive factors may increase breast cancer risk through a pathway that includes increased mammographic density. we assessed whether known or suspected menstrual and reproductive breast cancer risk factors were cross-sectionally associated with mammographic density  by measuring area of radiographic density and total breast area on mammograms from 801 participants in the study of women’s health across the nation (swan)  a multi-ethnic cohort of pre- and early perimenopausal women. from multivariable linear regression  the following menstrual or reproductive factors were independently associated with percent mammographic density (area of dense breast/breast area): older age at menarche (β = 10.3  p < 0.01  for >13 vs. <12 years)  premenstrual cravings and bloating (β = −3.36  p = 0.02)  younger age at first full-term birth (β = −8.12  p < 0.01 for ≤23 years versus no births)  greater number of births (β = −6.80  p < 0.01 for ≥3 births versus no births)  and premenopausal status (β = 3.78  p < 0.01 versus early perimenopausal). only number of births remained associated with percent density after adjustment for age  race/ethnicity  study site  body mass index (bmi)  and smoking. in addition  stratified analyses revealed that the association with number of births was confined to women within the lowest bmi tertile (β = −12.2  p < 0.01 for ≥3 births versus no births). our data support a mechanism for parity and breast cancer that involves mammographic density among pre- and early perimenopausal women that may be modified by body size.
3267,changes in the levels of inositol phosphates after agonist-dependent hydrolysis of membrane phosphoinositides.,the formation of inositol phosphates in response to agonists was studied in brain slices  parotid gland fragments and in the insect salivary gland. the tissues were first incubated with [3h]inositol  which was incorporated into the phosphoinositides. all the tissues were found to contain glycerophosphoinositol  inositol 1-phosphate  inositol 1 4-bisphosphate and inositol 1 4 5-trisphosphate  which were identified by using anion-exchange and high-resolution anion-exchange chromatography  high-voltage paper ionophoresis and paper chromatography. there was no evidence for the existence of inositol 1:2-cyclic phosphate. a simple anion-exchange chromatographic method was developed for separating these inositol phosphates for quantitative analysis. stimulation caused no change in the levels of glycerophosphoinositol in any of the tissues. the most prominent change concerned inositol 1 4-bisphosphate  which increased enormously in the insect salivary gland and parotid gland after stimulation with 5-hydroxytryptamine and carbachol respectively. carbachol also induced a large increase in the level of inositol 1 4 5-trisphosphate in the parotid. stimulation of brain slices with carbachol induced modest increase in the bis- and tris-phosphate. in all the tissues studied  there was a significant agonist-dependent increase in the level of inositol 1-phosphate. the latter may be derived from inositol 1 4-bisphosphate  because homogenates of the insect salivary gland contain a bisphosphatase in addition to a trisphosphatase. these results suggest that the earliest event in the stimulus-response pathway is the hydrolysis of polyphosphoinositides by a phosphodiesterase to yield inositol 1 4 5-trisphosphate and inositol 1 4-bisphosphate  which are subsequently hydrolysed to inositol 1-phosphate and inositol. the absence of inositol 1:2-cyclic phosphate could indicate that  at very short times after stimulation  phosphatidylinositol is not catabolized by its specific phosphodiesterase  or that any cyclic derivative liberated is rapidly hydrolysed by inositol 1:2-cyclic phosphate 2-phosphohydrolase.
3269,post-translational modifications of the beta-1 subunit of amp-activated protein kinase affect enzyme activity and cellular localization.,the amp-activated protein kinase (ampk) is a ubiquitous mammalian protein kinase important in the adaptation of cells to metabolic stress. the enzyme is a heterotrimer  consisting of a catalytic alpha subunit and regulatory beta and gamma subunits  each of which is a member of a larger isoform family. the enzyme is allosterically regulated by amp and by phosphorylation of the alpha subunit. the beta subunit is post-translationally modified by myristoylation and multi-site phosphorylation. in the present study  we have examined the impact of post-translational modification of the beta-1 subunit on enzyme activity  heterotrimer assembly and subcellular localization  using site-directed mutagenesis and expression of subunits in mammalian cells. removal of the myristoylation site (g2a mutant) results in a 4-fold activation of the enzyme and relocalization of the beta subunit from a particulate extranuclear distribution to a more homogenous cell distribution. mutation of the serine-108 phosphorylation site to alanine is associated with enzyme inhibition  but no change in cell localization. in contrast  the phosphorylation site mutations  ss24  25aa and s182a  while having no effects on enzyme activity  are associated with nuclear redistribution of the subunit. taken together  these results indicate that both myristoylation and phosphorylation of the beta subunit of ampk modulate enzyme activity and subunit cellular localization  increasing the complexity of ampk regulation.
3271,structural analysis of multiprotein complexes by cross-linking  mass spectrometry  and database searching.,most protein complexes are inaccessible to high resolution structural analysis. we report the results of a combined approach of cross-linking  mass spectrometry  and bioinformatics to two human complexes containing large coiled-coil segments  the ndel1 homodimer and the ndc80 heterotetramer. an important limitation of the cross-linking approach  so far  was the identification of cross-linked peptides from fragmentation spectra. our novel approach overcomes the data analysis bottleneck of cross-linking and mass spectrometry. we constructed a purpose-built database to match spectra with cross-linked peptides  define a score that expresses the quality of our identification  and estimate false positive rates. we show that our analysis sheds light on critical structural parameters such as the directionality of the homodimeric coiled coil of ndel1  the register of the heterodimeric coiled coils of the ndc80 complex  and the organization of a tetramerization region in the ndc80 complex. our approach is especially useful to address complexes that are difficult in addressing by standard structural methods.
3273,methylphenidate-induced erections in a prepubertal child.,methylphenidate is a medication used routinely in the management of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. we report a case of a prepubertal child who developed unwanted erections after commencing a response-adjusted dosing regimen of sustained release methylphenidate. despite priapism being a rare adverse reaction associated with methylphenidate  physicians and parents need to be aware as it can have significant long-term complications.
3275,monte carlo tests for associations between disease and alleles at highly polymorphic loci.,in an association analysis comparing cases and controls with respect to allele frequencies at a highly polymorphic locus  a potential problem is that the conventional chi-squared test may not be valid for a large  sparse contingency table. however  reliance on statistics with known asymptotic distribution is now unnecessary  as monte carlo simulations can be performed to estimate the significance level of any test statistic. we have implemented a monte carlo method for four 'chi-squared' test statistics  three of which involved combination of alleles  and evaluated their performance on a real data set. combining rare alleles to avoid small expected cell counts  and considering each allele in turn against the rest  reduced the power to detect a genuine association when the number of alleles was very large. we should either not combine alleles at all  or combine them in such a way that preserves the evidence for an association.
3277,late-life depression and microstructural abnormalities in dorsolateral prefrontal cortex white matter.,objective the purpose of this study was to determine whether microstructural abnormalities in the white matter of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex are associated with late-life depression. method seventeen elderly depressed subjects were compared with 16 elderly subjects who were not depressed. diffusion tensor imaging was used to measure the fractional anisotropy of the white matter in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex's superior and middle frontal gyri bilaterally and in the left occipital lobe as a control region. the authors compared results between groups while controlling for age  sex  and comorbid medical disorders. results even after controlling for age  sex  hypertension  and heart disease  the authors found significantly lower fractional anisotropy values in the right superior frontal gyrus white matter of depressed patients than comparison subjects. conclusions microstructural changes in the white matter of the right superior frontal gyrus are associated with late-life depression. further work is needed to determine how these changes contribute to depression outcomes.
3279,prognostic impact of the mean platelet volume/platelet count ratio in terms of survival in advanced non-small cell lung cancer.,background mean platelet volume (mpv) is a platelet volume index. classically  mpv was recognized as a hallmark of platelet activation. recent studies have revealed that the mpv and mpv/platelet count (pc) ratio can predict long-term mortality in patients with ischemic cardio-vascular disease. in addition  these indices were correlated with the pathophysiological characteristics of patients with various disorders  including malignant tumors. patients and methods we retrospectively analyzed various hematological indices of patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc). the aim of this study was to evaluate the contribution of platelet volume indices to survival in these patients. results a total of 268 patients were enrolled in the study. the median age of the patients was 68 years (range: 31-87 years). we compared various hematological indices between the nsclc group and an age- and sex-matched comparator group. mpv was significantly decreased in the nsclc group compared to the comparator group. in contrast  the pc was significantly increased in the nsclc group. consequently  the mpv/pc ratio was also decreased in the nsclc group (0.397 vs. 0.501). in receiver operating characteristics (roc) curve analysis  the mpv/pc ratio was associated with a sensitivity of 62.3% and a specificity of 74.6% at a cutoff value of 0.408730 (area under the curve [auc]  0.72492)]. univariate analysis revealed that overall survival (os) was significantly shorter in the group with a low mpv/pc ratio than in the other group (median survival time [mst]: 10.3 months vs. 14.5 months  log-rank  p=0.0245). multivariate analysis confirmed that a low mpv/pc ratio was an independent unfavorable predictive factor for os (hazard ratio [hr]: 1.668  95% confidence interval [ci]: 1.235-2.271  p=0.0008). conclusion these data clearly demonstrate that the mpv/pc ratio was closely associated with survival in patients with advanced nsclc.
3281,regulation of self-ligands for activating natural killer cell receptors.,natural killer (nk) cells are able to lyse infected and tumor cells while sparing healthy cells. recognition of diseased cells by nk cells is governed by several activating and inhibitory receptors. we review numerous pathways that have been implicated in the regulation of self-ligands for activating receptors  including nkg2d  dnam-1  lfa-1  nkp30  nkp44  nkp46  nkp65  and nkp80 found on nk cells and some t cells. understanding how the regulation of self-encoded ligand expression is regulated may provide novel avenues for future therapeutic approaches to infections and cancer.
3283,a myeloid hypoxia-inducible factor 1α-krüppel-like factor 2 pathway regulates gram-positive endotoxin-mediated sepsis.,although gram-positive infections account for the majority of cases of sepsis  the molecular mechanisms underlying their effects remains poorly understood. we investigated how cell wall components of gram-positive bacteria contribute to the development of sepsis. experimental observations derived from cultured primary macrophages and the cell line indicate that gram-positive bacterial endotoxins induce hypoxia-inducible factor 1α (hif-1α) mrna and protein expression. inoculation of live or heat-inactivated gram-positive bacteria with macrophages induced hif-1 transcriptional activity in macrophages. concordant with these results  myeloid deficiency of hif-1α attenuated gram-positive bacterial endotoxin-induced cellular motility and proinflammatory gene expression in macrophages. conversely  gram-positive bacteria and their endotoxins reduced expression of the myeloid anti-inflammatory transcription factor krüppel-like transcription factor 2 (klf2). sustained expression of klf2 reduced and deficiency of klf2 enhanced gram-positive endotoxins induced hif-1α mrna and protein expression in macrophages. more importantly  klf2 attenuated gram-positive endotoxins induced cellular motility and proinflammatory gene expression in myeloid cells. consistent with these results  mice deficient in myeloid hif-1α were protected from gram-positive endotoxin-induced sepsis mortality and clinical symptomatology. by contrast  myeloid klf2-deficient mice were susceptible to gram-positive sepsis induced mortality and clinical symptoms. collectively  these observations identify hif-1α and klf2 as critical regulators of gram-positive endotoxin-mediated sepsis.
3285,pi3k-akt-mtorc1-s6k1/2 axis controls th17 differentiation by regulating gfi1 expression and nuclear translocation of rorγ.,the pi3k-akt-mtorc1 axis contributes to the activation  survival  and proliferation of cd4(+) t cells upon stimulation through tcr and cd28. here  we demonstrate that the suppression of this axis by deletion of p85α or pi3k/mtorc1 inhibitors as well as t cell-specific deletion of raptor  an essential component of mtorc1  impairs th17 differentiation in vitro and in vivo in a s6k1/2-dependent fashion. inhibition of pi3k-akt-mtorc1-s6k1 axis impairs the downregulation of gfi1  a negative regulator of th17 differentiation. furthermore  we demonstrate that s6k2  a nuclear counterpart of s6k1  is induced by the pi3k-akt-mtorc1 axis  binds rorγ  and carries rorγ to the nucleus. these results point toward a pivotal role of pi3k-akt-mtorc1-s6k1/2 axis in th17 differentiation.
3287,monoclonal antibody targeting of n-cadherin inhibits prostate cancer growth  metastasis and castration resistance,the transition from androgen-dependent to castration-resistant prostate cancer (crpc) is a lethal event of uncertain molecular etiology. comparing gene expression in isogenic androgen-dependent and crpc xenografts  we found a reproducible increase in n-cadherin expression  which was also elevated in primary and metastatic tumors of individuals with crpc. ectopic expression of n-cadherin in nonmetastatic  androgen-dependent prostate cancer models caused castration resistance  invasion and metastasis. monoclonal antibodies against the ectodomain of n-cadherin reduced proliferation  adhesion and invasion of prostate cancer cells in vitro. in vivo  these antibodies slowed the growth of multiple established crpc xenografts  blocked local invasion and metastasis and  at higher doses  led to complete regression. n-cadherin–specific antibodies markedly delayed the time to emergence of castration resistance  markedly affected tumor histology and angiogenesis  and reduced both akt serine-threonine kinase activity and serum interleukin-8 (il-8) secretion. these data indicate that n-cadherin is a major cause of both prostate cancer metastasis and castration resistance. therapeutic targeting of this factor with monoclonal antibodies may have considerable clinical benefit.
3289,human artificial chromosomes containing chromosome 17 alphoid dna maintain an active centromere in murine cells but are not stable.,human artificial chromosomes (hacs) are autonomous molecules that can function and segregate as normal chromosomes in human cells. de novo hacs have successfully been used as gene expression vectors to complement genetic deficiencies in human cultured cells. hacs now offer the possibility of studying the regulation and expression of large genes in a variety of cell types from different tissues and correcting gene deficiencies caused by human inherited diseases. complementary gene expression studies in mice  especially in mouse models of human genetic diseases  are also important in determining if large human transgenes can be expressed appropriately from artificial chromosomes. toward this aim we are establishing artificial chromosomes in murine cells as novel gene expression vectors. initially we transferred hac vectors into murine cells  but were unable to generate de novo hacs at a reasonable frequency. we then transferred hacs previously established in human ht1080 cells to three different murine cell types by microcell fusion  followed by positive selection. we observed that the hacs in murine cells bound centromere protein c (cenp-c)  a marker of active centromeres  and were detected under selection but rapidly lost when selection was removed. these results suggest that the hacs maintain at least a partially functional centromere complex in murine cells  but other factors are required for stability and segregation. artificial chromosomes containing mouse centromeric sequences may be required for better stability and maintenance in murine cells.
3291,purification and structural characterization of bovine cathelicidins  precursors of antimicrobial peptides.,cathelicidins are a novel family of antimicrobial peptide precursors from mammalian myeloid cells. they are characterized by a conserved n-terminal region while the c-terminal antimicrobial domain can vary considerably in both primary sequence and length. four cathelicidins  probac5  probac7  prododecapeptide and probmap-28  have been concurrently purified from bovine neutrophils  using simple and rapid methodologies. the correlation of es-ms data from the purified proteins with their cdna-deduced sequences has revealed several common features of their primary sequence  such as the presence of n-terminal 5-oxoproline (pyroglutamate) residues and two disulfide bridges in a 1-2  3-4 arrangement. the n-terminal domains of the cathelicidins present one or two asp-pro bonds  which are particularly acid-labile in probac5 and probac7  but stable in prododecapeptide. this suggests that the spatial organization around these bonds may vary in different cathelicidins  and favour hydrolysis in some cases. an unexpected feature of the prododecapeptide is that it exists as dimers formed by three possible combinations of its two isoforms. the isolation of a truncated  monomeric form of this protein  lacking the cysteine-containing antimicrobial dodecapeptide  indicates that dimerization occurs via disulfide bridge formation at the level of the c-terminal domain and that the dodecapeptide is likely released as a dimer from its precursor. sequence-based secondary structure predictions and cd results indicate for cathelicidins a 30-50% content of extended conformation and <20% content of alpha-helical conformation  with the alpha-helical segment placed near the n-terminus. finally  similarity searching and topology-based structure prediction underline a significant sequential and structural similarity between the conserved n-terminal domain of cathelicidins and cystatin-like domains  placing this family within the cystatin superfamily. when assayed against cathepsin l  unlike the potent cystatin inhibitors  three of the four cathelicidins show only a poor inhibitory activity (ki = 0.6-3 microm).
3293,noncognate interaction with mhc class ii molecules is essential for maintenance of t cell metabolism to establish optimal memory cd4 t cell function.,cd4 memory t cells surviving in the absence of mhc class ii contact lose their characteristic memory function. to investigate the mechanisms underlying the impaired function of memory t cells in the absence of mhc class ii molecules  we analyzed gene expression profiles of resting memory t cells isolated from mhc class ii-competent or -deficient hosts. the analysis focused on five transcripts related to t cell activation  metabolism  and survival that are underexpressed in resting memory t cells from mhc class ii-deficient hosts compared with mhc class ii-competent hosts. cd4 memory cells isolated from mhc class ii-deficient hosts display alterations in their degree of differentiation as well as metabolic activity  and these changes are already manifest in the effector phase despite the presence of ag-expressing dendritic cells. our data suggest that the absence of interactions with noncognate mhc class ii molecules compromises the progressive accumulation of signals that ensure optimal survival and fitness to sustain the metabolic activity of activated t cells and shape the functional capacity of the future memory compartment. signals via akt coordinate survival and metabolic pathways and may be one of the crucial events linking interaction with mhc class ii molecules to the successful generation of a long-lived functional memory cd4 t cell population.
3295,caregiver burden in hiv-positive and hiv-negative partners of men with aids.,this study examines factors associated with caregiver burden in 82 hiv-positive (hiv+) and 162 hiv-negative (hiv-) partners of men with aids. we expected hiv+ caregivers to report more burden than hiv- caregivers because of the toll of their disease on their resources. hiv+ caregivers did report more burden and  compared with the hiv- caregivers  they were more religious or spiritual  had less income  and coped by using more positive reappraisal and cognitive escape-avoidance and by seeking social support. comparisons of hiv+ caregivers with 61 hiv+ partners of healthy men indicated that most differences between hiv+ and hiv- caregivers were associated with hiv seropositivity rather than caregiving. however  of the variables associated with hiv seropositivity  only religiosity or spirituality contributed independently to burden in hiv+ caregivers  suggesting a relatively weak link between hiv seropositivity and caregiver burden. the model explained 62% of the variance in burden in hiv+ caregivers and 36% of the variance in hiv- caregivers.
3297,integrin beta1-mediated matrix assembly and signaling are critical for the normal development and function of the kidney glomerulus.,the human kidneys filter 180 l of blood every day via about 2.5 million glomeruli. the three layers of the glomerular filtration apparatus consist of fenestrated endothelium  specialized extracellular matrix known as the glomerular basement membrane (gbm) and the podocyte foot processes with their modified adherens junctions known as the slit diaphragm (sd). in this study we explored the contribution of podocyte beta1 integrin signaling for normal glomerular function. mice with podocyte specific deletion of integrin beta1 (podocin-cre beta1-fl/fl mice) are born normal but cannot complete postnatal renal development. they exhibit detectable proteinuria on day 1 and die within a week. the kidneys of podocin-cre beta1-fl/fl mice exhibit normal glomerular endothelium but show severe gbm defects with multilaminations and splitting including podocyte foot process effacement. the integrin linked kinase (ilk) is a downstream mediator of integrin beta1 activity in epithelial cells. to further explore whether integrin beta1-mediated signaling facilitates proper glomerular filtration  we generated mice deficient of ilk in the podocytes (podocin-cre ilk-fl/fl mice). these mice develop normally but exhibit postnatal proteinuria at birth and die within 15 weeks of age due to renal failure. collectively  our studies demonstrate that podocyte beta1 integrin and ilk signaling is critical for postnatal development and function of the glomerular filtration apparatus.
3299,cancer chemoprevention: much has been done  but there is still much to do. state of the art and possible new approaches.,over the past three decades great efforts have been made in search of cancer chemoprevention strategies. the increase in knowledge of the long process from normal to cancer cell has enabled interventions in terms of lifestyle modifications  natural compounds or drugs to block or reverse the process. great successes have been achieved  especially for breast and colorectal cancer. however  these strategies have yet to find clinical application on a large scale. in this article we identify the achievements  the pitfalls and the next steps to be taken to improve the efficacy and applicability of chemoprevention strategies. among the crucial key points to be implemented are educational activities for physicians to appropriately disseminate the aim and indeed the culture of chemoprevention. it is essential to improve the risk-benefit balance  seeking the minimal active doses  intermittent schedules  a better characterization of the risk categories via a more personalized intervention based on individual characteristics  and ensure the containment of costs of public and private health prevention programs.
3301,asymptomatic spinal cord lesions predict disease progression in radiologically isolated syndrome.,background technological advancements in neuroimaging and the increased use of these diagnostic modalities are responsible for the discovery of incidentally identified anomalies within the cns. in addition to the identification of unanticipated brain mri abnormalities suggestive of demyelinating disease in patients undergoing neuroimaging for a medical reason other than evaluation for multiple sclerosis (ms)  asymptomatic spinal cord lesions are periodically identified. objective to determine if asymptomatic spinal cord lesions are associated with clinical progression in subjects with radiologically isolated syndrome (ris). methods a retrospective review of ris cases at the university of california  san francisco multiple sclerosis center was performed. the presence of asymptomatic cervical spinal cord mri lesions was analyzed as a potential predictor for clinical progression. results twenty-five of 71 subjects with ris possessed findings within the cervical spine that were highly suggestive of demyelinating disease. of these subjects  21 (84%) progressed clinically to clinically isolated syndrome (n = 19) or primary progressive multiple sclerosis (n = 2) over a median time of 1.6 years from the date of ris identification (interquartile range 0.8-3.8). the sensitivity  specificity  and positive predictive value of an asymptomatic spinal cord lesion for subsequent development of either a first demyelinating attack or primary progressive ms were 87.5%  91.5%  and 84%  respectively. the odds ratio of clinical progression was 75.3 (95% confidence interval 16.1-350.0  p < 0.0001). this association remained significant after adjusting for potential confounders. conclusion these findings suggest that the presence of asymptomatic spinal cord lesions place subjects with ris at substantial risk for clinical conversion to either an acute or progressive event  a risk that is independent of brain lesions on mri.
3303,a direct role for met endocytosis in tumorigenesis,compartmentalization of signals generated by receptor tyrosine kinase (rtk) endocytosis has emerged as a major determinant of various cell functions. here  using tumour-associated met-activating mutations  we demonstrate a direct link between endocytosis and tumorigenicity. met mutants exhibit increased endocytosis/recycling activity and decreased levels of degradation  leading to accumulation on endosomes  activation of the gtpase rac1  loss of actin stress fibres and increased levels of cell migration. blocking endocytosis inhibited mutants’ anchorage-independent growth  in vivo tumorigenesis and metastasis while maintaining their activation. one mutant resistant to inhibition by a met-specific tyrosine kinase inhibitor was sensitive to endocytosis inhibition. thus  oncogenicity of met mutants results not only from activation but also from their altered endocytic trafficking  indicating that endosomal signalling may be a crucial mechanism regulating rtk-dependent tumorigenesis.
3305,toxicity of nerium oleander in the monkey (cebus apella).,the toxic effects of nerium oleander were evaluated in capuchin monkeys (cebus apella) by examination of clinical signs  hematologic and serum chemical values  and gross and microscopic lesions. dried and ground oleander leaves were given at intervals of 48 h in doses of 30  7.5  and 3 mg/kg body weight. the cumulative lethal dose ranged from 30 to 60 mg/kg body weight in monkeys that were given doses of 30 and 7.5 mg/kg body weight. monkeys that received doses of 3 mg/kg body weight (total cumulative dose: 60 mg/kg) survived. clinical signs were vomiting  salivation  polyuria  bradycardia  vaginal hemorrhage  abortion  anorexia  constipation  loss of body weight  narcosis  restlessness  weakness  and shallow and rapid respirations. changes in blood values were leukocytosis; neutrophilia; increased potassium  glutamic-oxalacetic transaminase  glutamic-pyruvic transaminase  blood urea nitrogen and α-globulins; reticulo-cytopenia; and decreased calcium  glucose  total serum protein  albumin  γ-globulin leve...
3307,requirement for the eri/dicer complex in endogenous rna interference and sperm development in caenorhabditis elegans.,small regulatory rnas are key regulators of gene expression. one class of small regulatory rnas  termed the endogenous small interfering rnas (endo sirnas)  is thought to negatively regulate cellular transcripts via an rna interference (rnai)-like mechanism termed endogenous rnai (endo rnai). a complex of proteins composed of eri-1/3/5  rrf-3  and dicer (the eri/dicer complex) mediates endo rnai processes in caenorhabditis elegans. we conducted a genetic screen to identify additional components of the endo rnai machinery. our screen recovered alleles of eri-9  which encodes a novel dicer-interacting protein  and a missense mutation within the helicase domain of dicer [dcr-1(g492r)]. eri-9(-) and dcr-1(g492) animals exhibit defects in endo sirna expression and a concomitant failure to regulate mrnas that exhibit sequence homology to these endo sirnas  indicating that eri-9 and the dcr-1 helicase domain function in the c. elegans endo rnai pathway. we define a subset of eri mutant animals (including eri-1  rrf-3  eri-3  and dcr-1  but not eri-9 or ergo-1) that exhibit temperature-sensitive  sperm-specific sterility and defects in x chromosome segregation. among these mutants we find multiple aberrations in sperm development beginning with cytokinesis and extending through terminal differentiation. these results identify novel components of the endo rnai machinery  demonstrate differential requirements for the eri factors in the sperm-producing germline  and begin to delineate the functional requirement for the eri/dicer complex in sperm development.
3309,costs and financial feasibility of malaria elimination,the marginal costs and benefits of converting malaria programmes from a control to an elimination goal are central to strategic decisions  but empirical evidence is scarce. we present a conceptual framework to assess the economics of elimination and analyse a central component of that framework-potential short-term to medium-term financial savings. after a review that showed a dearth of existing evidence  the net present value of elimination in five sites was calculated and compared with effective control. the probability that elimination would be cost-saving over 50 years ranged from 0% to 42%  with only one site achieving cost-savings in the base case. these findings show that financial savings should not be a primary rationale for elimination  but that elimination might still be a worthy investment if total benefits are sufficient to outweigh marginal costs. robust research into these elimination benefits is urgently needed.
3311,cnn1 inhibits the interactions between the kmn complexes of the yeast kinetochore,kinetochores attach the replicated chromosomes to the mitotic spindle and orchestrate their transmission to the daughter cells. kinetochore–spindle binding and chromosome segregation are mediated by the multi-copy knl1spc105  mis12mtw1 and ndc80ndc80 complexes that form the so-called kmn network. kmn–spindle attachment is regulated by the aurora bipl1 and mps1mps1 kinases. it is unclear whether other mechanisms exist that support kmn activity during the cell cycle. using budding yeast  we show that kinetochore protein cnn1 localizes to the base of the ndc80 complex and promotes a functionally competent configuration of the kmn network. cnn1 regulates kmn activity in a spatiotemporal manner by inhibiting the interaction between its complexes. cnn1 activity peaks in anaphase and is driven by the cdc28  mps1 and ipl1 kinases.
3313,treatment outcome of an unselected cohort of tuberculosis patients in relation to human immunodeficiency virus serostatus in zomba hospital  malawi.,there is little information about treatment outcome in patients with smear-negative pulmonary tuberculosis (ptb) or extrapulmonary tuberculosis (eptb) treated under routine programme conditions in subsaharan africa. a prospective study was carried out to determine treatment outcome in an unselected cohort of tb patients admitted to zomba general hospital  malawi. eight hundred and twenty-seven adult tb patients (451 men and 376 women) were registered between 1 july and 31 december 1995. standardized treatment outcomes of treatment completion  death  default  and transfer to another district were assessed in relation to type of tb  human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) serostatus  age and gender. two hundred and fifty-four patients (31%) died by the end of treatment  half of the deaths occurring in the first month. death rates were 19% among 386 patients with smear-positive ptb  46% among 211 patients with smear-negative ptb  and 37% among 230 patients with eptb; 77% of the patients were hiv seropositive. among new patients  hiv-positive patients had higher death rates than hiv-negative patients (hazard ratio [hr] 2.5; 95% confidence interval [95% ci] 1.6-3.8). smear-negative patients had the highest death rates (hr 3.9; 95% ci 2.7-5.5 compared to smear-positive patients)  followed by eptb patients (hr 2.6  95% ci 1.8-3.7 compared to smear-positive patients). death rates increased with age but were similar in men and women. adult patients in malawi with smear-negative ptb and eptb have low treatment completion and high death rates  related to high levels of hiv infection. national tb control programmes in areas of high hiv prevalence should no longer ignore treatment outcomes in patients with smear-negative ptb or eptb.
3315,chromatin remodeling in embryonic stem cells: regulating the balance between pluripotency and differentiation.,embryonic stem cells have an unlimited potential for self-renewal yet are pluripotent  capable of differentiating into three different germ layers and ultimately into multiple cell lineages. key pluripotency specific factors maintain an undifferentiated es cell phenotype while lineage specific factors work in opposition to promote cell specialization. in addition to these important transcriptional regulators  epigenetic modifiers play a defining role in regulating the balance between pluripotency and differentiation by promoting changes in chromatin structure.
3317,effect of n-3 long chain polyunsaturated fatty acid supplementation in pregnancy on infants’ allergies in first year of life: randomised controlled trial,objective to determine whether dietary n-3 long chain polyunsaturated fatty acid (lcpufa) supplementation of pregnant women with a fetus at high risk of allergic disease reduces immunoglobulin e associated eczema or food allergy at 1 year of age. design follow-up of infants at high hereditary risk of allergic disease in the docosahexaenoic acid to optimise mother infant outcome (domino) randomised controlled trial. setting adelaide  south australia. participants 706 infants at high hereditary risk of developing allergic disease whose mothers were participating in the domino trial. interventions the intervention group (n=368) was randomly allocated to receive fish oil capsules (providing 900 mg of n-3 lcpufa daily) from 21 weeks' gestation until birth; the control group (n=338) received matched vegetable oil capsules without n-3 lcpufa. main outcome measure immunoglobulin e associated allergic disease (eczema or food allergy with sensitisation) at 1 year of age. results no differences were seen in the overall percentage of infants with immunoglobulin e associated allergic disease between the n-3 lcpufa and control groups (32/368 (9%) v 43/338 (13%); unadjusted relative risk 0.68  95% confidence interval 0.43 to 1.05  p=0.08; adjusted relative risk 0.70  0.45 to 1.09  p=0.12)  although the percentage of infants diagnosed as having atopic eczema (that is  eczema with associated sensitisation) was lower in the n-3 lcpufa group (26/368 (7%) v 39/338 (12%); unadjusted relative risk 0.61  0.38 to 0.98  p=0.04; adjusted relative risk 0.64  0.40 to 1.02  p=0.06). fewer infants were sensitised to egg in the n-3 lcpufa group (34/368 (9%) v 52/338 (15%); unadjusted relative risk 0.61  0.40 to 0.91  p=0.02; adjusted relative risk 0.62  0.41 to 0.93  p=0.02)  but no difference between groups in immunoglobulin e associated food allergy was seen. conclusion n-3 lcpufa supplementation in pregnancy did not reduce the overall incidence of immunoglobulin e associated allergies in the first year of life  although atopic eczema and egg sensitisation were lower. longer term follow-up is needed to determine if supplementation has an effect on respiratory allergic diseases and aeroallergen sensitisation in childhood. trial registration australian new zealand clinical trials registry actrn12610000735055 (domino trial: actrn12605000569606).
3319,what is the best way to help caregivers in cancer and palliative care? a systematic literature review of interventions and their effectiveness.,informal carers in cancer and palliative care are known to have high needs and psychological morbidity  yet a literature review identified few targeted interventions. this systematic review of interventions for carers of patients using home cancer and palliative care services searched medline  cancerlit  psycinfo and cinahl databases. the terms used were carer(s)  caregiver(s)  palliative and cancer. papers that reported interventions for adults actively providing informal care for noninstitutionalized cancer and palliative care patients were reviewed. twenty-two interventions were identified  comprising home nursing care (four)  respite services (three)  social networks and activity enhancement (two)  problem solving and education (three) and group work (10). of these  nine were delivered solely to carers (i.e.  were targeted services). only six of the carers' interventions had been evaluated  two of these had used a randomized control trial (rct; grades ib)  three employed a single group methodology (two prospective grades iiic and one retrospective grade iiic) and one was evaluated using facilitator feedback. there was a lack of outcome evaluation designs  small sample sizes and a reliance on intervention descriptions and formative evaluations. methodological challenges may mean alternatives to 'pure' rcts should be considered. the current evidence contributes more to understanding feasibility and acceptability than to effectiveness. practitioners and evaluators must prioritize the further development of intervention studies.
3321,up-regulation of ppar-gamma mrna expression in the liver of obese patients: an additional reinforcing lipogenic mechanism to srebp-1c induction.,introduction triglyceride accumulation in the liver is an early feature in the development of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (nafld) associated with human obesity  which is a multifactorial syndrome and whose underlying mechanisms are beginning to be understood. objectives liver peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ (ppar-γ) mrna expression was measured as a signaling mechanism related to steatosis in obese patients with nafld. methods liver ppar-γ and sterol receptor element-binding protein 1c (srebp-1c) mrna (real-time rt-pcr)  serum total adiponectin (ria)  and high molecular weight (hmw)-adiponectin (elisa) levels  and insulin resistance (ir) evolution (homeostasis model assessment-ir) were determined in 22 obese nafld patients (16 with steatosis and six with steatohepatitis) who underwent subtotal gastrectomy with gastrojejunal anastomosis in roux-en-y and 16 nonobese subjects who underwent laparoscopic cholecystectomy (controls). results liver ppar-γ mrna levels were 112 and 188% higher (p < 0.05) than control values in obese patients with steatosis and steatohepatitis  respectively  who also exhibited 70 and 62% increases in those of srebp-1c  concomitantly with ir and lower levels of serum total adiponectin and hmw-adiponectin (p < 0.05). liver ppar-γ expression showed positive associations with srebp-1c mrna levels (r = 0.86; p < 0.0001)  serum insulin levels (r = 0.39; p < 0.01)  and homeostasis model assessment-ir (r = 0.60; p < 0.0001)  and negative correlations with total adiponectin (r = -0.37; p < 0.01) and hmw-adiponectin (r = -0.51; p < 0.001) levels in serum. conclusions ppar-γ is up-regulated in the liver of obese patients with nafld  representing an additional reinforcing lipogenic mechanism to srebp-1c induction in the development of hepatic steatosis.
3323,an overview of the effective combination therapies for the treatment of breast cancer.,breast cancer (bc) is generally classified based on the receptors overexpressed on the cell nucleus  which include hormone receptors such as progesterone (pr) and estrogen (er)  and her2. triple-negative breast cancer (tnbc) is a type of cancer that lacks any of these three types of receptor proteins (er/pr/her2). tumor cells exhibit drug resistant phenotypes that decrease the efficacy of chemotherapeutic treatments. generally  drug resistance has a genetic basis that is caused by an abnormal gene expression  nevertheless  there are several types of drug resistance: efflux pumps reducing the cellular concentration of the drug  alterations in membrane lipids that reduce cellular uptake  increased or altered drug targets  metabolic alteration of the drug  inhibition of apoptosis  repair of the damaged dna  and alteration of the cell cycle checkpoints. the use of "combination therapy" is recognized as an efficient solution to treat human diseases  in particular  breast cancer. in this review  we give examples of different nanocarriers used to co-deliver multiple therapeutics (chemotherapeutic agent and nucleic acid) to drug-resistant tumor cells  and lastly  we give our recommendations for the future directions for the co-delivery treatments.
3325,targeted blockade of tgf-β and il-6/jak2/stat3 pathways inhibits lung cancer growth promoted by bone marrow-derived myofibroblasts,to investigate the role of tgf-β and il-6 in myofibroblasts (mfs) - lung cancer cell interactions  lung cancer cells (lewis and ctm-167 cell lines) were stimulated by il-6  mf-conditioned medium (mf-cm) or mfs  with or without tgf-β signaling inhibitor - sb431542 and/or jak2/stat3 inhibitor - jsi-124. mfs were stimulated by tgf-β  cancer cell-cm or cancer cells  with or without sb431542 and jsi-124. cell proliferation  the levels of cytokines  expression of mrna and protein were determined. mice bearing xenograft tumors were intraperitoneally treated with sb431542 or jsi-124 and monitored for up to 45 days. in co-culture systems  mfs secreted high levels of il-6  while cancer cells produced high levels of tgf-β. recombinant il-6 and mf-cm activated stat3 and upregulated tgf-β in cancer cells. in contrast  cancer cell-cm or tgf-β stimulated mfs to produce il-6. blockade of jak2/stat3 and tgf-β signaling by specific inhibitors significantly inhibited cell proliferation in vitro and tumor growth in vivo of lung cancer cells. our study demontrated that the tgf-β and il-6/jak2/stat3 signaling pathways form a positive feedback signaling loop that mediated the interactions between mfs and lung cancer cells. targeted inhibiton of this signaling loop could be a new approach for lung cancer prevention and therapy.
3327,recruitment of tat to heterochromatin protein hp1 via interaction with ctip2 inhibits human immunodeficiency virus type 1 replication in microglial cells.,the tat protein of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (hiv-1) plays a key role as inducer of viral gene expression. we report that tat function can be potently inhibited in human microglial cells by the recently described nuclear receptor cofactor chicken ovalbumin upstream promoter transcription factor-interacting protein 2 (ctip2). overexpression of ctip2 leads to repression of hiv-1 replication  as a result of inhibition of tat-mediated transactivation. in contrast  the related ctip1 was unable to affect tat function and viral replication. using confocal microscopy to visualize tat subcellular distribution in the presence of the ctips  we found that overexpression of ctip2  and not of ctip1  leads to disruption of tat nuclear localization and recruitment of tat within ctip2-induced nuclear ball-like structures. in addition  our studies demonstrate that ctip2 colocalizes and associates with the heterochromatin-associated protein hp1alpha. the ctip2 protein harbors two tat and hp1 interaction interfaces  the 145-434 and the 717-813 domains. ctip2 and hp1alpha associate with tat to form a three-protein complex in which the 145-434 ctip2 domain interacts with the n-terminal region of tat  while the 717-813 domain binds to hp1. the importance of this tat binding interface and of tat subnuclear relocation was confirmed by analysis of ctip2 deletion mutants. our findings suggest that inhibition of hiv-1 expression by ctip2 correlates with recruitment of tat within ctip2-induced structures and relocalization within inactive regions of the chromatin via formation of the tat-ctip2-hp1alpha complex. these data highlight a new mechanism of tat inactivation through subnuclear relocalization that may ultimately lead to inhibition of viral pathogenesis.
3329,toll-like receptor 4 gene asp299gly polymorphism in myocardial infarction: a meta-analysis of 15 148 subjects.,it remains controversial regarding the association between toll-like receptor 4 (tlr4) gene asp299gly (+896 a/g) polymorphism and myocardial infarction (mi) risk. thus  a large-scale meta-analysis evaluating the potential association between this gene variant and mi risk is required. pubmed  embase  web of science  cbmdisc  cnki  and google scholar were searched until february 6  2013. all the statistical tests were performed using stata 11.0. nine articles involving 10 studies were included in the final meta-analysis  covering a total of 8299 mi cases and 6849 controls. overall  no significant association was found between the tlr4 gene asp299gly polymorphism and mi risk (g allele vs. a allele: or=0.95  95% ci=0.74-1.22  p=0.71; g/g vs. a/a: or=1.03  95% ci=0.54-1.98  p=0.93; g/g vs. a/g+a/a: or=1.05  95% ci=0.55-2.03  p=0.87; g/g+a/g vs. a/a: or=0.92  95% ci=0.75-1.13  p=0.42). in the subgroup analysis based on source of controls  there was also lack of evidence for significant association between the tlr4 gene asp299gly polymorphism and mi risk. in summary  the present meta-analysis indicated that the tlr4 gene asp299gly polymorphism was not associated with mi risk.
3331,β-catenin-independent wnt signaling in basal-like breast cancer and brain metastasis.,a role of wnt signaling for primary breast cancers of the basal-like subtype and as a predictor of brain metastasis has been described. however  a responsible wnt ligand has not been identified. to further clarify this question  we comparatively investigated 22 human breast cancer brain metastases as well as the highly invasive human breast cancer cell line mda-mb-231 and the weakly motile mcf-7 as models for the basal-like and the luminal a subtype. wnt5a and b were found overexpressed in mda-mb-231 cells as compared with mcf-7. this corresponded to reduction of mda-mb-231 invasiveness by wnt inhibitors  whereas mcf-7 invasion was enhanced by recombinant wnt5b and abolished by wnt and jun-n-terminal kinase antagonists. expression and subcellular distribution of β-catenin remained uninfluenced. consistently  β-catenin was not localized in the nuclei of brain metastases while there was strong nuclear c-jun staining. similar to mda-mb-231  metastases showed expression of wnt5a/b and the alternative wnt receptors ror1 and 2. these findings were validated using external gene expression datasets (gene expression omnibus) of different breast cancer subtypes and brain metastases. hierarchical cluster analysis yielded a close relation between basal-like cancers and brain metastases. gene set enrichment analyses confirmed wnt pathway enrichment not only in basal-like primaries but also in cerebral metastases of all subtypes. in conclusion  wnt signaling seems highly relevant for basal-like and other subtypes of breast cancers metastasizing into the brain. β-catenin-independent wnt signaling  presumably via ror1-2  plays a major role in this context.
3333,nrage promotes the malignant phenotype of hepatocellular carcinoma.,hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) is a fatal disease  primarily due to the limited effective therapies available for patients with advanced or recurrent stages of the disease. therefore  in order to improve patient prognosis  it is important to identify an informative biomarker for hcc progression  as well as a molecular target for therapy. neurotrophin receptor-interacting melanoma antigen-encoding protein (nrage)  a member of the type ii melanoma-associated antigen family  mediates apoptosis and cell death through interactions with a wide range of proteins  and is implicated as a tumor suppressor or oncoprotein depending on cell type. however  the role of nrage in hcc is currently unknown  therefore  the present study aimed to identify the underlying function of nrage in hcc tumorigenesis. resected tumor and non-cancerous liver tissues from 151 patients with hcc  alongside hcc cell lines  were analyzed by polymerase chain reaction and immunohistochemical techniques to determine nrage expression levels  as well as the expression levels of potential genes encoding interacting proteins. it was demonstrated that the expression levels of nrage mrna correlated significantly with those of apoptosis-antagonizing transcription factor (aatf)  and were not affected by cirrhosis in non-cancerous liver tissues when compared to elevated levels in hcc tissues. the expression patterns of nrage protein and mrna were consistent among 30 representative specimen pairs. furthermore  increased nrage expression in patients with hcc correlated significantly with a shorter disease-specific survival time  and was identified as an independent prognostic factor via multivariate analysis (hazard ratio  2.23; 95% confidence interval  1.06-3.83; p=0.020). therefore  the results of the present study indicated that increased nrage expression affects hcc progression via its interaction with aatf  and may represent a novel biomarker and molecular target for the treatment of hcc.
3335,embryonic stem cells for severe heart failure: why and how?,the experience accumulated in cardiac cell therapy suggests that regeneration of extensively necrotic myocardial areas is unlikely to be achieved by the sole paracrine effects of the grafted cells but rather requires the conversion of these cells into cardiomyocytes featuring the capacity to substitute for those which have been irreversibly lost. in this setting  the use of human pluripotent embryonic stem cells has a strong rationale. the experimental results obtained in animal models of myocardial infarction are encouraging. however  the switch to clinical applications still requires to address some critical issues  among which the optimization of the cardiac specification of the embryonic stem cells  the purification of the resulting progenitor cells so as to graft a purified population devoid from any contamination by residual pluripotent cells which carry the risk of tumorigenesis  and the control of the expected allogeneic rejection by clinically acceptable methods. if the solution to these problems is a prerequisite  the therapeutic success of this approach will also depend on the capacity to efficiently transfer the cells to the target tissue  to keep them alive once engrafted  and to allow them to spatially organize in such a way that they can contribute to the contractile function of the heart.
3337,epigenetic mechanisms in neurological disease,the exploration of brain epigenomes  which consist of various types of dna methylation and covalent histone modifications  is providing new and unprecedented insights into the mechanisms of neural development  neurological disease and aging. traditionally  chromatin defects in the brain were considered static lesions of early development that occurred in the context of rare genetic syndromes  but it is now clear that mutations and maladaptations of the epigenetic machinery cover a much wider continuum that includes adult-onset neurodegenerative disease. here  we describe how recent advances in neuroepigenetics have contributed to an improved mechanistic understanding of developmental and degenerative brain disorders  and we discuss how they could influence the development of future therapies for these conditions.
3339,agouti-related peptide–expressing neurons are mandatory for feeding,multiple hormones controlling energy homeostasis regulate the expression of neuropeptide y (npy) and agouti-related peptide (agrp) in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus. nevertheless  inactivation of the genes encoding npy and/or agrp has no impact on food intake in mice. here we demonstrate that induced selective ablation of agrp-expressing neurons in adult mice results in acute reduction of feeding  demonstrating direct evidence for a critical role of these neurons in the regulation of energy homeostasis.
3341,decreased neurogenesis after cholinergic forebrain lesion in the adult rat.,adult neurogenesis has been shown to be regulated by a multitude of extracellular cues  including hormones  growth factors  and neurotransmitters. the cholinergic system of the basal forebrain is one of the key transmitter systems for learning and memory. because adult neurogenesis has been implicated in cognitive performance  the present work aims at defining the role of cholinergic input for adult neurogenesis by using an immunotoxic lesion approach. the immunotoxin 192igg-saporin was infused into the lateral ventricle of adult rats to selectively lesion cholinergic neurons of the cholinergic basal forebrain (cbf)  which project to the two main regions of adult neurogenesis: the dentate gyrus and the olfactory bulb. five weeks after lesioning  neurogenesis  defined by the number of cells colocalized for bromodeoxyuridine (brdu) and the neuronal nuclei marker neun  declined significantly in the granule cell layers of the dentate gyrus and olfactory bulb. furthermore  immunotoxic lesions to the cbf led to increased numbers of apoptotic cells specifically in the subgranular zone  the progenitor region of the dentate gyrus  and within the periglomerular layer of the olfactory bulb. we propose that the cholinergic system plays a survival-promoting role for neuronal progenitors and immature neurons within regions of adult neurogenesis  similar to effects observed previously during brain development. as a working hypothesis  neuronal loss within the cbf system leads not only to cognitive deficits but may also alter on a cellular level the functionality of the dentate gyrus  which in turn may aggravate cognitive deficits.
3343,consensus structural features of purified bacterial tatabc complexes.,the twin-arginine translocation (tat) system transports folded proteins across bacterial plasma membranes and the chloroplast thylakoid membrane. here  we investigate the composition and structural organization of three different purified tat complexes from escherichia coli  salmonella typhimurium and agrobacterium tumefaciens. first  we demonstrate the functional activity of these tat systems in vivo  since expression of the tatabc operons from s.typhimurium or a.tumefaciens in an e.coli tat null mutant strain resulted in efficient tat-dependent export of an e.coli cofactor-containing substrate  tmao reductase. the three isolated  affinity-tagged tat complexes comprised tata  tatb and tatc in each case  demonstrating a strong interaction between these three subunits. single-particle electron microscopy studies of all three complexes revealed approximately oval-shaped  asymmetric particles with maximal dimensions up to 13 nm. a common feature is a number of stain-excluding densities surrounding more or less central pools of stain  suggesting protein-lined pores or cavities. the characteristics of size variation among the particles suggest a modular form of assembly and/or the recruitment of varying numbers of tatbc/tata units. despite low levels of sequence homology  the combined data indicate structural and functional conservation in the tat systems of these three bacterial species.
3345,ly6chi monocytes direct alternatively activated profibrotic macrophage regulation of lung fibrosis.,rationale idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (ipf) is a devastating disease. antiinflammatory therapies  including corticosteroids  are of no benefit. the role of monocytes and macrophages is therefore controversial. objectives to define the role of monocytes and macrophages during lung fibrogenesis and resolution  and explore the phenotype of the cells involved. methods we used multiple in vivo depletional strategies  backed up by adoptive transfer techniques. further studies were performed on samples from patients with ipf. measurements and main results depletion of lung macrophages during fibrogenesis reduced pulmonary fibrosis as measured by lung collagen (p = 0.0079); fibrosis score (p = 0.0051); and quantitative polymerase chain reaction for surrogate markers of fibrosis col1 (p = 0.0083) and a-smooth muscle actin (p = 0.0349). there was an associated reduction in markers of the profibrotic alternative macrophage activation phenotype  ym1 (p = 0.0179)  and arginase 1. the alternative macrophage marker cd163 was expressed on lung macrophages from patients with ipf. depletion of ly6chi circulating monocytes reduced pulmonary fibrosis (p = 0.0052) and the number of ym1- positive alternatively activated lung macrophages (p = 0.0310). their adoptive transfer during fibrogenesis exacerbated fibrosis (p = 0.0304); however  adoptively transferred cd45.1 ly6chi cells were not found in the lungs of recipient cd45.2 mice. conclusions we demonstrate the importance of circulating monocytes and lung macrophages during pulmonary fibrosis  and emphasize the importance of the alternatively activated macrophage phenotype. we show that ly6chi monocytes facilitate the progression of pulmonary fibrosis  but are not obviously engrafted into lungs thereafter. finally  we provide empirical data to suggest that macrophages may have a resolution-promoting role during the reversible phase of bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis.
3347,identification of t6ss-dependent effector and immunity proteins by tn-seq in vibrio cholerae.,type vi protein secretion system (t6ss) is important for bacterial competition through contact-dependent killing of competitors. t6ss delivers effectors to neighboring cells and corresponding antagonistic proteins confer immunity against effectors that are delivered by sister cells. although t6ss has been found in more than 100 gram-negative bacteria including many important human pathogens  few t6ss-dependent effector and immunity proteins have been experimentally determined. here we report a high-throughput approach using transposon mutagenesis and deep sequencing (tn-seq) to identify t6ss immunity proteins in vibrio cholerae. saturating transposon mutagenesis was performed in wild type and a t6ss null mutant. genes encoding immunity proteins were predicted to be essential in the wild type but dispensable in the t6ss mutant. by comparing the relative abundance of each transposon mutant in the mutant library using deep sequencing  we identified three immunity proteins that render protection against killing by t6ss predatory cells. we also identified their three cognate t6ss-secreted effectors and show these are important for not only antibacterial and antieukaryotic activities but also assembly of t6ss apparatus. the lipase and muramidase t6ss effectors identified in this study underscore the diversity of t6ss-secreted substrates and the distinctly different mechanisms that target these for secretion by the dynamic t6ss organelle.
3349,autoimmune t cell responses in the central nervous system,autoreactive t cell responses have a crucial role in central nervous system (cns) diseases such as multiple sclerosis. recent data indicate that cns autoimmunity can be mediated by two distinct lineages of cd4+ t cells that are defined by the production of either interferon-γ or interleukin-17. the activity of these cd4+ t cell subsets within the cns influences the pathology and clinical course of disease. new animal models show that myelin-specific cd8+ t cells can also mediate cns autoimmunity. this review focuses on recent progress in delineating the pathogenic mechanisms  regulation and interplay between these different t cell subsets in cns autoimmunity.
3351,purkinje cell compartments in the reeler mutant mouse as revealed by zebrin ii and 90-acetylated glycolipid antigen expression,the cerebellum is organized into a series of parasagittally aligned bands that may be revealed histologically in the adult mouse by largely complementary immunostaining of purkinje cell sets with the monoclonal antibodies zebrin ii (zii; antigen:aldolase c) and p-path (pp; antigen:90-acetyl glycolipids). we compared the normal staining pattern using these markers and an antibody to calbindin with that found in the reeler mutants (rl/rl)  in which most purkinje cell migration is halted beneath the cerebellar white matter. the results revealed that purkinje cells in reeler mutants  despite their ectopic location in large subcortical masses  show a clear tendency to distribute into alternating zones that either stain for zebrin ii or for p-path  with variable transition zones of mixed labeling. however  the estimated number of zones was fewer than in the normal adult cortex: roughly 7–9 zones are revealed per side in the mutant compared with 14 major divisions in wild type mice. these results raise the possibility that neurons destined to express these markers are segregated during their migration and that the final phase of migration into the cortex might involve further splitting or interdigitation between cell sets expressing the two antigens.
3353,reactive oxygen species localization programs inflammation to clear microbes of different size,how the number of immune cells recruited to sites of infection is determined and adjusted to differences in the cellular stoichiometry between host and pathogen is unknown. here  we have uncovered a role for reactive oxygen species (ros) as sensors of microbe size. by sensing the differential localization of ros generated in response to microbes of different size  neutrophils tuned their interleukin (il)-1β expression via the selective oxidation of nf-κb  in order to implement distinct inflammatory programs. small microbes triggered ros intracellularly  suppressing il-1β expression to limit neutrophil recruitment as each phagocyte eliminated numerous pathogens. in contrast  large microbes triggered ros extracellularly  amplifying il-1β expression to recruit numerous neutrophils forming cooperative clusters. defects in ros-mediated microbe size sensing resulted in large neutrophil infiltrates and clusters in response to small microbes that contribute to inflammatory disease. these findings highlight the impact of ros localization on signal transduction.
3355,the role of the immune response during sivagm infection of the african green monkey natural host.,the african green monkey (agm) is one of many african species endemically infected with simian immunodeficiency virus (siv). like the other natural hosts  agms do not succumb to aids and understanding the basis for this resistance to disease progression would be of enormous theoretical and practical importance. early efforts by our group that concentrated on identifying immune mechanisms presumed to keep the virus under control failed to find any obvious candidates. the presumption of virus control was invalidated by the finding that sivagm replicates in agms with the same vigor as hiv-1 does in humans. focus therefore shifted to identifying possible immunopathologic features present in disease susceptible hosts but absent in the agm natural host. the apparent immunologic tolerance of agms to the sivagm core protein led to the development of a hypothesis implicating anti-gag antibodies in the formation of immune complexes  virus trapping in the lymph nodes and immune dysfunction. the idea proved difficult to test in vivo and present work focuses on the possibility that gag tolerance at the t-cell level plays an important role in preventing the catastrophic demise of the immune system characteristic of immunodeficiency virus infection of the heterologous primate host.
3357,bias in meta-analysis detected by a simple  graphical test.,objective funnel plots (plots of effect estimates against sample size) may be useful to detect bias in meta-analyses that were later contradicted by large trials. we examined whether a simple test of asymmetry of funnel plots predicts discordance of results when meta-analyses are compared to large trials  and we assessed the prevalence of bias in published meta-analyses. design medline search to identify pairs consisting of a meta-analysis and a single large trial (concordance of results was assumed if effects were in the same direction and the meta-analytic estimate was within 30% of the trial); analysis of funnel plots from 37 meta-analyses identified from a hand search of four leading general medicine journals 1993-6 and 38 meta-analyses from the second 1996 issue of the cochrane database of systematic reviews. main outcome measure degree of funnel plot asymmetry as measured by the intercept from regression of standard normal deviates against precision. results in the eight pairs of meta-analysis and large trial that were identified (five from cardiovascular medicine  one from diabetic medicine  one from geriatric medicine  one from perinatal medicine) there were four concordant and four discordant pairs. in all cases discordance was due to meta-analyses showing larger effects. funnel plot asymmetry was present in three out of four discordant pairs but in none of concordant pairs. in 14 (38%) journal meta-analyses and 5 (13%) cochrane reviews  funnel plot asymmetry indicated that there was bias. conclusions a simple analysis of funnel plots provides a useful test for the likely presence of bias in meta-analyses  but as the capacity to detect bias will be limited when meta-analyses are based on a limited number of small trials the results from such analyses should be treated with considerable caution.
3359,twenty-four hour and early morning blood pressure control of olmesartan vs. ramipril in elderly hypertensive patients: pooled individual data analysis of two randomized  double-blind  parallel-group studies.,objective to assess the antihypertensive efficacy of olmesartan medoxomil and ramipril on 24-h ambulatory blood pressure (abp) in elderly hypertensive patients by pooled data analysis of two studies with identical designs (one italian  one european). methods after a 2-week placebo wash-out 1453 elderly hypertensive patients (65-89 years; sitting office dbp 90-109 mmhg and/or sitting office sbp 140-179 mmhg) were randomized to a 12-week double-blind treatment with olmesartan medoxomil 10 mg or ramipril 2.5 mg once-daily  up-titrated (20 and 40 mg olmesartan medoxomil; 5 and 10 mg ramipril) after 2 and 6 weeks in patients without normalized office bp. 24-h abp was recorded at randomization and after 12 weeks. results in 715 patients with valid baseline and end-of-treatment recordings baseline-adjusted 24-h sbp and dbp reductions were greater with olmesartan medoxomil (n = 356) than with ramipril (n = 359) [between-treatment differences and 95% confidence interval (ci)  sbp: 2.2 (3.8  0.6)  p = 0.006; dbp: 1.3 (2.2  0.3)  p = 0.009]. olmesartan medoxomil showed larger bp reductions in the last 6 h from the dosing interval and higher smoothness indices than ramipril. olmesartan medoxomil reduced the sbp morning rise [-2.8 (-4.9  -0.8) mmhg]  whereas ramipril did not [+1.5 (-0.6  +3.6) mmhg; p = 0.004 between-treatments]. five hundred and eighty-two patients with sustained hypertension (office and 24-h ambulatory hypertension) showed the largest antihypertensive effect  with between-treatment differences still in favor of olmesartan medoxomil [sbp: 2.1 (3.9  0.4)  p = 0.019; dbp: 1.2 (2.3  0.1)  p = 0.032]. conclusions olmesartan medoxomil provides a more effective and sustained 24-h bp control than ramipril in elderly hypertensive patients  particularly in the hours farthest from last intake.
3361,the dendritic cell lineage: ontogeny and function of dendritic cells and their subsets in the steady state and the inflamed setting.,dendritic cells (dcs) form a remarkable cellular network that shapes adaptive immune responses according to peripheral cues. after four decades of research  we now know that dcs arise from a hematopoietic lineage distinct from other leukocytes  establishing the dc system as a unique hematopoietic branch. recent work has also established that tissue dcs consist of developmentally and functionally distinct subsets that differentially regulate t lymphocyte function. this review discusses major advances in our understanding of the regulation of dc lineage commitment  differentiation  diversification  and function in situ.
3363,vaginal progesterone  cerclage or cervical pessary for preventing preterm birth in asymptomatic singleton pregnant women with a history of preterm birth and a sonographic short cervix.,objective to compare the outcome of pregnancy in cohorts of women with singleton pregnancy and history of preterm birth and sonographic short cervix managed with different treatment protocols  namely cerclage  vaginal progesterone or cervical pessary. methods this was a comparison of three management protocols for women with singleton pregnancy and a high risk of preterm birth because of a prior spontaneous preterm birth before 34 weeks and a shortened cervical length detected by transvaginal ultrasound. the study included 142 women who were initially treated with cerclage (usa)  59 with vaginal progesterone (uk) and 42 with cervical pessary (spain). perinatal outcomes were compared between the three cohorts. results there were no statistically significant differences in perinatal losses  neonatal morbidity and preterm births among the three groups  apart from a higher rate of preterm birth before 34 weeks' gestation after treatment with vaginal progesterone in comparison with treatment with cervical pessary (32% vs 12%; relative risk (rr) = 2.70; 95% ci  1.10-6.67). when only the subgroups of women with cervical length < 25 mm  irrespective of gestational age  were compared  the difference between these two cohorts was not statistically significant (rr = 2.21; 95% ci  0.83-5.89). conclusion cerclage  vaginal progesterone and pessary appear to have similar effectiveness as management strategies in women with singleton pregnancy  previous spontaneous preterm birth and short cervix. direct randomized comparisons of these strategies  or combinations thereof  are needed to determine optimal management.
3365,myc represses primitive endoderm differentiation in pluripotent stem cells.,the generation of induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs) provides a novel method to facilitate investigations into the mechanisms that control stem cell pluripotency and self-renewal. myc has previously been shown to be critical for murine embryonic stem cell (mesc) maintenance  while also enhancing directed reprogramming of fibroblasts by effecting widespread changes in gene expression. despite several studies identifying in vivo target genes  the precise mechanism by which myc regulates pluripotency remains unknown. here we report that codeletion of c- and n-myc in ipscs and escs results in their spontaneous differentiation to primitive endoderm. we show that myc sustains pluripotency through repression of the primitive endoderm master regulator gata6  while also contributing to cell cycle control by regulation of the mir-17-92 mirna cluster. our findings demonstrate the indispensable requirement for c- or n-myc in pluripotency beyond proliferative and metabolic control.
3367,type 2 cytokines: mechanisms and therapeutic strategies,type 2 immune responses are defined by the cytokines interleukin-4 (il-4)  il-5  il-9 and il-13  which can either be host protective or have pathogenic activity. type 2 immunity promotes antihelminth immunity  suppresses type 1-driven autoimmune disease  neutralizes toxins  maintains metabolic homeostasis  and regulates wound repair and tissue regeneration pathways following infection or injury. nevertheless  when type 2 responses are dysregulated  they can become important drivers of disease. type 2 immunity induces a complex inflammatory response characterized by eosinophils  mast cells  basophils  type 2 innate lymphoid cells  il-4-and/or il-13-conditioned macrophages and t helper 2 (th2) cells  which are crucial to the pathogenesis of many allergic and fibrotic disorders. as chronic type 2 immune responses promote disease  the mechanisms that regulate their maintenance are thought to function as crucial disease modifiers. this review discusses the many endogenous negative regulatory mechanisms that antagonize type 2 immunity and highlights how therapies that target some of these pathways are being developed to treat type 2-mediated disease.
3369,characterization of a highly variable eutherian microrna gene.,mouse micrornas (mirnas) mir-290-mir295 are encoded by a cluster of partially homologous pre-mirna hairpins and are likely to be functionally important in embryonic stem (es) cells and preimplantation embryos. we present evidence that a spliced  capped  and polyadenylated primary transcript spans this entire early embryonic microrna cluster (eemirc). partial drosha processing yields additional large nuclear rna intermediates. a conserved promoter element containing a tata-box directs eemirc transcription. sequence analysis shows that the eemirc transcription unit is remarkably variable and can only be identified bioinformatically in placental (eutherian) mammals. consistent with eutherian-specific function  eemirc is expressed in trophoblastic stem (ts) cells. when analyzing evolutionary and functional relationships  the organization of the entire mirna loci should be considered in addition to the mature mirna sequences. application of this concept suggests that eemirc is a recently acquired rapidly evolving gene important for eutherian development.
3371,disruption of tumor necrosis factor-alpha gene diminishes the development of atherosclerosis in apoe-deficient mice.,inflammatory cytokines  including tumor necrosis factor-alpha (tnf-alpha) have been implicated in atherogenesis. however  the precise role of tnf-alpha in atherogenesis is still unclear. to examine the effect of tnf-alpha on atherogenesis  we generated compound-deficient mice in apolipoprotein e (apoe) and tnf-alpha (apoe-/-/tnf-alpha-/-) and compared them with apoe-/- mice. although serum total cholesterol levels were markedly elevated in both apoe-/-/tnf-alpha-/- and apoe-/- mice compared to wild-type mice  no differences were observed between apoe-/-/tnf-alpha-/- and apoe-/- mice. the atherosclerotic plaque area in the aortic luminal surface of apoe-/-/tnf-alpha-/- mice (n=8  3.1+/-0.4%) was significantly smaller than that of apoe-/- mice (n=7  4.7+/-0.4%  p<0.001) despite the lack of difference in serum cholesterol levels. the atherosclerotic lesion size in the aortic sinus of apoe-/-/tnf-alpha-/- mice (n=10  5.1+/-0.3 x 10(5)microm(2)) was also significantly smaller than that of apoe-/- mice (n=11  7.0+/-0.3 x 10(5)microm(2)  p<0.0001). rt-pcr analysis indicated that the expression levels of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (icam-1)  vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (vcam-1) and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (mcp-1) were significantly higher in apoe-/- than apoe-/-/tnf-alpha-/- mice. macrophages from apoe(-/-) mice showed higher uptake level of oxidized ldl and increased expression level of scavenger receptor class a (sra) compared to those from apoe-/-/tnf-alpha-/- mice. these results indicate that tnf-alpha plays an atherogenic role by upregulating the expressions of icam-1  vcam-1 and mcp-1 in the vascular wall  and by inducing sra expression and oxidized ldl uptake in macrophages.
3373,foxp2 and foxp1 cooperatively regulate lung and esophagus development.,the airways of the lung develop through a reiterative process of branching morphogenesis that gives rise to the intricate and extensive surface area required for postnatal respiration. the forkhead transcription factors foxp2 and foxp1 are expressed in multiple foregut-derived tissues including the lung and intestine. in this report  we show that loss of foxp2 in mouse leads to defective postnatal lung alveolarization  contributing to postnatal lethality. using in vitro and in vivo assays  we show that t1alpha  a lung alveolar epithelial type 1 cell-restricted gene crucial for lung development and function  is a direct target of foxp2 and foxp1. remarkably  loss of a single foxp1 allele in addition to complete loss of foxp2 results in increased severity of morphological defects in mutant lungs and leads to perinatal loss of all foxp2(-/-);foxp1(+/-) mice. expression of n-myc and hop  crucial regulators of lung development  is compromised in foxp2(-/-);foxp1(+/-) mutants. in addition to the defects in lung development  esophageal muscle development is disrupted in foxp2(-/-);foxp1(+/-) embryos  a tissue where foxp2 and foxp1 are co-expressed. these data identify foxp2 and foxp1 as crucial regulators of lung and esophageal development  underscoring the necessity of these transcription factors in the development of anterior foregut-derived tissues and demonstrating functional cooperativity between members of the foxp1/2/4 family in tissues where they are co-expressed.
3375,hedgehog signaling regulates brain tumor-initiating cell proliferation and portends shorter survival for patients with pten-coexpressing glioblastomas.,the identification of brain tumor stem-like cells (btscs) has implicated a role of biological self-renewal mechanisms in clinical brain tumor initiation and propagation. the molecular mechanisms underlying the tumor-forming capacity of btscs  however  remain unknown. here  we have generated molecular signatures of glioblastoma multiforme (gbm) using gene expression profiles of btscs and have identified both sonic hedgehog (shh) signaling-dependent and -independent btscs and their respective glioblastoma surgical specimens. btsc proliferation could be abrogated in a pathway-dependent fashion in vitro and in an intracranial tumor model in athymic mice. both shh-dependent and -independent brain tumor growth required phosphoinositide 3-kinase-mammalian target of rapamycin signaling. in human gbms  the levels of shh and ptch1 expression were significantly higher in pten-expressing tumors than in pten-deficient tumors. in addition  we show that hyperactive shh-gli signaling in pten-coexpressing human gbm is associated with reduced survival time. thus  distinct proliferation signaling dependence may underpin glioblastoma propagation by btscs. modeling these btsc proliferation mechanisms may provide a rationale for individualized glioblastoma treatment.
3377,proteomic analysis reveals warburg effect and anomalous metabolism of glutamine in pancreatic cancer cells.,in this present work  we characterized the proteomes of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (pdac) cell line panc-1 and normal pancreatic duct cells by mass spectrometry using ltq-orbitrap and identified more than 1700 proteins from each sample. on the basis of the spectra count label-free quantification approach  we identified a large number of differentially expressed metabolic enzymes and proteins involved in cytoskeleton  cell adhesion  transport  transcription  translation  and cell proliferation as well. the data demonstrated that metabolic pathways were altered in panc-1  consistent with the warburg effect. in addition  the comparative ms analysis unveiled anomalous metabolism of glutamine  suggesting that glutamine was largely consumed as a nitrogen donor in nucleotide and amino acid biosynthesis in panc-1. our analysis provides a potentially comprehensive picture of metabolism in panc-1  which may serve as the basis of new diagnostics and treatment of pdac.
3379,antibodies specific for epstein-barr virus nuclear antigen-1 cross-react with human heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein l.,epstein-barr virus (ebv) is associated with multiple sclerosis (ms)  and antibodies to the ebv nuclear antigen-1 (ebna-1) are consistently increased in ms patients. the hypothesis of this study is that anti-ebna-1 antibodies cross-react with a self antigen in ms patients. we affinity purified anti-ebna-1 antibodies from human plasma  used the anti-ebna-1 to immunoprecipitate antigens from human brain  and identified bound antigens with mass spectrometry. anti-ebna-1 consistently bound heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein l (hnrnpl). we expressed both the long and short isoforms of this protein  and verified with western blots and elisa that the long isoform cross-reacts with ebna-1. immunohistochemistry demonstrated that anti-ebna-1 bound to an antigen in the nucleus of cultured rat central nervous system cells. elisa demonstrated the presence of antibodies to hnrnpl in the plasma of both healthy controls and ms patients  but anti-hnrnpl was not increased in ms patients. we conclude that hnrnpl is an autoantigen which cross-reacts with ebna-1. the relevance of this autoantigen to ms and other autoimmune diseases remains to be investigated.
3381,epstein-barr virus and virus human protein interaction maps.,a comprehensive mapping of interactions among epstein-barr virus (ebv) proteins and interactions of ebv proteins with human proteins should provide specific hypotheses and a broad perspective on ebv strategies for replication and persistence. interactions of ebv proteins with each other and with human proteins were assessed by using a stringent high-throughput yeast two-hybrid system. overall  43 interactions between ebv proteins and 173 interactions between ebv and human proteins were identified. ebv-ebv and ebv-human protein interaction  or "interactome" maps provided a framework for hypotheses of protein function. for example  lf2  an ebv protein of unknown function interacted with the ebv immediate early r transactivator (rta) and was found to inhibit rta transactivation. from a broader perspective  ebv genes can be divided into two evolutionary classes  "core" genes  which are conserved across all herpesviruses and subfamily specific  or "noncore" genes. our ebv-ebv interactome map is enriched for interactions among proteins in the same evolutionary class. furthermore  human proteins targeted by ebv proteins were enriched for highly connected or "hub" proteins and for proteins with relatively short paths to all other proteins in the human interactome network. targeting of hubs might be an efficient mechanism for ebv reorganization of cellular processes.
3383,direct visualization of the endomitotic cell cycle in living megakaryocytes: differential patterns in low and high ploidy cells.,endomitosis in megakaryocytes (mks) involves repeated dna replication in the absence of cytokinesis and is a crucial part of mk development. however  chromosomal dynamics have never been observed in living mks. we developed a new transgenic mouse model in which the expression of human histone h2b fused in-frame to green fluorescent protein is targeted to mks. ex vivo time-lapse microscopy analysis indicated that chromosomal condensation occurs at early mitosis in all mks. in high ploidy mks (>or=8n)  late anaphase was marked by a ring-type alignment of chromosomes with multiple territories formed between them. by contrast  in low ploidy mks mitotic chromosomes segregated to form two groups separated by a clear space before re-joining to one cluster. this is the first study to document chromosomal segregation patterns during endomitosis ex vivo and to indicate their potential differential regulation in low and high ploidy cells.
3385,histone/protein deacetylase inhibitors increase suppressive functions of human foxp3+ tregs.,histone/protein deacetylases (hdacs) decrease histone and protein acetylation  typically leading to suppression of gene transcription and modulation of various protein functions. we found significant differences in expression of hdac before and after stimulation of human t regulatory (treg) and t effector cells  suggesting the potential for future selective targeting of tregs with hdac inhibitors (hdaci). use of various hdaci small molecules enhanced  by up to 4.5-fold (average 2-fold)  the suppressive functions of both freshly isolated and expanded human tregs  consistent with our previous murine data. hdaci use increased treg expression of ctla-4  a key negative regulator of immune response  and we found a direct and significant correlation between ctla-4 expression and treg suppression. hence  hdaci compounds are promising pharmacologic tools to increase treg suppressive functions  and this action may potentially be of use in patients with autoimmunity or post-transplantation.
3387,a lineage of myeloid cells independent of myb and hematopoietic stem cells.,macrophages and dendritic cells (dcs) are key components of cellular immunity and are thought to originate and renew from hematopoietic stem cells (hscs). however  some macrophages develop in the embryo before the appearance of definitive hscs. we thus reinvestigated macrophage development. we found that the transcription factor myb was required for development of hscs and all cd11b(high) monocytes and macrophages  but was dispensable for yolk sac (ys) macrophages and for the development of ys-derived f4/80(bright) macrophages in several tissues  such as liver kupffer cells  epidermal langerhans cells  and microglia--cell populations that all can persist in adult mice independently of hscs. these results define a lineage of tissue macrophages that derive from the ys and are genetically distinct from hsc progeny.
3389,targeted therapies in urothelial carcinoma.,purpose of review greater understanding of the biology and genetics of urothelial carcinoma is helping to identify and define the role of molecules and pathways appropriate for novel-targeted therapies. here  we review the targeted therapies that have been reported or are in ongoing urothelial carcinoma clinical trials  and highlight molecular targets characterized in preclinical and clinical studies. recent findings trials in nonmuscle-invasive bladder cancer are evaluating the role of immunotherapy and agents targeting vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) or fibroblast growth factor receptor-3. in muscle-invasive bladder cancer  neoadjuvant studies have focused on combining vegf agents with chemotherapy; adjuvant studies are testing vaccines and agents targeting the human epidermal growth factor receptor 2  p53  and hsp27. in the first-line treatment of metastatic urothelial carcinoma  tubulin  cytotoxic t-lymphocyte antigen 4  hsp27  and p53 are novel targets in clinical trials. the majority of targeted agents studied in urothelial carcinoma are in the second-line setting; new targets include cd105  polo-like kinase-1  phosphatidylinositide 3-kinases (pi3k)  transforming growth factor β receptor/activin receptor-like kinase β  estrogen receptor  and the hepatocyte growth factor receptor (hgfr or met). summary development of targeted therapies for urothelial carcinoma is still in early stages  consequently there have been no major therapeutic advances to date. however  greater understanding of urothelial carcinoma and solid tumor biology has resulted in a proliferation of clinical trials that could lead to significant advances in treatment strategies.
3391,amitriptyline is effective in chronic but not in episodic tension-type headache: pathogenetic implications.,the tricyclic antidepressant  amitriptyline  is an effective drug for the treatment of chronic tension-type headache and for other chronic pain syndromes  but it is also effective in the prophylaxis of an episodic type of headache such as migraine. however  its efficacy in episodic tension-type headache has not yet been clarified. we compared the efficacy of amitriptyline (25 mg/day) in 82 nondepressed patients with either chronic or episodic tension-type headache in an open-label study. amitriptyline significantly reduced (p < 0.05) frequency and duration of headache as well as analgesic consumption in chronic  but not in episodic  tension-type headache. further placebo-controlled trials  possibly with higher doses of amitriptyline  might confirm if the different pattern of response to amitriptyline can be explained in terms of different involvement of central nociception and of peripheral myofascial factors in the chronic and in the episodic forms of tension-type headache.
3393,hypoalbuminemia in acute illness: is there a rationale for intervention? a meta-analysis of cohort studies and controlled trials.,objective to determine whether hypoalbuminemia is an independent risk factor for poor outcome in the acutely ill  and to assess the potential of exogenous albumin administration for improving outcomes in hypoalbuminemic patients. summary background data hypoalbuminemia is associated with poor outcomes in acutely ill patients  but whether this association is causal has remained unclear. trials investigating albumin therapy to correct hypoalbuminemia have proven inconclusive. methods a meta-analysis was conducted of 90 cohort studies with 291 433 total patients evaluating hypoalbuminemia as an outcome predictor by multivariate analysis and  separately  of nine prospective controlled trials with 535 total patients on correcting hypoalbuminemia. results hypoalbuminemia was a potent  dose-dependent independent predictor of poor outcome. each 10-g/l decline in serum albumin concentration significantly raised the odds of mortality by 137%  morbidity by 89%  prolonged intensive care unit and hospital stay respectively by 28% and 71%  and increased resource utilization by 66%. the association between hypoalbuminemia and poor outcome appeared to be independent of both nutritional status and inflammation. analysis of dose-dependency in controlled trials of albumin therapy suggested that complication rates may be reduced when the serum albumin level attained during albumin administration exceeds 30 g/l.   conclusions hypoalbuminemia is strongly associated with poor clinical outcomes. further well-designed trials are needed to characterize the effects of albumin therapy in hypoalbuminemic patients. in the interim  there is no compelling basis to withhold albumin therapy if it is judged clinically appropriate.
3395,generation of t cell receptor–retrogenic mice: improved retroviral-mediated stem cell gene transfer,the use of retrogenic mice offers a rapid and flexible approach to t cell receptor (tcr)-transgenic mice. by transducing bone marrow progenitor cells with a retrovirus that encodes a given tcr-α/β subunit  tcr-retrogenic mice can be generated in as few as 4–6 weeks  whereas conventional tcr transgenics can take 6 months or longer. in this updated protocol  we have increased the efficiency of the bone marrow transduction and bone marrow reconstitution compared with our previously published protocol. the main departure from the previous protocol is the implementation of spin transduction with the viral supernatant instead of coculture with the viral producer cell line. the changes in this protocol improve bone marrow viability  increase consistency of the bone marrow transduction and bone marrow engraftment  and they reduce the ratio of bone marrow donor mice to bone marrow recipients.
3397,the death receptor cd95 activates adult neural stem cells for working memory formation and brain repair.,adult neurogenesis persists in the subventricular zone and the dentate gyrus and can be induced upon central nervous system injury. however  the final contribution of newborn neurons to neuronal networks is limited. here we show that in neural stem cells  stimulation of the "death receptor" cd95 does not trigger apoptosis but unexpectedly leads to increased stem cell survival and neuronal specification. these effects are mediated via activation of the src/pi3k/akt/mtor signaling pathway  ultimately leading to a global increase in protein translation. induction of neurogenesis by cd95 was further confirmed in the ischemic ca1 region  in the naive dentate gyrus  and after forced expression of cd95l in the adult subventricular zone. lack of hippocampal cd95 resulted in a reduction in neurogenesis and working memory deficits. following global ischemia  cd95-mediated brain repair rescued behavioral impairment. thus  we identify the cd95/cd95l system as an instructive signal for ongoing and injury-induced neurogenesis.
3399,pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (pacap(1-38)) enhances n-methyl-d-aspartate receptor function and brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression via rack1.,we recently identified a novel mechanism for modulation of the phosphorylation state and function of the n-methyl-d-aspartate (nmda) receptor via the scaffolding protein rack1. we found that rack1 binds both the nr2b subunit of the nmda receptor and the nonreceptor protein-tyrosine kinase  fyn. rack1 inhibits fyn phosphorylation of nr2b and decreases nmda receptor-mediated currents in ca1 hippocampal slices (yaka  r.  thornton  c.  vagts  a. j.  phamluong  k.  bonci  a.  and ron  d. (2002) proc. natl. acad. sci. u. s. a. 99  5710-5715). here  we identified the signaling cascade by which rack1 is released from the nmda receptor complex and identified the consequences of the dissociation. we found that activation of the camp/protein kinase a pathway in hippocampal slices induced the release of rack1 from nr2b and fyn. this resulted in the induction of nr2b phosphorylation and the enhancement of nmda receptor-mediated activity via fyn. we identified the neuropeptide  pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide (pacap(1-38))  as a ligand that induced phosphorylation of nr2b and enhanced nmda receptor potentials. finally  we found that activation of the camp/protein kinase a pathway induced the movement of rack1 to the nuclear compartment in dissociated hippocampal neurons. nuclear rack1 in turn was found to regulate the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor induced by pacap(1-38). taken together our results suggest that activation of adenylate cyclase by pacap(1-38) results in the release of rack1 from the nmda receptor and fyn. this in turn leads to nmda receptor phosphorylation  enhanced activity mediated by fyn  and to the induction of brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression by rack1.
3401,lipoxins: novel series of biologically active compounds formed from arachidonic acid in human leukocytes.,trihydroxytetraenes  a novel series of oxygenated derivatives formed from arachidonic acid in human leukocytes  were recently isolated [serhan  c. n.  hamberg  m. & samuelsson  b. (1984) biochem. biophys. res. commun. 118  943-949]. the structure of the major compound was established--i.e.  5 6 15l-trihydroxy-7 9 11 13-icosatetraenoic acid. the present study reports the structure of a second member of the trihydroxytetraene series of compounds--i.e.  5d 14 15l-trihydroxy-6 8 10 12-icosatetraenoic acid. when added to human neutrophils  5 6 15l-trihydroxy-7 9 11 13-icosatetraenoic acid stimulated superoxide anion generation and degranulation at submicromolar concentrations without provoking a substantial aggregation response. with respect to superoxide anion generation  5 6 15l-trihydroxy-7 9 11 13-icosatetraenoic acid proved to be as potent as leukotriene b4. in contrast  the compound was approximately 2 orders of magnitude less potent than either leukotriene b4 or fmet-leu-phe at provoking degranulation. the results indicate that interaction(s) between the 5- and 15-lipoxygenase pathways of human leukocytes leads to formation of a new series of oxygenated derivatives of arachidonic acid that may be involved in regulating specific cellular responses. the trivial names lipoxin a (5 6 15l-trihydroxy-7 9 11 13-icosatetraenoic acid) and lipoxin b (5d 14 15l-trihydroxy-6 8 10 12-icosatetraenoic acid) are proposed for the new compounds.
3403,sudden infant death syndrome and unclassified sudden infant deaths: a definitional and diagnostic approach.,the definition of sudden infant death syndrome (sids) originally appeared in 1969 and was modified 2 decades later. during the following 15 years  an enormous amount of additional information has emerged  justifying additional refinement of the definition of sids to incorporate epidemiologic features  risk factors  pathologic features  and ancillary test findings. an expert panel of pediatric and forensic pathologists and pediatricians considered these issues and developed a new general definition of sids for administrative and vital statistics purposes. the new definition was then stratified to facilitate research into sudden infant death. another category  defined as unclassified sudden infant deaths  was introduced for cases that do not meet the criteria for a diagnosis of sids and for which alternative diagnoses of natural or unnatural conditions were equivocal. it is anticipated that these new definitions will be modified in the future to accommodate new understanding of sids and sudden infant death.
3405,lung carcinogenesis by diesel exhaust particles and the carcinogenic mechanism via active oxygens.,in an experiment to clarify the involvement of oxygen radicals in lung carcinogenesis induced by diesel exhaust particles (dep)  we found that there is a strong relation between lung tumor response and formation of 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine (8-ohdg) in lung dna of mice administered dep by repeated intratracheal instillation. repeated intratracheal instillation of dep also induced the activity of cytochrome p-450 reductase in the lungs as a representative enzyme of superoxide generation  and two types of nitric oxide (no) synthase  cnos and inos  in the lungs. on the other hand  activities of cuzn-superoxide dismutase (sod) and mn-sod antioxidant enzymes were depressed by the instillation of dep. these results suggest that generation of superoxide  hydroxyi radical  and nitric oxide are increased in epithelial cells in airways  and that the increased superoxide and nitric oxide react very easily to produce peroxynitrite (onoo(-)). the peroxynitrite also produce hydroxyi radical. the hydroxyl radical may play an important role in carcinogenesis by dep.
3407,circulating plasma micrornas as a screening method for detection of colorectal adenomas.,background micrornas (mirnas) are small non-coding rna molecules. reduced or increased levels of specific mirnas are observed in colon and other cancers  supporting their role in carcinogenesis. detection of colorectal polyps is the cornerstone of the bowel cancer screening programme in the uk. however  uptake of screening nationally remains under 60%. we aimed to see whether circulating plasma mirnas can be used to screen for patients with colorectal polyps  adenomas  or both. methods blood samples were taken from patients from the bowel cancer screening programme (asymptomatic but faecal occult blood testing [fobt] positive). plasma rna was extracted  target mirnas (19a  98  146b  186  191  222*  331-5p  452  625  664  1247) were identified on pooled case mirna assay cards  and mirna fraction was quantified by quantitative rt-pcr assay. results were compared with endoscopy reports and with histology of any polyps identified and removed. analysis was done with excel (2011) and spss (version 20) software. findings 210 patients were included (117 with polyps  12 with cancer  81 healthy controls [fobt positive]). the mirna panel showed significant differences in expression (on t testing) for patients compared with controls for those with polyps  cancer  or both (mir-19a  p=0·0184; mir-98  p=0·0206; mir-146b  p=0·0029; mir-186  p=0·0006; mir-62 5 p=0·0008)  polyps (mir-19a  p=0·0233; mir-98  p=0·0224; mir-146b  p=0·003; mir-186  p=0·0004; mir-625  p=0·001)  adenomas (mir-19a  p=0·0339; mir-98  p=0·0266; mir-146b  p=0·0045; mir-186  p=0·0008; mir-625  p=0·0049)  multiple adenomas (both sides of colon; mir-146b  p=0·0194; mir-186  p=0·0226; mir-625  p=0·0013)  and right-sided adenomas (mir-98  p=0·031; mir-146b  p=0·0076; mir-186  p=0·0041; mir-331-5p  p=0·0142; mir-625  p=0·0049). receiver operating characteristic analysis showed sensitivity of 60% or more  and specificity of 86% or more for men with polyps  men with adenomas  all patients with haemorrhoids or diverticulosis and polyps  and all patients with haemorrhoids or diverticulosis and adenomas. interpretation the target mirnas that we identified showed significant differences in expression levels for patients with polyps and patients with adenomas from controls. use of this panel has potential as a screening test. funding bowel disease research foundation.
3409,nature and anisotropy of cortical forces orienting drosophila tissue morphogenesis,the morphogenesis of developing embryos and organs relies on the ability of cells to remodel their contacts with neighbouring cells. using quantitative modelling and laser nano-dissection  we probed the mechanics of a morphogenetic process  the elongation of drosophila melanogaster embryos  which results from polarized cell neighbour exchanges. we show that anisotropy of cortical tension at apical cell junctions is sufficient to drive tissue elongation. we estimated its value through comparisons between in silico and in vivo data using various tissue descriptors. nano-dissection of the actomyosin network indicates that tension is anisotropically distributed and depends on myosin ii accumulation. junction relaxation after nano-dissection also suggests that cortical elastic forces are dominant in this process. interestingly  fluctuations in vertex position (points where three or more cells meet) facilitate neighbour exchanges. we delineate the contribution of subcellular tensile activity polarizing junction remodelling  and the permissive role of vertex fluctuations during tissue elongation.
3411,two-tiered coupling between flowing actin and immobilized n-cadherin/catenin complexes in neuronal growth cones.,neuronal growth cones move forward by dynamically connecting actin-based motility to substrate adhesion  but the mechanisms at the individual molecular level remain unclear. we cultured primary neurons on n-cadherin-coated micropatterned substrates  and imaged adhesion and cytoskeletal proteins at the ventral surface of growth cones using single particle tracking combined to photoactivated localization microscopy (sptpalm). we demonstrate transient interactions in the second time scale between flowing actin filaments and immobilized n-cadherin/catenin complexes  translating into a local reduction of the actin retrograde flow. normal actin flow on micropatterns was rescued by expression of a dominant negative n-cadherin construct competing for the coupling between actin and endogenous n-cadherin. fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (frap) experiments confirmed the differential kinetics of actin and n-cadherin  and further revealed a 20% actin population confined at n-cadherin micropatterns  contributing to local actin accumulation. computer simulations with relevant kinetic parameters modeled n-cadherin and actin turnover well  validating this mechanism. such a combination of short- and long-lived interactions between the motile actin network and spatially restricted adhesive complexes represents a two-tiered clutch mechanism likely to sustain dynamic environment sensing and provide the force necessary for growth cone migration.
3413,functional reprogramming of polyploidization in megakaryocytes.,polyploidization is a natural process that frequently accompanies differentiation; its deregulation is linked to genomic instability and cancer. despite its relevance  why cells select different polyploidization mechanisms is unknown. here we report a systematic genetic analysis of endomitosis  a process in which megakaryocytes become polyploid by entering mitosis but aborting anaphase. whereas ablation of the apc/c cofactor cdc20 results in mitotic arrest and severe thrombocytopenia  lack of the kinases aurora-b  cdk1  or cdk2 does not affect megakaryocyte polyploidization or platelet levels. ablation of cdk1 forces a switch to endocycles without mitosis  whereas polyploidization in the absence of cdk1 and cdk2 occurs in the presence of aberrant re-replication events. importantly  ablation of these kinases rescues the defects in cdc20 null megakaryocytes. these findings suggest that endomitosis can be functionally replaced by alternative polyploidization mechanisms in vivo and provide the cellular basis for therapeutic approaches aimed to discriminate mitotic and polyploid cells.
3415,simvastatin reduces platelet-endocardium adhesion in atrial fibrillation.,objectives to evaluate the relationship between cd40/cd40l system and increased thrombogenesis in af  and to test the effects of simvastatin treatment. methods in vitro study using human tissue  university hospital (tertiary referral center). experiments on right atrial segments obtained before the onset of cardiopulmonary bypass were done in either presence or absence of 5 microm simvastatin. two groups of patients in either chronic atrial fibrillation or sinus rhythm at the time of cardiac surgery. the endocardial expression of cd40  the release of cd40l  and adhesion of platelets to endocardium. additionally  the thickness of platelet aggregates and the platelet distribution on the endocardium were also evaluated. results atrial fibrillation was associated with a significant increase of endocardial cd40 expression (293.1+/-55.1 pg/ml vs. 230.9+/-53.3 pg/ml  p<0.01)  and platelet-endocardial adhesion compared with sinus rhythm atria (10.8+/-2.2 vs. 5.2+/-1.3 platelet cd41 au p<0.01). at immunofluorescence about 62% of fibrillating endocardium was covered by platelets  compared with 12% of not sinus rhythm atria. addition of simvastatin significantly reduced cd40 expression as well as platelet adhesion to fibrillating atria; its efficacy was not reversed by the addition of mevalonic acid. conclusions chronic atrial fibrillation acutely upregulates cd40 expression as well as platelet adhesion to the endocardium. simvastatin is effective in modulating this expression  thus it may potentially contribute to reduce the risk of intra-atrial thrombus formation.
3417,advantages and pitfalls of fructosamine and glycated albumin in the diagnosis and treatment of diabetes.,the efficient diagnosis and accurate monitoring of diabetic patients are cornerstones for reducing the risk of diabetic complications. the current diagnostic and prognostic strategies in diabetes are mainly based on two tests  plasma (or capillary) glucose and glycated hemoglobin (hba1c). nevertheless  these measures are not foolproof  and their clinical usefulness is biased by a number of clinical and analytical factors. the introduction of other indices of glucose homeostasis in clinical practice such as fructosamine and glycated albumin (ga) may be regarded as an attractive alternative  especially in patients in whom the measurement of hba1c may be biased or even unreliable. these include patients with rapid changes of glucose homeostasis and larger glycemic excursions  and patients with red blood cell disorders and renal disease. according to available evidence  the overall diagnostic efficiency of ga seems superior to that of fructosamine throughout a broad range of clinical settings. the current method for measuring ga is also better standardized and less vulnerable to preanalytical variables than those used for assessing fructosamine. additional advantages of ga over hba1c are represented by lower reagent cost and being able to automate the ga analysis on many conventional laboratory instruments. although further studies are needed to definitely establish that ga can complement or even replace conventional measures of glycemic control such as hba1c  ga may help the clinical management of patients with diabetes in whom hba1c values might be unreliable.
3419,steroid regulation of c. elegans diapause  developmental timing  and longevity.,hormones play a critical role in driving major stage transitions and developmental timing events in many species. in the nematode c. elegans the steroid hormone receptor  daf-12  works at the confluence of pathways regulating developmental timing  stage specification  and longevity. daf-12 couples environmental and physiologic signals to life history regulation  and it is embedded in a rich architecture governing diverse processes. here  we highlight the molecular insights  extraordinary circuitry  and signaling pathways governing life stage transitions in the worm and how they have yielded fundamental insights into steroid regulation of biological time.
3421,dietary status of trained female cyclists.,dietary status was evaluated in eight highly trained female cyclists. each cyclist kept a 3-day weighed food record. diets were analyzed for nutrient content using a computerized software package. blood was also obtained and evaluated for hemoglobin  hematocrit  and albumin. for an athletic group  the cyclists' diets were found to be low in energy (85% rda) and carbohydrate (4.4 gm/kg body weight per day). mean daily dietary intakes were well below the rdas for folacin (76% rda)  magnesium (81%)  iron (59%)  and zinc (48%). in addition  more than one-third of the cyclists failed to consume 67% of the rda for the following micronutrients: pyridoxine  folacin  cobalamin  vitamin e  magnesium  iron  and zinc. hemoglobin (135 gm/l)  hematocrit (0.39)  and albumin (45 gm/l) values were all normal  although most hemoglobin values were in the lower 50% of normal range. foods such as meats  poultry  fish  beans  peas  and nuts were low or absent from the diets of most athletes. dietary quality in this group of female cyclists could have been greatly improved with the addition of more of those foods. these athletes could benefit from nutrition education and diet counseling.
3423,angiopoietin 2 is a partial agonist/antagonist of tie2 signaling in the endothelium.,angiopoietin 2 (ang2) was originally shown to be a competitive antagonist for ang1 of the receptor tyrosine kinase tie2 in endothelial cells (ecs). since then  reports have conflicted on whether ang2 is an agonist or antagonist of tie2. here we show that ang2 functions as an agonist when ang1 is absent but as a dose-dependent antagonist when ang1 is present. exogenous ang2 activates tie2 and the promigratory  prosurvival pi3k/akt pathway in ecs but with less potency and lower affinity than exogenous ang1. ecs produce ang2 but not ang1. this endogenous ang2 maintains tie2  phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase  and akt activities  and it promotes ec survival  migration  and tube formation. however  when ecs are stimulated with ang1 and ang2  ang2 dose-dependently inhibits ang1-induced tie2 phosphorylation  akt activation  and ec survival. we conclude that ang2 is both an agonist and an antagonist of tie2. although ang2 is a weaker agonist than ang1  endogenous ang2 maintains a level of tie2 activation that is critical to a spectrum of ec functions. these findings may reconcile disparate reports of ang2's effect on tie2  impact our understanding of endogenous receptor tyrosine kinase signal transduction mechanisms  and affect how ang2 and tie2 are targeted under conditions such as sepsis and cancer.
3425,vitamin d: the "sunshine" vitamin.,vitamin d insufficiency affects almost 50% of the population worldwide. an estimated 1 billion people worldwide  across all ethnicities and age groups  have a vitamin d deficiency (vdd). this pandemic of hypovitaminosis d can mainly be attributed to lifestyle (for example  reduced outdoor activities) and environmental (for example  air pollution) factors that reduce exposure to sunlight  which is required for ultraviolet-b (uvb)-induced vitamin d production in the skin. high prevalence of vitamin d insufficiency is a particularly important public health issue because hypovitaminosis d is an independent risk factor for total mortality in the general population. current studies suggest that we may need more vitamin d than presently recommended to prevent chronic disease. as the number of people with vdd continues to increase  the importance of this hormone in overall health and the prevention of chronic diseases are at the forefront of research. vdd is very common in all age groups. as few foods contain vitamin d  guidelines recommended supplementation at suggested daily intake and tolerable upper limit levels. it is also suggested to measure the serum 25-hydroxyvitamin d level as the initial diagnostic test in patients at risk for deficiency. treatment with either vitamin d2 or vitamin d3 is recommended for deficient patients. a meta-analysis published in 2007 showed that vitamin d supplementation was associated with significantly reduced mortality. in this review  we will summarize the mechanisms that are presumed to underlie the relationship between vitamin d and understand its biology and clinical implications.
3427,the physiological regulation of toll-like receptor expression and function in humans.,eleven mammalian toll-like receptors (tlrs 1-11) have been identified to date and are known to play a crucial role in the regulation of immune responses; however  the factors that regulate tlr expression and function in vivo are poorly understood. therefore  in the present study  we investigated the physiological regulation of tlr expression and function in humans. to examine the influence of diurnal rhythmicity on tlr expression and function  peripheral venous blood samples were collected from healthy volunteers (n = 8) at time points coinciding with the peak and nadir in the endogenous circulating cortisol concentration. while no diurnal rhythmicity in the expression of tlrs 1  2  4 or 9 was observed  the upregulation of costimulatory (cd80 and cd86) and antigen-presenting (mhc class ii) molecules on cd14(+) monocytes following activation with specific tlr ligands was greater (p < 0.05) in samples obtained in the evening compared with the morning. to examine the influence of physical stress on tlr expression and function  peripheral venous blood samples were collected from healthy volunteers (n = 11) at rest and following 1.5 h of strenuous exercise in the heat (34 degrees c). strenuous exercise resulted in a decrease (p < 0.005) in the expression of tlrs 1  2 and 4 on cd14(+) monocytes. furthermore  the upregulation of cd80  cd86  mhc class ii and interleukin-6 by cd14(+) monocytes following activation with specific tlr ligands was decreased (p < 0.05) in samples obtained following exercise compared with at rest. these results demonstrate that tlr function is subject to modulation under physiological conditions in vivo and provide evidence for the role of immunomodulatory hormones in the regulation of tlr function.
3429,poly(adp-ribose) polymerase 1 represses liver x receptor-mediated abca1 expression and cholesterol efflux in macrophages.,liver x receptors (lxr) are oxysterol-activated nuclear receptors that play a central role in reverse cholesterol transport through up-regulation of atp-binding cassette transporters (abca1 and abcg1) that mediate cellular cholesterol efflux. mouse models of atherosclerosis exhibit reduced atherosclerosis and enhanced regression of established plaques upon lxr activation. however  the coregulatory factors that affect lxr-dependent gene activation in macrophages remain to be elucidated. to identify novel regulators of lxr that modulate its activity  we used affinity purification and mass spectrometry to analyze nuclear lxrα complexes and identified poly(adp-ribose) polymerase-1 (parp-1) as an lxr-associated factor. in fact  parp-1 interacted with both lxrα and lxrβ. both depletion of parp-1 and inhibition of parp-1 activity augmented lxr ligand-induced abca1 expression in the raw 264.7 macrophage line and primary bone marrow-derived macrophages but did not affect lxr-dependent expression of other target genes  abcg1 and srebp-1c. chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments confirmed parp-1 recruitment at the lxr response element in the promoter of the abca1 gene. further  we demonstrated that lxr is poly(adp-ribosyl)ated by parp-1  a potential mechanism by which parp-1 influences lxr function. importantly  the parp inhibitor 3-aminobenzamide enhanced macrophage abca1-mediated cholesterol efflux to the lipid-poor apolipoprotein ai. these findings shed light on the important role of parp-1 on lxr-regulated lipid homeostasis. understanding the interplay between parp-1 and lxr may provide insights into developing novel therapeutics for treating atherosclerosis.
3431,immunophenotypic analysis of aids-related diffuse large b-cell lymphoma and clinical implications in patients from aids malignancies consortium clinical trials 010 and 034,purpose diffuse large b-cell lymphoma (dlbcl) represents a clinically heterogeneous disease. models based on immunohistochemistry predict clinical outcome. these include subdivision into germinal center (gc) versus non-gc subtypes; proliferation index (measured by expression of ki-67)  and expression of bcl-2  foxp1  or b-lymphocyte-induced maturation protein (blimp-1)/prdm1. we sought to determine whether immunohistochemical analyses of biopsies from patients with dlbcl having hiv infection are similarly relevant for prognosis. patients and methods we examined 81 dlbcls from patients with aids in amc010 (cyclophosphamide  doxorubicin  vincristine  and prednisone [chop] v chop-rituximab) and amc034 (etoposide  doxorubicin  vincristine  prednisone  and dose-adjusted cyclophosphamide plus rituximab concurrent v sequential) clinical trials and compared the immunophenotype with survival data  epstein-barr virus (ebv) positivity  and cd4 counts. results the gc and non-gc subtypes of dlbcl did not differ significantly with respect to overall survival or cd4 count at cancer presentation. ebv could be found in both subtypes of dlbcl  although less frequently in the gc subtype  and did not affect survival. expression of foxp1  blimp-1/prdm1  or bcl-2 was not correlated with the outcome in patients with aids-related dlbcl. conclusion these data indicate that with current treatment strategies for lymphoma and control of hiv infection  commonly used immunohistochemical markers may not be clinically relevant in hiv-infected patients with dlbcl. the only predictive immunohistochemical marker was found to be ki-67  where a higher proliferation index was associated with better survival  suggesting a better response to therapy in patients whose tumors had higher proliferation rates.
3433,analysis of epstein-barr virus-regulated host gene expression changes through primary b-cell outgrowth reveals delayed kinetics of latent membrane protein 1-mediated nf-κb activation.,epstein-barr virus (ebv) is an oncogenic human herpesvirus that dramatically reorganizes host gene expression to immortalize primary b cells. in this study  we analyzed ebv-regulated host gene expression changes following primary b-cell infection  both during initial proliferation and through transformation into lymphoblastoid cell lines (lcls). while most ebv-regulated mrnas were changed during the transition from resting  uninfected b cells through initial b-cell proliferation  a substantial number of mrnas changed uniquely from early proliferation through lcl outgrowth. we identified constitutively and dynamically ebv-regulated biological processes  protein classes  and targets of specific transcription factors. early after infection  genes associated with proliferation  stress responses  and the p53 pathway were highly enriched. however  the transition from early to long-term outgrowth was characterized by genes involved in the inhibition of apoptosis  the actin cytoskeleton  and nf-κb activity. it was previously thought that the major viral protein responsible for nf-κb activation  latent membrane protein 1 (lmp1)  is expressed within 2 days after infection. our data indicate that while this is true  lcl-level lmp1 expression and nf-κb activity are not evident until 3 weeks after primary b-cell infection. furthermore  heterologous nf-κb activation during the first week after infection increased the transformation efficiency  while early nf-κb inhibition had no effect on transformation. rather  inhibition of nf-κb was not toxic to ebv-infected cells until lmp1 levels and nf-κb activity were high. these data collectively highlight the dynamic nature of ebv-regulated host gene expression and support the notion that early ebv-infected proliferating b cells have a fundamentally distinct growth and survival phenotype from that of lcls.
3435,acoustic landmarks drive delta-theta oscillations to enable speech comprehension by facilitating perceptual parsing.,a growing body of research suggests that intrinsic neuronal slow (<10 hz) oscillations in auditory cortex appear to track incoming speech and other spectro-temporally complex auditory signals. within this framework  several recent studies have identified critical-band temporal envelopes as the specific acoustic feature being reflected by the phase of these oscillations. however  how this alignment between speech acoustics and neural oscillations might underpin intelligibility is unclear. here we test the hypothesis that the 'sharpness' of temporal fluctuations in the critical band envelope acts as a temporal cue to speech syllabic rate  driving delta-theta rhythms to track the stimulus and facilitate intelligibility. we interpret our findings as evidence that sharp events in the stimulus cause cortical rhythms to re-align and parse the stimulus into syllable-sized chunks for further decoding. using magnetoencephalographic recordings  we show that by removing temporal fluctuations that occur at the syllabic rate  envelope-tracking activity is reduced. by artificially reinstating these temporal fluctuations  envelope-tracking activity is regained. these changes in tracking correlate with intelligibility of the stimulus. together  the results suggest that the sharpness of fluctuations in the stimulus  as reflected in the cochlear output  drive oscillatory activity to track and entrain to the stimulus  at its syllabic rate. this process likely facilitates parsing of the stimulus into meaningful chunks appropriate for subsequent decoding  enhancing perception and intelligibility.
3437,plasmid-encoded proinsulin preserves c-peptide while specifically reducing proinsulin-specific cd8⁺ t cells in type 1 diabetes.,in type 1 diabetes (t1d)  there is an intense inflammatory response that destroys the β cells in the pancreatic islets of langerhans  the site where insulin is produced and released. a therapy for t1d that targets the specific autoimmune response in this disease while leaving the remainder of the immune system intact  has long been sought. proinsulin is a major target of the adaptive immune response in t1d. we hypothesized that an engineered dna plasmid encoding proinsulin (bht-3021) would preserve β cell function in t1d patients through reduction of insulin-specific cd8⁺ t cells. we studied 80 subjects over 18 years of age who were diagnosed with t1d within the past 5 years. subjects were randomized 2:1 to receive intramuscular injections of bht-3021 or bht-placebo  weekly for 12 weeks  and then monitored for safety and immune responses in a blinded fashion. four dose levels of bht-3021 were evaluated: 0.3  1.0  3.0  and 6.0 mg. c-peptide was used both as an exploratory efficacy measure and as a safety measure. islet-specific cd8⁺ t cell frequencies were assessed with multimers of monomeric human leukocyte antigen class i molecules loaded with peptides from pancreatic and unrelated antigens. no serious adverse events related to bht-3021 were observed. c-peptide levels improved relative to placebo at all doses  at 1 mg at the 15-week time point (+19.5% bht-3021 versus -8.8% bht-placebo  p < 0.026). proinsulin-reactive cd8⁺ t cells  but not t cells against unrelated islet or foreign molecules  declined in the bht-3021 arm (p < 0.006). no significant changes were noted in interferon-γ  interleukin-4 (il-4)  or il-10 production in cd4 t cells. thus  we demonstrate that a plasmid encoding proinsulin reduces the frequency of cd8⁺ t cells reactive to proinsulin while preserving c-peptide over the course of dosing.
3439,detection of sweet and umami taste in the absence of taste receptor t1r3.,the tastes of sugars (sweet) and glutamate (umami) are thought to be detected by t1r receptors expressed in taste cells. molecular genetics and heterologous expression implicate t1r2 plus t1r3 as a sweet-responsive receptor and t1r1 plus t1r3 as well as a truncated form of the type 4 metabotropic glutamate receptor (taste-mglur4) as umami-responsive receptors. here we show that mice lacking t1r3 showed no preference for artificial sweeteners and had diminished but not abolished behavioral and nerve responses to sugars and umami compounds. these results indicate that t1r3-independent sweet- and umami-responsive receptors and/or pathways exist in taste cells.
3441,metabolic effects of isoenergetic nutrient exchange over 24 hours in relation to obesity in women.,twenty-four hour whole body indirect calorimetry has been used to study the effects of feeding  during a sedentary test day  isoenergetic diets which varied in fat (3 or 40 per cent of total energy) and carbohydrate (82 or 45 per cent) content. three groups of women were studied: lean  obese and 'post-obese' after slimming. energy expenditure was greater in absolute terms in the obese women. twenty-four hour energy expenditure was lower by only 3-7 per cent when fasting compared to that when fed to achieve energy balance. there were no large differences in energy expenditure between the two diets or between the groups but the thermogenic effect of the high carbohydrate diet was significantly greater than that of the high fat diet (5.8 vs 3.5 per cent of energy expenditure: p less than 0.01). the post-obese tended to have lower energy expenditure per kg ffm than controls when fasting and when high-fat fed  but this pattern was not shown by the obese. sleeping energy expenditure was particularly low in the post-obese group when high-fat fed. dirunal variations in rq appear to show more marked rise in morning rq from the nocturnal minimum in the obese and post-obese  which might be evidence for an energy-saving mechanism through greater availability of stored dietary carbohydrate.
3443,fatty acids as modulators of the immune response.,research describing fatty acids as modulators of inflammation and immune responses abounds. many of these studies have focused on one particular group of fatty acids  omega-3. the data from animal studies have shown that these fatty acids can have powerful anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory activities in a wide array of diseases (e.g.  autoimmunity  arthritis  and infection). however  the evidence from human trials is more equivocal. in this review  a historical framework for understanding how and why fatty acids may affect the immune system is provided. second  highlights of two recent landmark reports from the agency for healthcare research and quality are presented. these reports critically evaluate the evidence from human clinical trials of omega-3 fatty acids and rheumatoid arthritis  asthma  and a few other immune-mediated diseases. third  the data from human clinical trials investigating the impact of various bioactive fatty acids on ex vivo and in vivo immune response are reviewed. limitations in experimental design and immune assays commonly used are discussed. the discordance between expectation and evidence in this field has been a disappointment. recommendations for improving both animal-based and human studies are provided.
3445,cell-cell adhesion and signalling.,signalling pathways activated by rho small gtpases have recently been identified that coordinate junction assembly  stability and function  as well as interactions of adhesive complexes with the underlying cortical cytoskeleton. particularly exciting is the interplay between adherens junctions  activation of rho proteins and the dynamics of microtubule  actin and intermediate filaments. this interplay has important implications for functional regulation of cell-cell adhesion  and points to a more integrated view of signalling processes.
3447,assessment of the cerebral circulation in adults with coarctation of the aorta.,aims there is a fivefold increase in the frequency of intracranial aneurysm (ia) in adults with coarctation of the aorta (coa). current guidelines for management of adults with coa recommend computed tomography angiography (cta) or magnetic resonance imaging of the intracranial vessels. however  this recommendation has not been universally accepted. the purpose of our study was to prospectively perform cta of the intracranial vessels in adults with coa to evaluate the prevalence and identify high-risk features of this complication. methods and results from january 2008 to february 2011  adults ≥18 years of age with coa were prospectively enrolled in a screening program with cta of the intracranial vessels. analyses of prognostic variables were performed with both fisher's exact and two sample t-test. forty-three patients (58% female  33.55 ± 10.21 years) with coa completed cta of the intracranial vessels. five patients (11%) were found to have ia. patients with ia were older than those without (45.6 ± 8.17 vs. 30.89 ± 7.89  p = 0.0003). there were no statistically significant differences detected between measurements of fasting lipid profiles  c-reactive protein  brain natriuretic peptide  and homocysteine levels among coa patients with and without ia (p = not significant). conclusion prospective screening of adults with coa confirmed the increased prevalence of ia but also identified increased age as the sole risk factor. these data suggested that screening is justified particularly in the fourth and fifth decades of life. further studies are required that focus on the development  natural history  and treatment of ia.
3449,embryonic stem cells require wnt proteins to prevent differentiation to epiblast stem cells,pluripotent stem cells exist in naive and primed states  epitomized by mouse embryonic stem cells (escs) and the developmentally more advanced epiblast stem cells (episcs; ref. ). in the naive state of escs  the genome has an unusual open conformation and possesses a minimum of repressive epigenetic marks. in contrast  episcs have activated the epigenetic machinery that supports differentiation towards the embryonic cell types. the transition from naive to primed pluripotency therefore represents a pivotal event in cellular differentiation. but the signals that control this fundamental differentiation step remain unclear. we show here that paracrine and autocrine wnt signals are essential self-renewal factors for escs  and are required to inhibit their differentiation into episcs. moreover  we find that wnt proteins in combination with the cytokine lif are sufficient to support esc self-renewal in the absence of any undefined factors  and support the derivation of new esc lines  including ones from non-permissive mouse strains. our results not only demonstrate that wnt signals regulate the naive-to-primed pluripotency transition  but also identify wnt as an essential and limiting esc self-renewal factor.
3451,anti-angiogenic activity of selected receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors  pd166285 and pd173074: implications for combination treatment with photodynamic therapy,angiogenesis  the formation of new blood vessels from an existing vasculature  is requisite for tumor growth. it entails intercellular coordination of endothelial and tumor cells through angiogenic growth factor signaling. interruption of these events has implications in the suppression of tumor growth. pd166285  a broad-spectrum receptor tyrosine kinase (rtk) inhibitor  and pd173074  a selective fgfr1tk inhibitor  were evaluated for their anti-angiogenic activity and anti-tumor efficacy in combination with photodynamic therapy (pdt). to evaluate the anti-angiogenic and anti-tumor activities of these compounds  rtk assays  in vitro tumor cell growth and microcapillary formation assays  in vivo murine angiogenesis and anti-tumor efficacy studies utilizing rtk inhibitors in combination with photodynamic therapy were performed. pd166285 inhibited pdgfr-β-  egfr-  and fgfr1tks and c-src tk by 50% (ic50) at concentrations between 7−85nm. pd173074 displayed selective inhibitory activity towards fgfr1tk at 26nm. pd173074 demonstrated (>100 fold) selective growth inhibitory action towards human umbilical vein endothelial cells compared with a panel of tumor cell lines. both pd166285 and pd173074 (at 10nm) inhibited the formation of microcapillaries on matrigel-coated plastic. in vivo anti-angiogenesis studies in mice revealed that oral administration (p.o.) of either pd166285 (1−25 mg/kg) or pd173074 (25−100 mg/kg) generated dose dependent inhibition of angiogenesis. against a murine mammary 16c tumor  significantly prolonged tumor regressions were achieved with daily p.o. doses of pd166285 (5−10 mg/kg) or pd173074 (30−60 mg/kg) following pdt compared with pdt alone (p<0.001). many long-term survivors were also noted in combination treatment groups. pd166285 and pd173074 displayed potent anti-angiogenic and anti-tumor activity and prolonged the duration of anti-tumor response to pdt. interference in membrane signal transduction by inhibitors of specific rtks (e.g. fgfr1tk) should result in new chemotherapeutic agents having the ability to limit tumor angiogenesis and regrowth following cytoreductive treatments such as pdt.
3453,serum cystatin c is related to pulse wave velocity even in subjects with normal serum creatinine,we hypothesized that serum cystatin c can be a more predictable marker of arterial stiffness than serum creatinine and creatinine-based glomerular filtration rate (gfr). the aim of this study is to evaluate whether serum cystatin c is related to arterial stiffness independently of serum creatinine in subjects for whom serum creatinine is normal. a total of 2 018 individuals (1 120 males  898 females) were enrolled. mean brachial-ankle pulse wave velocity (bapwv) was used as a marker of arterial stiffness and sex-specific analysis was performed. a positive relationship between bapwv and serum cystatin c (y=1109.0548+329.9102x  r2=0.056  p<0.001) was found in males. stepwise multivariate regression analysis in males showed that age  waist circumference  heart rate  cystatin c level  triglyceride level  and fasting glucose were independent contributors to bapwv. in females  a positive relationship between bapwv and serum cystatin c (y=1035.7828+402.2970x  r2=0.090  p<0.001) was found. stepwise multivariate regression analysis showed that age  heart rate  cystatin c level  fasting glucose and insulin level were independent contributors to bapwv. age  heart rate  fasting glucose and serum cystatin c were the significant variables in both genders that contributed to bapwv. in conclusion  this study confirmed that serum cystatin c was related to pulse wave velocity even in subjects with normal serum creatinine. this finding suggested that cystatin c could be a more predictable marker of arterial stiffness than serum creatinine and creatinine-based gfr.
3455,early life compartmentalization of human t cell differentiation and regulatory function in mucosal and lymphoid tissues,it is unclear how the immune response in early life becomes appropriately stimulated to provide protection while also avoiding excessive activation as a result of diverse new antigens. t cells are integral to adaptive immunity; mouse studies indicate that tissue localization of t cell subsets is important for both protective immunity and immunoregulation. in humans  however  the early development and function of t cells in tissues remain unexplored. we present here an analysis of lymphoid and mucosal tissue t cells derived from pediatric organ donors in the first two years of life  as compared to adult organ donors  revealing early compartmentalization of t cell differentiation and regulation. whereas adult tissues contain a predominance of memory t cells  in pediatric blood and tissues the main subset consists of naive recent thymic emigrants  with effector memory t cells (t(em)) found only in the lungs and small intestine. additionally  regulatory t (t(reg)) cells comprise a high proportion (30-40%) of cd4(+) t cells in pediatric tissues but are present at much lower frequencies (1-10%) in adult tissues. pediatric tissue t(reg) cells suppress endogenous t cell activation  and early t cell functionality is confined to the mucosal sites that have the lowest t(reg):t(em) cell ratios  which suggests control in situ of immune responses in early life.
3457,mitochondrial haplogroups and hypervariable region polymorphisms in schizophrenia: a case-control study.,previous studies have detected associations between mitochondrial haplogroups and schizophrenia (sz). however  no study has examined the relationship between major mitochondrial dna (mtdna) haplogroups and sz in the chinese population. the aim of this study was to assess the association between mtdna haplogroups and sz genesis in the chinese han population. we used a case-control study and sequenced the mtdna hypervariable regions (hvr1  hvr2  and hvr3) in the han population. we analyzed mtdna haplogroups and hvr polymorphisms in 298 sz patients and 298 controls. the haplotypes were classified into 10 major haplogroups: a  b  cz  d  f  g  m  n  n9a  and r. statistical analysis revealed that only n9a showed a nominally significant association with protection from sz [1.68% vs. 6.38%  p=0.004  or=0.251 (0.092-0.680); after adjustment for age and sex: p=0.006  or=0.246 (0.090-0.669)]. three hvr polymorphisms were found to be nominally significantly different between subjects with sz and controls  and all except one (m.204t>c) are linked to the n9a haplogroup. our results indicate that mtdna haplogroup n9a might be a protective factor for sz.
3459,the calcium sensor stim1 is regulated by androgens in prostate stromal cells.,background prostate development and maintenance in the adult results from an interaction of stromal and glandular components. androgens can drive this process by direct action on the stroma. we investigated whether there was a direct link between androgens and another key regulator of stromal cells  intracellular ca2+ ([ca2+ ]i ). methods prostate stromal cells were freshly obtained and cultures derived from patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia. gene expression in dihydrotestosterone treated and untreated cells was compared using affymetrix gene expression arrays and ca2+ regulated features were identified by gene ontology (go). changes in [ca2+]i were determined in fluo-4 loaded cells. androgen regulation was confirmed by chromatin immunoprecipitaion. results stromal cell cultures were sorted for expression of integrin α1 β1   which enriched for cells expressing the androgen receptor (ar). we identified key functional categories  within the androgen-induced gene expression signature  focusing on genes involved in calcium signaling. from this analysis  stromal interaction molecule-1 (stim1) was identified as a significantly differentially expressed gene with four relevant associated go terms. dna sequence analysis showed that the promoter region of stim1 contained putative androgen response element sequences in which ar binding ability of stim1 was confirmed. androgens directly regulated stim1 expression and stim1 effects on store-operated calcium entry were inhibited by stim1 knock-down. reduced stim1 expression in prostate stromal cells led to a reduction in basal ca2+ levels  the amount of ca2+ released by thapsigargin and a reduction in store filling following tg-induced store depletion. conclusions these results indicate that androgens modulate [ca2+]i through the direct regulation of the stim1 gene by ar binding to the stim1 promoter.
3461,noxa controls mule-dependent mcl-1 ubiquitination through the regulation of the mcl-1/usp9x interaction.,the level of the mcl-1 pro-survival protein is highly regulated  and the down-regulation of mcl-1 expression favors the apoptotic process. mcl-1 physically interacts with different bh3-only proteins; particularly  noxa is involved in the modulation of mcl-1 expression. in this study  we demonstrated that noxa triggers the degradation of mcl-1 at the mitochondria according to the exclusive location of noxa at this compartment. the noxa-induced degradation of mcl-1 required the e3 ligase mule  which is responsible for the polyubiquitination of mcl-1. because the usp9x deubiquitinase was recently demonstrated to be involved in mcl-1 protein turnover by preventing its degradation through the removal of conjugated ubiquitin  we investigated whether noxa affected the deubiquitination process. interestingly  noxa over-expression caused a decrease in the usp9x/mcl-1 interaction associated with an increase in the mcl-1 polyubiquitinated forms. additionally  noxa over-expression triggered an increase in the mule/mcl-1 interaction in parallel with the decrease in mule/usp9x complex formation. taken together  these modifications result in the degradation of mcl-1 by the proteasome machinery. the implication of noxa in the regulation of mcl-1 proteasomal degradation adds complexity to this process  which is governed by multiple interactions.
3463,potential role of nf-kappab in adult neural stem cells: the underrated steersman?,neural stem cells are precursors of neurons and glial cells. during brain development  these cells proliferate  migrate and differentiate into specific lineages. recently neural stem cells within the adult central nervous system were identified. informations are now emerging about regulation of stem cell proliferation  migration and differentiation by numerous soluble factors such as chemokines and cytokines. however  the signal transduction mechanisms downstream of these factors are less clear. here  we review potential evidences for a novel central role of the transcription factor nuclear factor kappa b (nf-kappab) in these crucial signal transduction processes. nf-kappab is an inducible transcription factor detected in neurons  glia and neural stem cells. nf-kappab was discovered by david baltimore's laboratory as a transcription factor in lymphocytes. nf-kappab is involved in many biological processes such as inflammation and innate immunity  development  apoptosis and anti-apoptosis. it has been recently shown that members of the nf-kappab family are widely expressed by neurons  glia and neural stem cells. in the nervous system  nf-kappab plays a crucial role in neuronal plasticity  learning  memory consolidation  neuroprotection and neurodegeneration. recent data suggest an important role of nf-kappab on proliferation  migration and differentiation of neural stem cells. nf-kappab is composed of three subunits: two dna-binding and one inhibitory subunit. activation of nf-kappab takes place in the cytoplasm and results in degradation of the inhibitory subunit  thus enabling the nuclear import of the dna-binding subunits. within the nucleus  several target genes could be activated. in this review  we suggest a model explaining the multiple action of nf-kappab on neural stem cells. furthermore  we discuss the potential role of nf-kappab within the so-called brain cancer stem cells.
3465,helicobacter hepaticus does not induce or potentiate colitis in interleukin-10-deficient mice.,helicobacter hepaticus has been reported to induce colitis  hepatitis  and hepatocellular carcinoma in several different murine models. the aim of this study was to determine if h. hepaticus will cause colitis in monoassociated mice lacking the interleukin-10 gene (il-10(-/-) mice) and potentiate colitis in specific-pathogen-free (spf) il-10(-/-) mice. germfree il-10(-/-) mice on either a mixed (c57bl/6 x 129/ola) or inbred (129/svev) genetic background were monoassociated with h. hepaticus atcc 51448 by oral feeding and rectal enemas. in a second experiment  germfree il-10(-/-) mice were colonized with stool from spf mice that harbored or did not harbor endogenous h. hepaticus. after 7 to 9 weeks of colonization  weight loss and mortality were assessed  the colon was isolated for histology and il-12 secretion  and mesenteric lymph node cells were assessed for t-cell activation markers. it was found that il-10(-/-) mice monoassociated with h. hepaticus for up to 16 weeks showed almost no histologic colitis or increased il-12 production. spf il-10-knockout mice had no significant difference in weight loss  mortality rate  histologic scores  colonic il-12 secretion  or t-cell activation with or without h. hepaticus. we conclude that h. hepaticus does not induce or potentiate disease in our il-10(-/-) mice and therefore is not required to induce colitis in genetically susceptible hosts.
3467,enhanced waterlogging tolerance in barley by manipulation of expression of the n‐end rule pathway e3 ligase proteolysis6 ,increased tolerance of crops to low oxygen (hypoxia) during flooding is a key target for food security. in arabidopsis thaliana (l.) heynh.  the n-end rule pathway of targeted proteolysis controls plant responses to hypoxia by regulating the stability of group vii ethylene response factor (erfvii) transcription factors  controlled by the oxidation status of amino terminal (nt)-cysteine (cys). here  we show that the barley (hordeum vulgare l.) erfvii berf1 is a substrate of the n-end rule pathway in vitro. furthermore  we show that nt-cys acts as a sensor for hypoxia in vivo  as the stability of the oxygen-sensor reporter protein mcggail-gus increased in waterlogged transgenic plants. transgenic rnai barley plants  with reduced expression of the n-end rule pathway n-recognin e3 ligase proteolysis6 (hvprt6)  showed increased expression of hypoxia-associated genes and altered seed germination phenotypes. in addition  in response to waterlogging  transgenic plants showed sustained biomass  enhanced yield  retention of chlorophyll  and enhanced induction of hypoxia-related genes. hvprt6 rnai plants also showed reduced chlorophyll degradation in response to continued darkness  often associated with waterlogged conditions. barley targeting induced local lesions in genomes (tilling) lines  containing mutant alleles of hvprt6  also showed increased expression of hypoxia-related genes and phenotypes similar to rnai lines. we conclude that the n-end rule pathway represents an important target for plant breeding to enhance tolerance to waterlogging in barley and other cereals.
3469,prediagnostic levels of c-peptide  igf-i  igfbp -1  -2 and -3 and risk of endometrial cancer.,conditions related to chronic hyperinsulinemia  such as obesity  noninsulin dependent diabetes mellitus and polycystic ovary syndrome  are associated with an increased risk of endometrial cancer. elevated plasma igf-i and decreased levels of igf-binding proteins have been shown to be associated with increased risk of several cancer types that are frequent in affluent societies. we investigated for the first time in a prospective study the association of pre-diagnostic blood concentrations of c-peptide (a marker of pancreatic insulin production)  igf-i  igfbp-1  -2 and -3 with endometrial cancer risk. a case-control study was nested within 3 cohorts in new york (usa)  umeå (sweden) and milan (italy). it included 166 women with primary invasive endometrial cancer and 315 matched controls  of which 44 case and 78 control subjects were premenopausal at recruitment. endometrial cancer risk increased with increasing levels of c-peptide (ptrend = 0.0002)  up to an odds ratio (or) of 4.76 [95% confidence interval (ci) = 1.91-11.8] for the highest quintile. this association remained after adjustment for bmi and other confounders [or for the top quintile = 4.40 (1.65-11.7)]. igfbp-1 levels were inversely related to endometrial cancer [ptrend = 0.002; or in the upper quintile = 0.30 (0.15-0.62)]  but the association was weakened and lost statistical significance after adjustment for confounders [ptrend = 0.06; or in the upper quintile = 0.49 (0.22-1.07)]. risk was unrelated to levels of igf-i  igfbp-2 and igfbp-3. chronic hyperinsulinemia  as reflected by increased circulating c-peptide  is associated with increased endometrial cancer risk. decrease in the prevalence of chronic hyperinsulinemia  through changes in lifestyle or medication  is expected to prevent endometrial cancer.
3471,chromatin immunoprecipitation and microarray-based analysis of protein location,genome-wide location analysis  also known as chip-chip  combines chromatin immunoprecipitation and dna microarray analysis to identify protein-dna interactions that occur in living cells. protein-dna interactions are captured in vivo by chemical crosslinking. cell lysis  dna fragmentation and immunoaffinity purification of the desired protein will co-purify dna fragments that are associated with that protein. the enriched dna population is then labeled  combined with a differentially labeled reference sample and applied to dna microarrays to detect enriched signals. various computational and bioinformatic approaches are then applied to normalize the enriched and reference channels  to connect signals to the portions of the genome that are represented on the dna microarrays  to provide confidence metrics and to generate maps of protein-genome occupancy. here  we describe the experimental protocols that we use from crosslinking of cells to hybridization of labeled material  together with insights into the aspects of these protocols that influence the results. these protocols require approximately 1 week to complete once sufficient numbers of cells have been obtained  and have been used to produce robust  high-quality chip-chip results in many different cell and tissue types.
3473,surfactant protein b suppresses lung cancer progression by inhibiting secretory phospholipase a2 activity and arachidonic acid production,background/aims: radiotherapy is applied to patients with inoperable cancer types including advanced stage non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) and radioresistance functions as a critical obstacle in radiotherapy. this study was aimed to investigate the mechanism of radioresistance regulated by surfactant protein b (sp-b). methods: to investigate the role of sp-b in radioresistance  δsftpb a549 cell line was established and sp-b expression was analyzed. in response to ionizing radiation (ir)  the change of sp-b expression was analyzed in a549 and nci-h441 cell lines. conditioned media (cm) from nsclc cells were utilized to evaluate the downstream signaling pathway. the in vivo effects of sp-b were assessed through mouse xenograft model with intratumoral injection of cm. results: in response to ir  nsclc cell lines showed decreased sp-b regulated by the tgf-β signaling and decreased sp-b stimulated cell survival and epithelial-mesenchymal transition. treatment with cm from irradiated cells activated spla2  enhanced protein kinase cδ-mapks signaling pathway  and increased arachidonic acid production. we confirmed the in vivo roles of sp-b through mouse xenograft model. conclusion: our results revealed that down-regulation of sp-b was involved in the radiation-induced metastatic conversion of nsclc and provided evidence that sp-b acted as a suppressor of nsclc progression.
3475,post-transcriptional regulation of ime1 determines initiation of meiosis in saccharomyces cerevisiae.,the ime1 gene of saccharomyces cerevisiae is required for initiation of meiosis. transcription of ime1 is detected under conditions which are known to induce initiation of meiosis  namely starvation for nitrogen and glucose  and the presence of mata1 and mat alpha 2 gene products. in this paper we show that ime1 is also subject to translational regulation. translation of ime1 mrna is achieved either upon nitrogen starvation  or upon g1 arrest. in the presence of nutrients  constitutively elevated transcription of ime1 is also sufficient for the translation of ime1 rna. four different conditions were found to cause expression of ime1 protein in vegetative cultures: elevated transcription levels due to the presence of ime1 on a multicopy plasmid; elevated transcription provided by a gal-ime1 construct; g1 arrest due to alpha-factor treatment; g1 arrest following mild heat-shock treatment of cdc28 diploids. using these conditions  we obtained evidence that starvation is required not only for transcription and efficient translation of ime1  but also for either the activation of ime1 protein or for the induction/activation of another factor that  either alone or in combination with ime1  induces meiosis.
3477,obstructive sleep apnea-hypopnea and incident stroke: the sleep heart health study.,rationale although obstructive sleep apnea is associated with physiological perturbations that increase risk of hypertension and are proatherogenic  it is uncertain whether sleep apnea is associated with increased stroke risk in the general population. objectives to quantify the incidence of ischemic stroke with sleep apnea in a community-based sample of men and women across a wide range of sleep apnea. methods baseline polysomnography was performed between 1995 and 1998 in a longitudinal cohort study. the primary exposure was the obstructive apnea-hypopnea index (oahi) and outcome was incident ischemic stroke. measurements and main results a total of 5 422 participants without a history of stroke at the baseline examination and untreated for sleep apnea were followed for a median of 8.7 years. one hundred ninety-three ischemic strokes were observed. in covariate-adjusted cox proportional hazard models  a significant positive association between ischemic stroke and oahi was observed in men (p value for linear trend: p = 0.016). men in the highest oahi quartile (>19) had an adjusted hazard ratio of 2.86 (95% confidence interval  1.1-7.4). in the mild to moderate range (oahi  5-25)  each one-unit increase in oahi in men was estimated to increase stroke risk by 6% (95% confidence interval  2-10%). in women  stroke was not significantly associated with oahi quartiles  but increased risk was observed at an oahi greater than 25. conclusions the strong adjusted association between ischemic stroke and oahi in community-dwelling men with mild to moderate sleep apnea suggests that this is an appropriate target for future stroke prevention trials.
3479,nuclear hur accumulation through phosphorylation by cdk1.,a predominantly nuclear rna-binding protein  hur translocates to the cytoplasm in response to stress and proliferative signals  where it stabilizes or modulates the translation of target mrnas. here  we present evidence that hur phosphorylation at s202 by the g2-phase kinase cdk1 influences its subcellular distribution. hur was specifically phosphorylated in synchronous g2-phase cultures; its cytoplasmic levels increased by cdk1-inhibitory interventions and declined in response to cdk1-activating interventions. in keeping with the prominently cytoplasmic location of the nonphosphorylatable point mutant hur(s202a)  phospho-hur(s202) was shown to be predominantly nuclear using a novel anti-phospho-hur(s202) antibody. the enhanced cytoplasmic presence of unphosphorylated hur was linked to its decreased association with 14-3-3 and to its heightened binding to target mrnas. our findings suggest that cdk1 phosphorylates hur during g2  thereby helping to retain it in the nucleus in association with 14-3-3 and hindering its post-transcriptional function and anti-apoptotic influence.
3481,clinical features and treatment of peristomal pyoderma gangrenosum.,context peristomal pyoderma gangrenosum (ppg)  an unusual variant of pyoderma gangrenosum  has been reported almost exclusively in patients with inflammatory bowel disease (ibd) and is frequently misdiagnosed. objective to better characterize the clinical manifestations  diagnosis  and management of ppg. design  setting  and patients retrospective analysis of 7 patients with ppg observed in a university-affiliated community setting between 1988 and december 1999. main outcome measures clinical and histopathologic features  associated disorders  and microbiologic findings. results two patients had crohn disease  2 had ulcerative colitis  and 3 had abdominal cancer. five patients had at least 1 relapse of ppg after initial healing. although 3 of 4 patients with ibd had active bowel disease  a parallel course with ppg occurred in only 1 patient. both patients whose stoma was relocated developed an ulcer at the new site. effective therapies included topical superpotent corticosteroids; intralesional injection of triamcinolone acetonide at the ulcer margin; topical cromolyn sodium; oral dapsone  prednisone  cyclosporine  mycophenolate mofetil; and intravenous infliximab. conclusion our experiences demonstrate that although ppg has been most often reported in patients with ibd  it may occur in the absence of ibd. biopsy of the skin lesion is not diagnostic but excludes other causes. relocation of the stoma may be associated with a new ulceration and should be avoided. trauma to the skin of a predisposed patient may elicit the pustules or ulcerations associated with pathergy. jama. 2000;284:1546-1548.
3483,association of hypomethylation of line-1 repetitive element in blood leukocyte dna with an increased risk of hepatocellular carcinoma,global dna hypomethylation has been associated with increased risk for cancers of the colorectum  bladder  breast  head and neck  and testicular germ cells. the aim of this study was to examine whether global hypomethylation in blood leukocyte dna is associated with the risk of hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc). a total of 315 hcc cases and 356 age-  sex- and hbsag status-matched controls were included. global methylation in blood leukocyte dna was estimated by analyzing long interspersed element-1 (line-1) repeats using bisulfite-polymerase chain reaction (pcr) and pyrosequencing. we observed that the median methylation level in hcc cases (percentage of 5-methylcytosine (5mc)=77.7%) was significantly lower than that in controls (79.5% 5mc) (p=0.004  wilcoxon rank-sum test). the odds ratios (ors) of hcc for individuals in the third  second  and first (lowest) quartiles of line-1 methylation were 1.1 (95% confidence interval (ci) 0.7–1.8)  1.4 (95% ci 0.8–2.2)  and 2.6 (95% ci 1.7–4.1) (p for trend <0.001)  respectively  compared to individuals in the fourth (highest) quartile. a 1.9-fold (95% ci 1.4–2.6) increased risk of hcc was observed among individuals with line-1 methylation below the median compared to individuals with higher (>median) line-1 methylation. our results demonstrate for the first time that individuals with global hypomethylation measured in line-1 repeats in blood leukocyte dna have an increased risk for hcc. our data provide the evidence that global hypomethylation detected in the easily obtainable dna source of blood leukocytes may help identify individuals at risk of hcc.
3485,building-in biosafety for synthetic biology.,as the field of synthetic biology develops  real-world applications are moving from the realms of ideas and laboratory-confined research towards implementation. a pressing concern  particularly with microbial systems  is that self-replicating re-engineered cells may produce undesired consequences if they escape or overwhelm their intended environment. to address this biosafety issue  multiple mechanisms for constraining microbial replication and horizontal gene transfer have been proposed. these include the use of host-construct dependencies such as toxin-antitoxin pairs  conditional plasmid replication or the requirement for a specific metabolite to be present for cellular function. while refactoring of the existing genetic code or tailoring of orthogonal systems  e.g. xeno nucleic acids  offers future promise of more stringent 'firewalls' between natural and synthetic cells  here we focus on what can be achieved using existing technology. the state-of-the-art in designing for biosafety is summarized and general recommendations are made (e.g. short environmental retention times) for current synthetic biology projects to better isolate themselves against potentially negative impacts.
3487,angiopoietin-1 requires p190 rhogap to protect against vascular leakage in vivo.,angiopoietin-1 (ang-1)  a ligand of the endothelium-specific receptor tie-2  inhibits permeability in the mature vasculature  but the mechanism remains unknown. here we show that ang-1 signals rho family gtpases to organize the cytoskeleton into a junction-fortifying arrangement that enhances the permeability barrier function of the endothelium. ang-1 phosphorylates tie-2 and its downstream effector phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase. this induces activation of one endogenous gtpase  rac1  and inhibition of another  rhoa. loss of either part of this dual effect abrogates the cytoskeletal and anti-permeability actions of ang-1  suggesting that coordinated gtpase regulation is necessary for the vessel-sealing effects of ang-1. p190 rhogap  a gtpase regulatory protein  provides this coordinating function as it is phosphorylated by ang-1 treatment  requires rac1 activation  and is necessary for rhoa inhibition. ang-1 prevents the cytoskeletal and pro-permeability effects of endotoxin but requires p190 rhogap to do so. treatment with p190 rhogap small interfering rna completely abolishes the ability of ang-1 to rescue endotoxemia-induced pulmonary vascular leak and inflammation in mice. we conclude that ang-1 prevents vascular permeability by regulating the endothelial cytoskeleton through coordinated and opposite effects on the rho gtpases rac1 and rhoa. by linking rac1 activation and rhoa inhibition  p190 rhogap is critical to the protective effects of ang-1 against endotoxin. these results provide mechanistic evidence that targeting the endothelium through tie-2 may offer specific therapeutic strategies in life-threatening endotoxemic conditions such as sepsis and acute respiratory distress syndrome.
3489,frequency of intracranial aneurysms determined by magnetic resonance angiography in children (mean age 16) having operative or endovascular treatment of coarctation of the aorta (mean age 3).,coarctation of the aorta (cofa) has been associated with an increased risk of intracranial aneurysm (ia). this magnetic resonance angiography (mra) study investigates the prevalence of ias in 80 children treated in early life for cofa. mra was performed at mean age of 15.7 ± 7.1 years  and surgical or endovascular treatment for cofa occurred at a mean age of 2.6 ± 4.4 years. no ia was found. in contrast with earlier findings in adult patients with late treatment for cofa  this first systematic study of very early treated patients for cofa failed to confirm the association between cofa and ias. our results call the abnormal developmental relation between cofa and ias into question and suggest that modifiable risk factors like hypertension may be responsible for ia development in patients with cofa with adult diagnosis and treatment. in conclusion  our data suggest that early treatment of cofa can reduce the formation of ias in children so as to make mra screening less valuable in this young population.
3491,cd34+ hematopoietic stem-progenitor cell microrna expression and function: a circuit diagram of differentiation control.,micrornas (mirnas) are a recently identified class of epigenetic elements consisting of small noncoding rnas that bind to the 3' untranslated region of mrnas and down-regulate their translation to protein. mirnas play critical roles in many different cellular processes including metabolism  apoptosis  differentiation  and development. we found 33 mirnas expressed in cd34+ hematopoietic stem-progenitor cells (hspcs) from normal human bone marrow and mobilized human peripheral blood stem cell harvests. we then combined these data with human hspc mrna expression data and with mirna-mrna target predictions  into a previously undescribed mirna:mrna interaction database called the transcriptome interaction database. the in silico predictions from the transcriptome interaction database pointed to mirna control of hematopoietic differentiation through translational control of mrnas critical to hematopoiesis. from these predictions  we formulated a model for mirna control of stages of hematopoiesis in which many of the genes specifying hematopoietic differentiation are expressed by hspcs  but are held in check by mirnas until differentiation occurs. we validated mirna control of several of these target mrnas by demonstrating that their translation in fact is decreased by mirnas. finally  we chose mirna-155 for functional characterization in hematopoiesis  because we predicted that it would control both myelopoiesis and erythropoiesis. as predicted  mirna-155 transduction greatly reduced both myeloid and erythroid colony formation of normal human hspcs.
3493,staphylococcus aureus rnaiii and the endoribonuclease iii coordinately regulate spa gene expression.,staphylococcus aureus rnaiii is one of the largest regulatory rnas  which controls several virulence genes encoding exoproteins and cell-wall-associated proteins. one of the rnaiii effects is the repression of spa gene (coding for the surface protein a) expression. here  we show that spa repression occurs not only at the transcriptional level but also by rnaiii-mediated inhibition of translation and degradation of the stable spa mrna by the double-strand-specific endoribonuclease iii (rnase iii). the 3' end domain of rnaiii  partially complementary to the 5' part of spa mrna  efficiently anneals to spa mrna through an initial loop-loop interaction. although this annealing is sufficient to inhibit in vitro the formation of the translation initiation complex  the coordinated action of rnase iii is essential in vivo to degrade the mrna and irreversibly arrest translation. our results further suggest that rnase iii is recruited for targeting the paired rnas. these findings add further complexity to the expression of the s. aureus virulon.
3495,new colorimetric cytotoxicity assay for anticancer-drug screening.,we have developed a rapid  sensitive  and inexpensive method for measuring the cellular protein content of adherent and suspension cultures in 96-well microtiter plates. the method is suitable for ordinary laboratory purposes and for very large-scale applications  such as the national cancer institute's disease-oriented in vitro anticancer-drug discovery screen  which requires the use of several million culture wells per year. cultures fixed with trichloroacetic acid were stained for 30 minutes with 0.4% (wt/vol) sulforhodamine b (srb) dissolved in 1% acetic acid. unbound dye was removed by four washes with 1% acetic acid  and protein-bound dye was extracted with 10 mm unbuffered tris base [tris (hydroxymethyl)aminomethane] for determination of optical density in a computer-interfaced  96-well microtiter plate reader. the srb assay results were linear with the number of cells and with values for cellular protein measured by both the lowry and bradford assays at densities ranging from sparse subconfluence to multilayered supraconfluence. the signal-to-noise ratio at 564 nm was approximately 1.5 with 1 000 cells per well. the sensitivity of the srb assay compared favorably with sensitivities of several fluorescence assays and was superior to those of both the lowry and bradford assays and to those of 20 other visible dyes. the srb assay provides a colorimetric end point that is nondestructive  indefinitely stable  and visible to the naked eye. it provides a sensitive measure of drug-induced cytotoxicity  is useful in quantitating clonogenicity  and is well suited to high-volume  automated drug screening. srb fluoresces strongly with laser excitation at 488 nm and can be measured quantitatively at the single-cell level by static fluorescence cytometry.
3497,ticagrelor vs. clopidogrel in patients with acute coronary syndromes and diabetes: a substudy from the platelet inhibition and patient outcomes (plato) trial,aims patients with diabetes mellitus (dm) have high platelet reactivity and are at increased risk of ischaemic events and bleeding post-acute coronary syndromes (acs). in the platelet inhibition and patient outcomes (plato) trial  ticagrelor reduced the primary composite endpoint of cardiovascular death  myocardial infarction  or stroke  but with similar rates of major bleeding compared with clopidogrel. we aimed to investigate the outcome with ticagrelor vs. clopidogrel in patients with dm or poor glycaemic control. methods and results we analysed patients with pre-existing dm (n = 4662)  including 1036 patients on insulin  those without dm (n = 13 951)  and subgroups based on admission levels of haemoglobin a1c (hba1c; n = 15 150). in patients with dm  the reduction in the primary composite endpoint (hr: 0.88  95% ci: 0.76-1.03)  all-cause mortality (hr: 0.82  95% ci: 0.66-1.01)  and stent thrombosis (hr: 0.65  95% ci: 0.36-1.17) with no increase in major bleeding (hr: 0.95  95% ci: 0.81-1.12) with ticagrelor was consistent with the overall cohort and without significant diabetes status-by-treatment interactions. there was no heterogeneity between patients with or without ongoing insulin treatment. ticagrelor reduced the primary endpoint  all-cause mortality  and stent thrombosis in patients with hba1c above the median (hr: 0.80  95% ci: 0.70-0.91; hr: 0.78  95% ci: 0.65-0.93; and hr: 0.62  95% ci: 0.39-1.00  respectively) with similar bleeding rates (hr: 0.98  95% ci: 0.86-1.12). conclusion ticagrelor  when compared with clopidogrel  reduced ischaemic events in acs patients irrespective of diabetic status and glycaemic control  without an increase in major bleeding events.
3499,th2-mediated host protective immunity to intestinal nematode infections.,despite many years of study  relatively little is known about the effector mechanisms that operate against intestine-dwelling nematodes. most of the current understanding comes from studies of laboratory model systems in rodents. it is clear that when an intestinal helminth infection takes place the immune system generates a strong th2-mediated response  which regulates a variety of responses characteristic of helminth infections such as eosinophilia  intestinal mastocytosis and elevated ige production. the ability to modulate the host's immune response in vivo with cytokine-specific monoclonal antibodies and recombinant cytokines  together with the use of animals with disruption of key genes involved in the immune response  have provided powerful tools with which to dissect the potential effector mechanisms operating. in the absence of a t-cell compartment the host is unable to expel the parasite. if a th1-dominated response is generated  protective immunity is almost universally compromised. thus  it it would appear that some aspect of a th2-mediated response controls effector mechanisms. although it is clear that for some infections the mast cell appears to be involved in protection  probably through the generation of a non-specific inflammatory response  how these cells become activated remains unclear. data from infections in transgenic animals suggest that activation is not through the high-affinity receptor for ige. such studies also call into doubt the importance of conventional interactions between effector leucocytes and antibody. there is little evidence to support a protective role for eosinophilia in any system. new data also imply that  although interleukin 4 (il-4) is generally important (and can exert effects independent of an adaptive immune response)  it is not always sufficient to mediate protection; other th2 cytokines (e.g. il-13) may warrant closer investigation. it is apparent that a number of potential th2-controlled effector mechanisms (some of which may be particularly important at mucosal surfaces) remain to be explored. overall  it is likely that worm expulsion is the result of a combination of multiple mechanisms  some of which are more critical to some species of parasite than to others.
3501,the utility of cerebrospinal fluid analysis in patients with multiple sclerosis,diagnosis of multiple sclerosis (ms) requires the exclusion of other possible diagnoses. for this reason  the cerebrospinal fluid (csf) should be routinely analysed in patients with a first clinical event suggestive of ms. csf analysis is no longer mandatory for diagnosis of relapsing–remitting ms  as long as mri diagnostic criteria are fulfilled. however  caution is required in diagnosing ms in patients with negative mri findings or in the absence of csf analysis  as csf investigation is useful to eliminate other causes of disease. the detection of oligoclonal igg bands in csf has potential prognostic value and is helpful for clinical decision-making. in addition  csf analysis is important for research into the pathogenesis of ms. pathophysiological and neurodegenerative findings of inflammation in ms have been derived from csf investigations. novel csf biomarkers  though not yet validated  have been identified for diagnosis of ms and for ascertaining disease activity  prognosis and response to treatment  and are likely to increase in number with modern detection techniques. in this review  we summarize csf findings that shed light on the differential diagnosis of ms  and highlight the potential of novel biomarkers for this disease that could advance understanding of its pathophysiology.
3503,the danish prescription registries.,the extensive computerisation of danish pharmacies has permitted the establishment of two large prescription registries: the odense university pharmacoepidemiological database (oped) and the pharmacoepidemiological prescription database of north jutland (pdnj). the danish prescription registries content  coverage  completeness and the quality of the data are discussed in this article. furthermore  conditions for access to the data are presented. the two prescription registries cover a background population of approximately one million or 18% of the danish population. the populations covered by the registries are stable and representative of the danish population in general. the registries cover all reimbursed medicine at the level of the individual user. registration of a unique and permanent personal identifier enables the compilation of longitudinal drug histories and allows the linking of prescription data to other population-based danish registries. the degree of completeness of the danish prescription registries is excellent for reimbursed prescription drugs. a small number of comparison studies also indicate high validity of the register information. the danish prescription registries represent a useful new data source for pharmacoepidemiological studies.
3505,uncertainty in integrative structural modeling.,integrative structural modeling uses multiple types of input information and proceeds in four stages: (i) gathering information  (ii) designing model representation and converting information into a scoring function  (iii) sampling good-scoring models  and (iv) analyzing models and information. in the first stage  uncertainty originates from data that are sparse  noisy  ambiguous  or derived from heterogeneous samples. in the second stage  uncertainty can originate from a representation that is too coarse for the available information or a scoring function that does not accurately capture the information. in the third stage  the major source of uncertainty is insufficient sampling. in the fourth stage  clustering  cross-validation  and other methods are used to estimate the precision and accuracy of the models and information.
3507,feedback upregulation of her3 (erbb3) expression and activity attenuates antitumor effect of pi3k inhibitors.,we examined the effects of an inhibitor of pi3k  xl147  against human breast cancer cell lines with constitutive pi3k activation. treatment with xl147 resulted in dose-dependent inhibition of cell growth and levels of pakt and ps6  signal transducers in the pi3k/akt/tor pathway. in her2-overexpressing cells  inhibition of pi3k was followed by up-regulation of expression and phosphorylation of multiple receptor tyrosine kinases  including her3. knockdown of foxo1 and foxo3a transcription factors suppressed the induction of her3  insr  igf1r  and fgfr2 mrnas upon inhibition of pi3k. in her2(+) cells  knockdown of her3 with sirna or cotreatment with the her2 inhibitors trastuzumab or lapatinib enhanced xl147-induced cell death and inhibition of pakt and ps6. trastuzumab and lapatinib each synergized with xl147 for inhibition of pakt and growth of established bt474 xenografts. these data suggest that pi3k antagonists will inhibit akt and relieve suppression of receptor tyrosine kinase expression and their activity. relief of this feedback limits the sustained inhibition of the pi3k/akt pathway and attenuates the response to these agents. as a result  pi3k pathway inhibitors may have limited clinical activity overall if used as single agents. in patients with her2-overexpressing breast cancer  pi3k inhibitors should be used in combination with her2/her3 antagonists.
3509,efficacy and tolerability of amitriptylinoxide in the treatment of chronic tension-type headache: a multi-centre controlled study.,amitriptyline is the medication of first choice in the treatment of chronic tension-type headache. in 197 patients with chronic tension-type headache (87m and 110f with a mean age of 38 +/- 13 (18-68)) efficacy and tolerability of 60-90 mg amitriptylinoxide (ao) were compared with 50-75 mg amitriptyline (am) and placebo (pl) in a double-blind  parallel-group trial consisting of a four weeks' baseline phase and 12 weeks of treatment. the primary study endpoint was a reduction of at least 50% of the product of headache duration and frequency and a reduction of at least 50% in headache intensity. statistics used were fisher's exact test and analysis of variance. no significant difference emerged between ao  am and pl with respect to the primary study endpoint. treatment response occurred in 30.3% of the ao  22.4% of the am and 21.9% of the pl group. a reduction in headache duration and frequency of at least 50% was found in 39.4% on ao  in 25.4% on am and in 26.6% on pl (pao-pl = .1384  pam-pl = 1.000  pao-am = .0973). a reduction in headache intensity of at least 50% was found in 31.8% on ao  in 26.9% on am and in 26.6% on pl (pao-pl = .5657  pam-pl = 1.000  pao-am = .5715). trend analysis with respect to a significant reduction of headache intensity (p < 0.05) and the product of headache duration and frequency revealed a superior effect of ao.(abstract truncated at 250 words)
3511,lateral hypothalamic area glutamatergic neurons and their projections to the lateral habenula regulate feeding and reward.,unlabelled the overconsumption of calorically dense  highly palatable foods is thought to be a major contributor to the worldwide obesity epidemic; however  the precise neural circuits that directly regulate hedonic feeding remain elusive. here  we show that lateral hypothalamic area (lha) glutamatergic neurons  and their projections to the lateral habenula (lhb)  negatively regulate the consumption of palatable food. genetic ablation of lha glutamatergic neurons increased daily caloric intake and produced weight gain in mice that had access to a high-fat diet  while not altering general locomotor activity. anterior lha glutamatergic neurons send a functional glutamatergic projection to the lhb  a brain region involved in processing aversive stimuli and negative reward prediction outcomes. pathway-specific  optogenetic stimulation of glutamatergic lha-lhb circuit resulted in detectable glutamate-mediated epscs as well as gaba-mediated ipscs  although the net effect of neurotransmitter release was to increase the firing of most lhb neurons. in vivo optogenetic inhibition of lha-lhb glutamatergic fibers produced a real-time place preference  whereas optogenetic stimulation of lha-lhb glutamatergic fibers had the opposite effect. furthermore  optogenetic inhibition of lha-lhb glutamatergic fibers acutely increased the consumption of a palatable liquid caloric reward. collectively  these results demonstrate that lha glutamatergic neurons are well situated to bidirectionally regulate feeding and potentially other behavioral states via their functional circuit connectivity with the lhb and potentially other brain regions. significance statement in this study  we show that the genetic ablation of lha glutamatergic neurons enhances caloric intake. some of these lha glutamatergic neurons project to the lateral habenula  a brain area important for generating behavioral avoidance. optogenetic stimulation of this circuit has net excitatory effects on postsynaptic lhb neurons. this is the first study to characterize the functional connectivity and behavioral relevance of this circuit within the context of feeding and reward-related behavior.
3513,mtorc2 regulates amino acid metabolism in cancer by phosphorylation of the cystine-glutamate antiporter xct.,mutations in cancer reprogram amino acid metabolism to drive tumor growth  but the molecular mechanisms are not well understood. using an unbiased proteomic screen  we identified mtorc2 as a critical regulator of amino acid metabolism in cancer via phosphorylation of the cystine-glutamate antiporter xct. mtorc2 phosphorylates serine 26 at the cytosolic n terminus of xct  inhibiting its activity. genetic inhibition of mtorc2  or pharmacologic inhibition of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mtor) kinase  promotes glutamate secretion  cystine uptake  and incorporation into glutathione  linking growth factor receptor signaling with amino acid uptake and utilization. these results identify an unanticipated mechanism regulating amino acid metabolism in cancer  enabling tumor cells to adapt to changing environmental conditions.
3515,a role for interleukin-1β in determining the lineage fate of embryonic rat hippocampal neural precursor cells.,neurogenesis occurs in the hippocampus of the developing and adult brain due to the presence of multipotent stem cells and restricted precursor cells at different stages of differentiation. it has been proposed that they may be of potential benefit for use in cell transplantation approaches for neurodegenerative disorders and trauma. prolonged release of interleukin-1β (il-1β) from activated microglia has a deleterious effect on hippocampal neurons and is implicated in the impaired neurogenesis and cognitive dysfunction associated with aging  alzheimer's disease and depression. this study assessed the effect of il-1β on the proliferation and differentiation of embryonic rat hippocampal npcs in vitro. we show that il-1r1 is expressed on proliferating npcs and that il-1β treatment decreases cell proliferation and neurosphere growth. when npcs were differentiated in the presence of il-1β  a significant reduction in the percentages of newly-born neurons and post-mitotic neurons and a significant increase in the percentage of astrocytes was observed in these cultures. these effects were attenuated by il-1 receptor antagonist. these data reveal that il-1β exerts an anti-proliferative  anti-neurogenic and pro-gliogenic effect on embryonic hippocampal npcs  which is mediated by il-1r1. the present results emphasise the consequences of an inflammatory environment during npc development  and indicate that strategies to inhibit il-1β signalling may be necessary to facilitate effective cell transplantation approaches or in conditions where endogenous hippocampal neurogenesis is impaired.
3517,disruption of the immune-checkpoint vista gene imparts a proinflammatory phenotype with predisposition to the development of autoimmunity.,v domain-containing ig suppressor of t-cell activation (vista) is a negative checkpoint regulator that suppresses t cell-mediated immune responses. previous studies using a vista-neutralizing monoclonal antibody show that vista blockade enhances t-cell activation. the current study describes a comprehensive characterization of mice in which the gene for vista has been deleted. despite the apparent normal hematopoietic development in young mice  vista genetic deficiency leads to a gradual accumulation of spontaneously activated t cells  accompanied by the production of a spectrum of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines. enhanced t-cell responsiveness was also observed upon immunization with neoantigen. despite the presence of multiorgan chronic inflammation  aged vista-deficient mice did not develop systemic or organ-specific autoimmune disease. interbreeding of the vista-deficient mice with 2d2 t-cell receptor transgenic mice  which are predisposed to the development of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis  drastically enhanced disease incidence and intensity. disease development is correlated with the increase in the activation of encephalitogenic t cells in the periphery and enhanced infiltration into the cns. taken together  our data suggest that vista is a negative checkpoint regulator whose loss of function lowers the threshold for t-cell activation  allowing for an enhanced proinflammatory phenotype and an increase in the frequency and intensity of autoimmunity under susceptible conditions.
3519,neutralizing antibody responses in acute human immunodeficiency virus type 1 subtype c infection.,the study of the evolution and specificities of neutralizing antibodies during the course of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (hiv-1) infection may be important in the discovery of possible targets for vaccine design. in this study  we assessed the autologous and heterologous neutralization responses of 14 hiv-1 subtype c-infected individuals  using envelope clones obtained within the first 2 months postinfection. our data show that potent but relatively strain-specific neutralizing antibodies develop within 3 to 12 months of hiv-1 infection. the magnitude of this response was associated with shorter v1-to-v5 envelope lengths and fewer glycosylation sites  particularly in the v1-v2 region. anti-mper antibodies were detected in 4 of 14 individuals within a year of infection  while antibodies to cd4-induced (cd4i) epitopes developed to high titers in 12 participants  in most cases before the development of autologous neutralizing antibodies. however  neither anti-mper nor anti-cd4i antibody specificity conferred neutralization breadth. these data provide insights into the kinetics  potency  breadth  and epitope specificity of neutralizing antibody responses in acute hiv-1 subtype c infection.
3521,ghrelin secretion stimulated by {beta}1-adrenergic receptors in cultured ghrelinoma cells and in fasted mice.,ghrelin  an octanoylated peptide hormone produced in the stomach  rises dramatically in mouse plasma during chronic severe calorie deprivation  an event that is essential to maintain life. the mechanism for this increase is not understood. here  we study the control of ghrelin secretion in tissue culture cells derived from mice bearing ghrelinomas induced by a tissue-specific sv40 t-antigen transgene. we found that the ghrelin-secreting cells express high levels of mrna encoding beta(1)-adrenergic receptors. addition of norepinephrine or epinephrine to the culture medium stimulated ghrelin secretion  and this effect was blocked by atenolol  a selective beta(1)-adrenergic antagonist. when wt mice were treated with reserpine to deplete adrenergic neurotransmitters from sympathetic neurons  the fasting-induced increase in plasma ghrelin was blocked. inhibition was also seen following atenolol administration. we conclude that ghrelin secretion during fasting is induced by adrenergic agents released by sympathetic neurons and acting directly on beta(1) receptors on the ghrelin-secreting cells of the stomach.
3523,microrna-203 inhibits cellular proliferation and invasion by targeting bmi1 in non-small cell lung cancer.,micrornas are proposed to serve vital functions in the regulation of tumor progression and invasion. however  the expression levels of mir-203 in non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) and its clinical significance remain unknown. in the present study  the association between b-cell-specific moloney murine leukemia virus insertion site 1 (bmi1) and mir-203 was investigated. mir-203 was demonstrated to act as a tumor suppressor by regulating the expression of bmi1. mir-203 expression levels were downregulated in nsclc tissues while bmi1 expression was upregulated in nsclc tissues and cell lines. furthermore  downregulated bmi1 or enhanced mir-203 expression inhibited nsclc cell proliferation and invasion in vitro. in addition  a dual-luciferase reporter assay was performed  which identified bmi1 as a novel target of mir-203. in conclusion  the present study demonstrated that mir-203 functions as a tumor suppressor and is important in inhibiting the proliferation of nsclc cells through targeting bmi1. these findings indicate that mir-203 may be useful as a novel potential therapeutic target for nsclc.
3525,prc2 complexes with jarid2  mtf2  and esprc2p48 in es cells to modulate es cell pluripotency and somatic cell reprogramming.,polycomb repressive complex two (prc2) has been implicated in embryonic stem (es) cell pluripotency; however  the mechanistic roles of this complex are unclear. it was assumed that es cells contain prc2 with the same subunit composition as that identified in hela cells and drosophila embryos. here  we report that prc2 in mouse es cells contains at least three additional subunits: jarid2  mtf2  and a novel protein denoted esprc2p48. jarid2  mtf2  and esprc2p48 are highly expressed in mouse es cells compared to differentiated cells. importantly  knockdowns of jarid2  mtf2  or esprc2p48 alter the level of prc2-mediated h3k27 methylation and result in the expression of differentiation-associated genes in es cells. interestingly  expression of jarid2  mtf2  and esprc2p48 together  but not individually  enhances oct4/sox2/klf4-mediated reprogramming of mouse embryonic fibroblasts (mefs) into induced pluripotent stem cells  whereas knockdown or knockout of jarid2  mtf2  or esprc2p48 significantly inhibits reprogramming. jarid2  mtf2  and esprc2p48 modulate h3k27 methylation and facilitate repression of lineage-associated gene expression when transduced into mefs  and synergistically stimulate the histone methyltransferase activity of prc2 in vitro. therefore  these studies identify jarid2  mtf2  and esprc2p48 as important regulatory subunits of prc2 in es cells and reveal critical functions of these subunits in modulating prc2's activity and gene expression both in es cells and during somatic cell reprogramming.
3527,phosphorylation of the autophagy receptor optineurin restricts salmonella growth.,selective autophagy can be mediated via receptor molecules that link specific cargoes to the autophagosomal membranes decorated by ubiquitin-like microtubule-associated protein light chain 3 (lc3) modifiers. although several autophagy receptors have been identified  little is known about mechanisms controlling their functions in vivo. in this work  we found that phosphorylation of an autophagy receptor  optineurin  promoted selective autophagy of ubiquitin-coated cytosolic salmonella enterica. the protein kinase tank binding kinase 1 (tbk1) phosphorylated optineurin on serine-177  enhancing lc3 binding affinity and autophagic clearance of cytosolic salmonella. conversely  ubiquitin- or lc3-binding optineurin mutants and silencing of optineurin or tbk1 impaired salmonella autophagy  resulting in increased intracellular bacterial proliferation. we propose that phosphorylation of autophagy receptors might be a general mechanism for regulation of cargo-selective autophagy.
3529,accuracy of icd-9-cm codes for identifying cardiovascular and stroke risk factors.,objectives we sought to determine which icd-9-cm codes in medicare part a data identify cardiovascular and stroke risk factors. design and participants this was a cross-sectional study comparing icd-9-cm data to structured medical record review from 23 657 medicare beneficiaries aged 20 to 105 years who had atrial fibrillation. measurements quality improvement organizations used standardized abstraction instruments to determine the presence of 9 cardiovascular and stroke risk factors. using the chart abstractions as the gold standard  we assessed the accuracy of icd-9-cm codes to identify these risk factors. main results icd-9-cm codes for all risk factors had high specificity (>0.95) and low sensitivity (< or =0.76). the positive predictive values were greater than 0.95 for 5 common  chronic risk factors-coronary artery disease  stroke/transient ischemic attack  heart failure  diabetes  and hypertension. the sixth common risk factor  valvular heart disease  had a positive predictive value of 0.93. for all 6 common risk factors  negative predictive values ranged from 0.52 to 0.91. the rare risk factors-arterial peripheral embolus  intracranial hemorrhage  and deep venous thrombosis-had high negative predictive value (> or =0.98) but moderate positive predictive values (range  0.54-0.77) in this population. conclusions using icd-9-cm codes alone  heart failure  coronary artery disease  diabetes  hypertension  and stroke can be ruled in but not necessarily ruled out. where feasible  review of additional data (eg  physician notes or imaging studies) should be used to confirm the diagnosis of valvular disease  arterial peripheral embolus  intracranial hemorrhage  and deep venous thrombosis.
3531,valvular interstitial cells suppress calcification of valvular endothelial cells.,background calcific aortic valve disease (cavd) is the most common heart valve disease in the western world. we previously proposed that valvular endothelial cells (vecs) replenish injured adult valve leaflets via endothelial-to-mesenchymal transformation (endmt); however  whether endmt contributes to valvular calcification is unknown. we hypothesized that aortic vecs undergo osteogenic differentiation via an endmt process that can be inhibited by valvular interstitial cells (vics). approach and results vec clones underwent tgf-β1-mediated endmt  shown by significantly increased mrna expression of the endmt markers α-sma (5.3 ± 1.2)  mmp-2 (13.5 ± 0.6) and slug (12 ± 2.1) (p < 0.05)  (compared to unstimulated controls). to study the effects of vic on vec endmt  clonal populations of vics were derived from the same valve leaflets  placed in co-culture with vecs  and grown in control/tgf-β1 supplemented media. in the presence of vics  endmt was inhibited  shown by decreased mrna expression of α-sma (0.1 ± 0.5)  mmp-2 (0.1 ± 0.1)  and slug (0.2 ± 0.2) (p < 0.05). when cultured in osteogenic media  vecs demonstrated osteogenic changes confirmed by increase in mrna expression of osteocalcin (8.6 ± 1.3)  osteopontin (3.7 ± 0.3)  and runx2 (5.5 ± 1.5). the vic presence inhibited vec osteogenesis  demonstrated by decreased expression of osteocalcin (0.4 ± 0.1) and osteopontin (0.2 ± 0.1) (p < 0.05). time course analysis suggested that endmt precedes osteogenesis  shown by an initial increase of α-sma and mmp-2 (day 7)  followed by an increase of osteopontin and osteocalcin (day 14). conclusions the data indicate that endmt may precede vec osteogenesis. this study shows that vics inhibit vec endmt and osteogenesis  indicating the importance of vec-vic interactions in valve homeostasis.
3533,varenicline  an alpha4beta2 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor partial agonist  selectively decreases ethanol consumption and seeking.,alcohol dependence is a disease that impacts millions of individuals worldwide. there has been some progress with pharmacotherapy for alcohol-dependent individuals; however  there remains a critical need for the development of novel and additional therapeutic approaches. alcohol and nicotine are commonly abused together  and there is evidence that neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nachrs) play a role in both alcohol and nicotine dependence. varenicline  a partial agonist at the alpha4beta2 nachrs  reduces nicotine intake and was recently approved as a smoking cessation aid. we have investigated the role of varenicline in the modulation of ethanol consumption and seeking using three different animal models of drinking. we show that acute administration of varenicline  in doses reported to reduce nicotine reward  selectively reduced ethanol but not sucrose seeking using an operant self-administration drinking paradigm and also decreased voluntary ethanol but not water consumption in animals chronically exposed to ethanol for 2 months before varenicline treatment. furthermore  chronic varenicline administration decreased ethanol consumption  which did not result in a rebound increase in ethanol intake when the varenicline was no longer administered. the data suggest that the alpha4beta2 nachrs may play a role in ethanol-seeking behaviors in animals chronically exposed to ethanol. the selectivity of varenicline in decreasing ethanol consumption combined with its reported safety profile and mild side effects in humans suggest that varenicline may prove to be a treatment for alcohol dependence.
3535,a paediatric case of sideroblastic anaemia. ultrastructural studies of erythroblasts cultured from marrow bfu-e in a methylcellulose micromethod.,we examined the morphological and functional characteristics of erythroblasts derived from marrow erythroid progenitor cells grown in a methylcellulose microculture  which were taken from a female child with rare atypical sideroblastic anaemia (sa) partially responsive to pyridoxine. colony formation was within the normal range in three successive cultures (median values: 82.25 cfu-e and 16.4 bfu-e derived colonies/6.6 x 10(4) cells) compared to growth by normal cells (65-315 cfu-e and 9-40 bfu-e). we evaluated in vitro differentiation by biochemical microassay of a cytosol enzyme involved in the haem pathway: uroporphyrinogen i synthase (uros). the uros values in the erythroid colonies from sa marrow were at the lowere end of the normal range (median values: 6.7 +/- 0.3 and 14.4 +/- 3.8 pmol uroporphyrinogen/h in cfu-e and bfu-e-derived colonies respectively versus 17.4 +/- 7.3 and 25 +/- 7.2 pmol/h in cfu-e and bfu-e colonies from normal subjects. ultrastructural examination of the sa erythroblasts from non-cultured bone marrow or derived from cultured bfu-e revealed the characteristic deposition of iron in mitochondria around the nucleus of most cells (ringed sideroblasts). however  the majority of cultured cells had marked dyserythropoietic features  with a large number of bilobulated or trilobulated erythroblasts  multiple cytoplasmic vacuoles  numerous abnormalities of the nucleus  and excessive membrane material beneath the plasma membrane  all features difficult to observe in non-cultured marrows.
3537,no net renal extraction of homocysteine in fasting humans.,background the pathophysiological mechanism of hyperhomocysteinemia in chronic renal failure in humans is unknown. the loss of a putative renal homocysteine extraction in chronic renal failure has been hypothesized as significant homocysteine uptake has been demonstrated in the normal rat kidney. we studied homocysteine extraction in the normal human kidney. methods we measured plasma total (free and protein-bound) and free homocysteine (thcy and fhcy  respectively) in arterial and renal venous blood sampled from the aorta and right-side renal vein during cardiac catheterization in 20 fasting patients with normal renal function. renal homocysteine extraction was calculated as the arteriovenous difference divided by the arterial levels times 100%. results no significant renal extraction was demonstrated either for thcy: 0.9% (sd 5.8; 95% ci -1.8 to +3.6) or for fhcy: -0.2% (11.0; -5.4 to +4.9). conclusions we conclude that no significant net renal uptake of homocysteine occurs in fasting humans with normal renal function. the loss of such uptake  therefore  cannot cause hyperhomocysteinemia in patients with renal failure.
3539,tcr stimulation with modified anti-cd3 mab expands cd8+ t cell population and induces cd8+cd25+ tregs.,modified anti-cd3 mabs are emerging as a possible means of inducing immunologic tolerance in settings including transplantation and autoimmunity such as in type 1 diabetes. in a trial of a modified anti-cd3 mab [hokt3gamma1(ala-ala)] in patients with type 1 diabetes  we identified clinical responders by an increase in the number of peripheral blood cd8+ cells following treatment with the mab. here we show that the anti-cd3 mab caused activation of cd8+ t cells that was similar in vitro and in vivo and induced regulatory cd8+cd25+ t cells. these cells inhibited the responses of cd4+ cells to the mab itself and to antigen. the regulatory cd8+cd25+ cells were ctla4 and foxp3 and required contact for inhibition. foxp3 was also induced on cd8+ t cells in patients during mab treatment  which suggests a potential mechanism of the anti-cd3 mab immune modulatory effects involving induction of a subset of regulatory cd8+ t cells.
3541,emtricitabine-tenofovir concentrations and pre-exposure prophylaxis efficacy in men who have sex with men.,drug concentrations associated with protection from hiv-1 acquisition have not been determined. we evaluated drug concentrations among men who have sex with men in a substudy of the iprex trial (1). in this randomized placebo-controlled trial  daily oral doses of emtricitabine/tenofovir disoproxil fumarate were used as pre-exposure prophylaxis (prep) in men who have sex with men. drug was detected less frequently in blood plasma and in viable cryopreserved peripheral blood mononuclear cells (pbmcs) in hiv-infected cases at the visit when hiv was first discovered compared with controls at the matched time point of the study (8% versus 44%; p < 0.001) and in the 90 days before that visit (11% versus 51%; p < 0.001). an intracellular concentration of the active form of tenofovir  tenofovir-diphosphate (tfv-dp)  of 16 fmol per million pbmcs was associated with a 90% reduction in hiv acquisition relative to the placebo arm. directly observed dosing in a separate study  the strand trial  yielded tfv-dp concentrations that  when analyzed according to the iprex model  corresponded to an hiv-1 risk reduction of 76% for two doses per week  96% for four doses per week  and 99% for seven doses per week. prophylactic benefits were observed over a range of doses and drug concentrations  suggesting ways to optimize prep regimens for this population.
3543,failure of continuous venovenous hemofiltration to prevent death in paraquat poisoning.,paraquat poisoning is characterized by multiorgan failure and pulmonary fibrosis with respiratory failure. multiorgan failure with circulatory collapse is a major cause of early death within 3 days of paraquat ingestion. recent studies suggested that continuous venovenous hemofiltration (cvvh) had a role in the treatment of multiorgan failure by promoting hemodynamic stability. we therefore evaluated the effect of prophylactic cvvh in 80 patients with paraquat poisoning (august 1996 to february 1999). the amount ingested was 2.1 +/- 1.0 mouthfuls (as 20% concentrate). all patients were treated with hemoperfusion (hp; duration  6.4 +/- 3.0 hours) within 24 hours of ingestion and then randomly assigned to the hp-alone or hp-cvvh group. forty-four patients underwent hp only  and 36 patients underwent cvvh (duration  57.4 +/- 31.3 hours; ultrafiltration volume  40.2 +/- 4.8 l/d) after hp. although time to death after ingestion was significantly longer in the hp-cvvh than hp group (5.0 +/- 5.0 versus 2.5 +/- 2.1 days; p < 0.05)  there was no difference in mortality rates between the two groups (66.7% versus 63.6%; p = 0.82). in the hp group  early circulatory collapse was a major cause of death compared with the hp-cvvh group  in which late respiratory failure was a major cause of death. in conclusion  prophylactic cvvh after hp prevented early death caused by circulatory collapse and prolonged survival time. however  it could not prevent late death caused by respiratory failure and did not provide a survival benefit in acute paraquat poisoning.
3545,tmem27: a cleaved and shed plasma membrane protein that stimulates pancreatic beta cell proliferation.,the signals and molecular mechanisms that regulate the replication of terminally differentiated beta cells are unknown. here  we report the identification and characterization of transmembrane protein 27 (tmem27  collectrin) in pancreatic beta cells. expression of tmem27 is reduced in tcf1(-/-) mice and is increased in islets of mouse models with hypertrophy of the endocrine pancreas. tmem27 forms dimers and its extracellular domain is glycosylated  cleaved and shed from the plasma membrane of beta cells. this cleavage process is beta cell specific and does not occur in other cell types. overexpression of full-length tmem27  but not the truncated or soluble protein  leads to increased thymidine incorporation  whereas silencing of tmem27 using rnai results in a reduction of cell replication. furthermore  transgenic mice with increased expression of tmem27 in pancreatic beta cells exhibit increased beta cell mass. our results identify a pancreatic beta cell transmembrane protein that regulates cell growth of pancreatic islets.
3547,a diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging study of corpus callosum from adult patients with migraine complicated with depressive/anxious disorder.,objective the aim of this study was to investigate the possible microstructural abnormalities of the corpus callosum (cc) in adult patients with migraine without aura complicated with depressive/anxious disorder. background emotional disorders  especially depression and anxiety  are with relatively higher incidence in migraine population. however  the mechanism of migraine complicated with depressive/anxious disorder remains unclear. methods diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging was carried out in 12 adult patients with simple migraine (without aura and without depressive/anxious disorder) (s-m group)  12 adult patients with complicated migraine (without aura but complicated with depressive/anxious disorder) (co-m group)  and 12 age- and sex-matched healthy subjects (control group). fractional anisotropy (fa) and apparent diffusion coefficient were measured at genu  body  and splenium of the cc  respectively. results there were significant differences in fa values at all locations of the cc among the 3 groups. the fa values from both the sm and co-m groups were significantly lower than the control (p < .05 and p < .01  respectively). the fa values from co-m group were significantly lower than the sm group (p < .01). the apparent diffusion coefficient values of the above regions had no significant differences among these groups (p > .05). there were negative correlations between fa value of genu of the cc and disease course as well as fa value of genu and body of the cc and headache frequency (p < .05). negative correlations were also found between fa values at all locations of the cc and hamilton anxiety and hamilton depression scores (both p < .05). conclusions there might be an integrity change of neurofibrotic microstructures existing as a possible neuroanatomical basis in the cc of migraine patients complicated with depressive/anxious disorder.
3549,accumulation of hydroxyethyl starch in human and animal tissues: a systematic review,to systematically review clinical and preclinical data on hydroxyethyl starch (hes) tissue storage. medline (pubmed) was searched and abstracts were screened using defined criteria to identify articles containing original data on hes tissue accumulation. forty-eight studies were included: 37 human studies with a total of 635 patients and 11 animal studies. the most frequent indication for fluid infusion was surgery accounting for 282 patients (45.9 %). hes localization in skin was shown by 17 studies  in kidney by 12  in liver by 8  and in bone marrow by 5. additional sites of hes deposition were lymph nodes  spleen  lung  pancreas  intestine  muscle  trophoblast  and placental stroma. among major organs the highest measured tissue concentration of hes was in the kidney. hes uptake into intracellular vacuoles was observed by 30 min after infusion. storage was cumulative  increasing in proportion to dose  although in 15 % of patients storage and associated symptoms were demonstrated at the lowest cumulative doses (0.4 g kg−1). some hes deposits were extremely long-lasting  persisting for 8 years or more in skin and 10 years in kidney. pruritus associated with hes storage was described in 17 studies and renal dysfunction in ten studies. in one included randomized trial  hes infusion produced osmotic nephrosis-like lesions indicative of hes storage (p = 0.01) and also increased the need for renal replacement therapy (odds ratio  9.50; 95 % confidence interval  1.09–82.7; p = 0.02). the tissue distribution of hes was generally similar in animals and humans. tissue storage of hes is widespread  rapid  cumulative  frequently long-lasting  and potentially harmful.
3551,a mental health intervention for schoolchildren exposed to violence: a randomized controlled trial.,context no randomized controlled studies have been conducted to date on the effectiveness of psychological interventions for children with symptoms of posttraumatic stress disorder (ptsd) that has resulted from personally witnessing or being personally exposed to violence. objective to evaluate the effectiveness of a collaboratively designed school-based intervention for reducing children's symptoms of ptsd and depression that has resulted from exposure to violence. design a randomized controlled trial conducted during the 2001-2002 academic year. setting and participants sixth-grade students at 2 large middle schools in los angeles who reported exposure to violence and had clinical levels of symptoms of ptsd. intervention students were randomly assigned to a 10-session standardized cognitive-behavioral therapy (the cognitive-behavioral intervention for trauma in schools) early intervention group (n = 61) or to a wait-list delayed intervention comparison group (n = 65) conducted by trained school mental health clinicians. main outcome measures students were assessed before the intervention and 3 months after the intervention on measures assessing child-reported symptoms of ptsd (child ptsd symptom scale; range  0-51 points) and depression (child depression inventory; range  0-52 points)  parent-reported psychosocial dysfunction (pediatric symptom checklist; range  0-70 points)  and teacher-reported classroom problems using the teacher-child rating scale (acting out  shyness/anxiousness  and learning problems; range of subscales  6-30 points). results compared with the wait-list delayed intervention group (no intervention)  after 3 months of intervention students who were randomly assigned to the early intervention group had significantly lower scores on symptoms of ptsd (8.9 vs 15.5  adjusted mean difference  - 7.0; 95% confidence interval [ci]  - 10.8 to - 3.2)  depression (9.4 vs 12.7  adjusted mean difference  - 3.4; 95% ci  - 6.5 to - 0.4)  and psychosocial dysfunction (12.5 vs 16.5  adjusted mean difference  - 6.4; 95% ci  -10.4 to -2.3). adjusted mean differences between the 2 groups at 3 months did not show significant differences for teacher-reported classroom problems in acting out (-1.0; 95% ci  -2.5 to 0.5)  shyness/anxiousness (0.1; 95% ci  -1.5 to 1.7)  and learning (-1.1  95% ci  -2.9 to 0.8). at 6 months  after both groups had received the intervention  the differences between the 2 groups were not significantly different for symptoms of ptsd and depression; showed similar ratings for psychosocial function; and teachers did not report significant differences in classroom behaviors. conclusion a standardized 10-session cognitive-behavioral group intervention can significantly decrease symptoms of ptsd and depression in students who are exposed to violence and can be effectively delivered on school campuses by trained school-based mental health clinicians.
3553,innate host defense requires tfeb-mediated transcription of cytoprotective and antimicrobial genes.,animal host defense against infection requires the expression of defense genes at the right place and the right time. understanding such tight control of host defense requires the elucidation of the transcription factors involved. by using an unbiased approach in the model caenorhabditis elegans  we discovered that hlh-30 (known as tfeb in mammals) is a key transcription factor for host defense. hlh-30 was activated shortly after staphylococcus aureus infection  and drove the expression of close to 80% of the host response  including antimicrobial and autophagy genes that were essential for host tolerance of infection. tfeb was also rapidly activated in murine macrophages upon s. aureus infection and was required for proper transcriptional induction of several proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines. thus  our data suggest that tfeb is a previously unappreciated  evolutionarily ancient transcription factor in the host response to infection.
3555,the changes of antioxidant defense system caused by quercetin administration do not lead to dna damage and apoptosis in the spleen and bone marrow cells of rats.,quercetin may have the opposite effect  namely anti- as well as pro-oxidant. the aim of this study was to assess the results of quercetin anti- and/or pro-oxidant activity in the bone marrow and spleen cells of rats. the experimental rats were treated daily  with quercetin in a dose of 8 or 80mg/kg b.w. by gavage for 40 days. the intracellular redox state in cells were assessed by measuring the ferric ion reducing antioxidant power (frap) level and malonodialdehyde concentration. ho-1 mrna expression was examined with real-time pcr. the extent of dna damage was determined by the alkaline-labile comet assay. a potential pro-apoptotic quercetin action was determined using the fitc-annexin v kit. the quercetin and isorhamnetin concentrations in serum were analyzed by hplc-ecd. mda concentration and frap values  were significantly decreased in the spleen and bone marrow cells of rats treated with quercetin  in a dose of 80mg/kg b.w. in comparison with the control rats; no significant changes were observed after quercetin was administered in a dose ten times as low. treatment with quercetin dose-dependently upregulated the expression of ho-1 mrna in the bone marrow cells. quercetin administration to the rats did not induce either dna damage or apoptosis in the examined cells. the results of our study prove that changes in the antioxidant state  caused by quercetin  do not lead to dna damage or exert any pro-apoptotic activity in vivo.
3557,clinicopathological and prognostic significance of bmi-1 expression in human cervical cancer.,objective to investigate the clinical significance of bmi-1 expression as a prognostic marker for cervical cancer. design. retrospectively collected data from a population-based cohort. setting jiangsu province hospital. population. eighty-eight women diagnosed with cervical carcinoma between 2000 and 2003. methods rt-pcr assay was performed to determine bmi-1 mrna expression in 18 cervical cancer and noncancerous tissue samples and immunohistochemistry to detect bmi-1 protein expression in 88 cervical cancer samples. the correlation between bmi-1 expression and clinicopathological factors was analyzed. additionally  statistical analyses were applied to test for prognostic associations. rna interference was used to downregulate bmi-1 expression in a cervical cancer cell line (hela). in vitro cytotoxicity was measured by the methylthiazoletetrazolium and colony formation assays. effects of bmi-1 inhibition on in vivo growth of cancer cells was detected by the tumorigenicity assay. cell cycle distribution and cell apoptosis were measured by flow cytometry. main outcome measures the levels of bmi-1 mrna and protein expression in tissues were evaluated by rt-pcr and western blot assays. results the level of bmi-1 mrna expression in cervical cancer tissues was significantly higher than that in corresponding noncancerous tissues. high bmi-1 expression was significantly correlated with poor tumor differentiation  advanced international federation of gynecology and obstetrics stage and positive lymph node metastasis. patients with high bmi-1 expression showed shorter overall survival than those with low expression. univariate and multivariate analyses showed that high bmi-1 expression was an independent prognostic factor. conclusions rna interference-mediated bmi-1 inhibition could inhibit in vitro and in vivo growth  enhance apoptosis and induce cell cycle arrest of cervical cancer cells. bmi-1 might be an independent prognostic marker for cervical cancer patients.
3559,a conserved histidine in the rna sensor rig-i controls immune tolerance to n1-2'o-methylated self rna.,the cytosolic helicase retinoic acid-inducible gene-i (rig-i) initiates immune responses to most rna viruses by detecting viral 5'-triphosphorylated rna (ppprna). although endogenous mrna is also 5'-triphosphorylated  backbone modifications and the 5'-ppp-linked methylguanosine ((m7)g) cap prevent immunorecognition. here we show that the methylation status of endogenous capped mrna at the 5'-terminal nucleotide (n1) was crucial to prevent rig-i activation. moreover  we identified a single conserved amino acid (h830) in the rig-i rna binding pocket as the mediator of steric exclusion of n1-2'o-methylated rna. h830a alteration (rig-i(h830a)) restored binding of n1-2'o-methylated ppprna. consequently  endogenous mrna activated the rig-i(h830a) mutant but not wild-type rig-i. similarly  knockdown of the endogenous n1-2'o-methyltransferase led to considerable rig-i stimulation in the absence of exogenous stimuli. studies involving yellow-fever-virus-encoded 2'o-methyltransferase and rig-i(h830a) revealed that viruses exploit this mechanism to escape rig-i. our data reveal a new role for cap n1-2'o-methylation in rig-i tolerance of self-rna.
3561,large scale replication and meta-analysis of variants on chromosome 4q25 associated with atrial fibrillation.,aims a recent genome-wide association study identified a haplotype block on chromosome 4q25 associated with atrial fibrillation (af). we sought to replicate this association in four independent cohorts. methods and results the framingham heart study and rotterdam study are community-based longitudinal studies. the vanderbilt af registry and german af network (afnet) are case-control studies. participants with af (n = 3508) were more likely to be male and were older than referent participants (n = 12 173; framingham 82 +/- 10 vs. 71 +/- 13 years; rotterdam 73 +/- 8 vs. 69 +/- 9 years; vanderbilt 54 +/- 14 vs. 57 +/- 14 years; afnet 62 +/- 12 vs. 49 +/- 14 years). single nucleotide polymorphism (snp) rs2200733 was associated with af in all four cohorts  with odds ratios (ors) ranging from 1.37 in rotterdam [95% confidence interval (ci) 1.18-1.59; p = 3.1 x 10(-5)] to 2.52 in afnet (95% ci 2.22-2.8; p = 1.8 x 10(-49)). there also was a significant association between af and rs10033464 in framingham (or 1.34; 95% ci 1.03-1.75; p = 0.031) and afnet (or 1.30; 95% ci 1.13-1.51; p = 0.0002)  but not vanderbilt (or 1.16; 95% ci 0.86-1.56; p = 0.33). a meta-analysis of the current and prior af studies revealed an or of 1.90 (95% ci 1.60-2.26; p = 3.3 x 10(-13)) for rs2200733 and of 1.36 (95% ci 1.26-1.47; p = 6.7 x 10(-15)) for rs10033464. conclusion the non-coding snps rs2200733 and rs10033464 are strongly associated with af in four cohorts of european descent. these results confirm the significant relations between af and intergenic variants on chromosome 4.
3563,reduced expression of oestrogen receptor beta in invasive breast cancer and its re-expression using dna methyl transferase inhibitors in a cell line model.,to gain insights into the possible role of oestrogen receptor (er) beta in breast carcinogenesis  immunohistochemical analysis of er beta was performed on 512 breast specimens encompassing normal (n = 138)  pure ductal carcinoma in situ (n = 16)  invasive cancers (n = 319)  lymph node metastases (n = 31)  and recurrences (n = 8). real-time polymerase chain reaction (pcr) was used to investigate the methylation status of the er beta gene in the er beta negative breast cancer cell lines skbr3 and mda-mb-435. a gradual reduction in  but not a complete loss of  er beta expression was observed during the transition from normal and pre-invasive lesions to invasive cancers  where er beta was lost in 21% of cases. this was more pronounced in invasive ductal than in lobular carcinomas  a significantly higher proportion of which were er beta-positive (74% compared with 91%  respectively  p = 0.0004). examination of paired primary cancers with their axillary lymph node metastases showed that if er beta was present in the primary tumour  it persisted in the metastasis. treatment of er beta-negative cell lines with dna methyl transferase inhibitors restored er beta expression  providing experimental evidence that silencing of er beta in breast carcinomas could be due to promoter hypermethylation. these results suggest that loss of er beta expression is one of the hallmarks of breast carcinogenesis and that it may be a reversible process involving methylation.
3565,dietary quality among men and women in 187 countries in 1990 and 2010: a systematic assessment,background healthy dietary patterns are a global priority to reduce non-communicable diseases. yet neither worldwide patterns of diets nor their trends with time are well established. we aimed to characterise global changes (or trends) in dietary patterns nationally and regionally and to assess heterogeneity by age  sex  national income  and type of dietary pattern. methods in this systematic assessment  we evaluated global consumption of key dietary items (foods and nutrients) by region  nation  age  and sex in 1990 and 2010. consumption data were evaluated from 325 surveys (71·7% nationally representative) covering 88·7% of the global adult population. two types of dietary pattern were assessed: one reflecting greater consumption of ten healthy dietary items and the other based on lesser consumption of seven unhealthy dietary items. the mean intakes of each dietary factor were divided into quintiles  and each quintile was assigned an ordinal score  with higher scores being equivalent to healthier diets (range 0-100). the dietary patterns were assessed by hierarchical linear regression including country  age  sex  national income  and time as exploratory variables. findings from 1990 to 2010  diets based on healthy items improved globally (by 2·2 points  95% uncertainty interval (ui) 0·9 to 3·5)  whereas diets based on unhealthy items worsened (-2·5  -3·3 to -1·7). in 2010  the global mean scores were 44·0 (sd 10·5) for the healthy pattern and 52·1 (18·6) for the unhealthy pattern  with weak intercorrelation (r=-0·08) between countries. on average  better diets were seen in older adults compared with younger adults  and in women compared with men (p<0·0001 each). compared with low-income nations  high-income nations had better diets based on healthy items (+2·5 points  95% ui 0·3 to 4·1)  but substantially poorer diets based on unhealthy items (-33·0  -37·8 to -28·3). diets and their trends were very heterogeneous across the world regions. for example  both types of dietary patterns improved in high-income countries  but worsened in some low-income countries in africa and asia. middle-income countries showed the largest improvement in dietary patterns based on healthy items  but the largest deterioration in dietary patterns based on unhealthy items. interpretation consumption of healthy items improved  while consumption of unhealthy items worsened across the world  with heterogeneity across regions and countries. these global data provide the best estimates to date of nutrition transitions across the world and inform policies and priorities for reducing the health and economic burdens of poor diet quality. funding the bill & melinda gates foundation and medical research council.
3567,the pain catastrophizing scale: further psychometric evaluation with adult samples,previous studies with undergraduates have provided support for the reliability and oblique three-factor structure of a new scale  the pain catastrophizing scale (pcs). we examined the reliability and validity of the pcs in adult community and pain outpatient samples. the pcs showed a high internal consistency in both groups. using data from the community sample  confirmatory factor analyses showed that the pcs taps a single construct characterized by three related dimensions. gender differences were obtained on the pcs total score in the community and the outpatient samples. the analyses also showed significant differences between the community and the outpatient samples on the pcs total and subscales. overall  the results showed strong evidence of criterion-related  concurrent  and discriminant validity for the pcs in the community sample. limitations of the present study are discussed.
3569,macrophage diversity enhances tumor progression and metastasis,there is persuasive clinical and experimental evidence that macrophages promote cancer initiation and malignant progression. during tumor initiation  they create an inflammatory environment that is mutagenic and promotes growth. as tumors progress to malignancy  macrophages stimulate angiogenesis  enhance tumor cell migration and invasion  and suppress antitumor immunity. at metastatic sites  macrophages prepare the target tissue for arrival of tumor cells  and then a different subpopulation of macrophages promotes tumor cell extravasation  survival  and subsequent growth. specialized subpopulations of macrophages may represent important new therapeutic targets.
3571,pten regulates pi(3 4)p2 signaling downstream of class i pi3k,the pi3k signaling pathway regulates cell growth and movement and is heavily mutated in cancer. class i pi3ks synthesize the lipid messenger pi(3 4 5)p3. pi(3 4 5)p3 can be dephosphorylated by 3- or 5-phosphatases  the latter producing pi(3 4)p2. the pten tumor suppressor is thought to function primarily as a pi(3 4 5)p3 3-phosphatase  limiting activation of this pathway. here we show that pten also functions as a pi(3 4)p2 3-phosphatase  both in vitro and in vivo. pten is a major pi(3 4)p2 phosphatase in mcf10a cytosol  and loss of pten and inpp4b  a known pi(3 4)p2 4-phosphatase  leads to synergistic accumulation of pi(3 4)p2  which correlated with increased invadopodia in epidermal growth factor (egf)-stimulated cells. pten deletion increased pi(3 4)p2 levels in a mouse model of prostate cancer  and it inversely correlated with pi(3 4)p2 levels across several egf-stimulated prostate and breast cancer lines. these results point to a role for pi(3 4)p2 in the phenotype caused by loss-of-function mutations or deletions in pten.
3573,n terminus of swr1 binds to histone h2az and provides a platform for subunit assembly in the chromatin remodeling complex.,variant histone h2az-containing nucleosomes are involved in the regulation of gene expression. in saccharomyces cerevisiae  chromatin deposition of histone h2az is mediated by the fourteen-subunit swr1 complex  which catalyzes atp-dependent exchange of nucleosomal histone h2a for h2az. previous work defined the role of seven swr1 subunits (swr1 atpase  swc2  swc3  arp6  swc5  yaf9  and swc6) in maintaining complex integrity and h2az histone replacement activity. here we examined the function of three additional swr1 subunits  bromodomain containing bdf1  actin-related protein arp4 and swc7  by analyzing affinity-purified mutant swr1 complexes. we observed that depletion of arp4 (arp4-td) substantially impaired the association of bdf1  yaf9  and swc4. in contrast  loss of either bdf1 or swc7 had minimal effects on overall complex integrity. furthermore  the basic h2az histone replacement activity of swr1 in vitro required arp4  but not bdf1 or swc7. thus  three out of fourteen swr1 subunits  bdf1  swc7  and previously noted swc3  appear to have roles auxiliary to the basic histone replacement activity. the n-terminal region of the swr1 atpase subunit is necessary and sufficient to direct association of bdf1 and swc7  as well as arp4  act1  yaf9 and swc4. this same region contains an additional h2az-h2b specific binding site  distinct from the previously identified swc2 subunit. these findings suggest that one swr1 enzyme might be capable of binding two h2az-h2b dimers  and provide further insight on the hierarchy and interdependency of molecular interactions within the swr1 complex.
3575,integration of mental health into primary healthcare in low-income countries: avoiding medicalization.,since 2008 the world health organization (who)  through its mental health gap action programme  has attempted to revitalize efforts to integrate mental health into non-specialized (e.g. primary) healthcare. while this has led to renewed interest in this potential method of mental health service delivery  it has also prompted criticism. some concerns raised are that it would contribute to the medicalization of social and psychological problems  and narrowly focus on primary care without sufficient attention given to strengthening other levels of the healthcare system  notably community-based care and care on district levels. this paper discusses seven elements that may be critical to preventing inadvertently contributing to increasing a narrow biomedical approach to mental healthcare when integrating mental health into non-specialized healthcare: (1) using task shifting approaches within a system of stepped care  (2) ensuring primary mental healthcare also includes brief psychotherapeutic interventions  (3) promote community-based recovery-oriented interventions for people with disabling chronic mental disorders  (4) conceptualizing training as a continuous process of strengthening clinical competencies through supervision  (5) engaging communities as partners in psychosocial interventions  (6) embedding shifts to primary mental healthcare within wider health policy reforms  and (7) promoting inter-sectoral approaches to address social determinants of mental health.
3577,pulmonologist involvement  stage-specific treatment  and survival in adults with non-small cell lung cancer and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.,rationale up to 80% of patients with lung cancer have comorbid chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd). many of them are poor candidates for stage-specific lung cancer treatment due to diminished lung function and poor functional status  and many forego treatment. the negative effect of copd may be moderated by pulmonologist-guided management. objectives this study examined the association between pulmonologist management and the probability of receiving the recommended stage-specific treatment modality and overall survival among patients with non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc) with preexisting copd. methods early- and advanced-stage nsclc cases diagnosed between 2002 and 2005 with a prior copd diagnosis (3-24 months before nsclc diagnosis) were identified in surveillance  epidemiology  and end results tumor registry data linked to medicare claims. study outcomes included receipt of recommended stage-specific treatment (surgical resection for early-stage nsclc and chemotherapy for advanced-stage nsclc [advnsclc]) and overall survival. pulmonologist management was considered present if one or more evaluation and management visit claims with pulmonologist specialty were observed within 6 months after nsclc diagnosis. stage-specific multivariate logistic regression tested association between pulmonologist management and treatment received. cox proportional hazard models examined the independent association between pulmonologist care and mortality. two-stage residual inclusion instrumental variable (2sri-iv) analyses tested and adjusted for potential confounding based on unobserved factors or measurement error. measurements and main results the cohorts included 5 488 patients with early-stage nsclc and 6 426 patients with advnsclc disease with preexisting copd. pulmonologist management was recorded for 54.9% of patients with early stage nsclc and 35.7% of patients with advnsclc. of those patients with pulmonologist involvement  58.5% of patients with early nsclc received surgical resection  and 43.6% of patients with advnsclc received chemotherapy. pulmonologist management post nsclc diagnosis was associated with increased surgical resection rates (odds ratio  1.26; 95% confidence interval  1.11-1.45) for early nsclc and increased chemotherapy rates (odds ratio  1.88; 95% confidence interval  1.67-2.10) for advnsclc. pulmonologist management was also associated with reduced mortality risk for patients with early-stage nsclc but not advnsclc. conclusions pulmonologist management had a positive association with rates of stage-specific treatment in both groups and overall survival in early-stage nsclc. these results provide preliminary support for the recently published guidelines emphasizing the role of pulmonologists in lung cancer management.
3579,lethal autoimmune myocarditis in interferon-gamma receptor-deficient mice: enhanced disease severity by impaired inducible nitric oxide synthase induction.,background interferon-gamma (ifn-gamma) is an essential cytokine in the regulation of inflammatory responses in autoimmune diseases. little is known about its role in inflammatory heart disease. methods and results we showed that ifn-gamma receptor-deficient mice (ifn-gammar(-/-)) on a balb/c background immunized with a peptide derived from cardiac alpha-myosin heavy chain develop severe myocarditis with high mortality. although myocarditis subsided in wild-type mice after 3 weeks  ifn-gammar(-/-) mice showed persistent disease. the persistent inflammation was accompanied by vigorous in vitro cd4 t-cell responses and impaired inducible nitric oxide synthase expression  together with evidence of impaired nitric oxide production in ifn-gammar(-/-) hearts. treatment of wild-type mice with the nitric oxide synthetase inhibitor n:-nitro-l-arginine-methyl-ester enhanced in vitro cd4 t-cell proliferation and prevented healing of myocarditis. conclusions our data provide evidence that ifn-gamma protects mice from lethal autoimmune myocarditis by inducing the expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase followed by the downregulation of t-cell responses.
3581,long-term  nightly benzodiazepine treatment of injurious parasomnias and other disorders of disrupted nocturnal sleep in 170 adults.,purpose to assess the efficacy  dose stability  safety  and abuse potential of long-term  nightly benzodiazepine treatment of chronic disorders of disrupted nocturnal sleep. patients and methods during a 12-year period  one author evaluated and treated 170 adult referrals for > or = 6 months with nightly benzodiazepine therapy for longstanding  sleep-disruptive disorders: injurious sleepwalking and sleep terrors (69); rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder (52); chronic  severe insomnia (25); and restless legs syndrome/periodic limb movement disorder (24). results complete/substantial control of the sleep disorders was achieved by 146 patients (86%); 8% had adverse effects requiring medication changes; 2% had relapses of alcohol or chemical abuse requiring hospitalization; another 2% at times misused their medications. a total of 136 patients received clonazepam nightly for a mean 3.5 (+/- 2.4) years  with no significant difference in inital versus final mean dose: 0.77 mg (+/- 0.46) versus 1.10 mg (+/- 0.96). similar results were obtained with chronic alprazolam treatment and with other benzodiazepine treatments. conclusion long-term  nightly benzodiazepine treatment of injurious parasomnias and other disorders of disrupted nocturnal sleep resulted in sustained efficacy in most cases  with low risk of dosage tolerance  adverse effects  or abuse. data from this study on the treatment of chronic  severe insomnia (a small subset of all insomnia) are not generalizable to the typical insomnia patient.
3583,orai1/cracm1 overexpression suppresses cell proliferation via attenuation of the store-operated calcium influx-mediated signalling pathway in a549 lung cancer cells.,background orai1/cracm1 is a principal component of the store-operated calcium channels. store-operated calcium influx is highly correlated with inflammatory reactions  immunological regulation  and cell proliferation. epidermal growth factor (egf)  which plays an important role in the regulation of cell proliferation  can activate store-operated calcium channels. however  the consequences of orai1/cracm1 overexpression in egf-mediated lung cancer cells growth are not known. methods to investigate the role of orai1/cracm1 in egf-mediated lung cancer cell proliferation  orai1/cracm1 plasmids were transfected into cells by lipofection. a cell proliferation assay  immunofluorescence staining  flow cytometry  and real-time polymerase chain reaction were employed to monitor cell proliferation. the calcium influx signals were investigated using a fluorescent-based calcium assay. results transfection of orai1/cracm1 plasmids resulted in the inhibition of egf-mediated cell proliferation. erk1/2 and akt phosphorylation were inhibited by orai1/cracm1 overexpression. expression of the cell cycle modulator p21 was induced in the orai1/cracm1-overexpressing cells  whereas the expression of cyclin d3 was reduced. flow cytometry revealed that overexpression of orai1/cracm1 resulted in g0/g1 cell cycle arrest. importantly  orai1/cracm1 overexpression significantly attenuated egf-mediated store-operated calcium influx. in addition  application of 2-apb  a store-operated calcium channel inhibitor  resulted in the inhibition of egf-mediated cancer cell proliferation. conclusions we conclude that orai1/cracm1 overexpression attenuates store-operated ca(2+) influx that in turn blocks egf-mediated proliferative signaling and drives cell cycle arrest.
3585,telomeres and telomerase: more than the end of the line,early studies of telomerase suggested that telomeres are maintained by an elegant but relatively simple and highly conserved mechanism of telomerase-mediated replication. as we learn more  it has become clear that the mechanism is elegant but not as simple as first thought. it is also evident that  although many species use similar  sometimes identical  dna sequences for telomeres  these species express their own individuality in the way they regulate these sequences and  perhaps  in the additional tasks that they have imposed on their telomeric dna. the striking similarities between telomeres in different species have revealed much about chromosome ends; the differences are proving to be equally informative. in addition to the differences between species that use telomerase  there are also a few exceptional organisms with atypical telomeres for which no telomerase activity has been detected. this review addresses recent studies  the insights they offer  and  perhaps more importantly  the questions they raise.
3587,interleukin 18 function in atherosclerosis is mediated by the interleukin 18 receptor and the na-cl co-transporter,interleukin-18 (il18) participates in atherogenesis through several putative mechanisms. interruption of il18 action reduces atherosclerosis in mice. here  we show that absence of the il18 receptor (il18r) does not affect atherosclerosis in apolipoprotein e–deficient (apoe−/−) mice  nor does it affect il18 cell surface binding to or signaling in endothelial cells. as identified initially by co-immunoprecipitation with il18  we found that il18 interacts with the na-cl co-transporter (ncc; also known as slc12a3)  a 12-transmembrane-domain ion transporter protein preferentially expressed in the kidney. ncc is expressed in atherosclerotic lesions  where it colocalizes with il18r. in apoe−/− mice  combined deficiency of il18r and ncc  but not single deficiency of either protein  protects mice from atherosclerosis. peritoneal macrophages from apoe−/− mice or from apoe−/− mice lacking il18r or ncc show il18 binding and induction of cell signaling and cytokine and chemokine expression  but macrophages from apoe−/− mice with combined deficiency of il18r and ncc have a blunted response. an interaction between ncc and il18r on macrophages was detected by co-immunoprecipitation. il18 binds to the cell surface of ncc-transfected cos-7 cells  which do not express il18r  and induces cell signaling and cytokine expression. this study identifies ncc as an il18-binding protein that collaborates with il18r in cell signaling  inflammatory molecule expression  and experimental atherogenesis.
3589,blood pressure  salivary cortisol  and inflammatory cytokine outcomes in senior female cancer survivors enrolled in a tai chi chih randomized controlled trial,older cancer survivors are a vulnerable population due to an increased risk for chronic diseases (e.g.  cardiovascular disease) compounded with treatment late-effects and declines in physical functioning. therefore  interventions that reduce chronic disease risk factors (i.e.  blood pressure  chronic inflammation  and cortisol) are important in this population. tai chi chih (tcc) is a mind-body exercise associated with reductions in chronic disease risk factors  but has not been examined with older cancer survivors. in a feasibility randomized controlled trial of tcc  we examined secondary outcomes of blood pressure  salivary cortisol  and inflammatory cytokines (interleukin (il)-6  il-12  tumor necrosis factor-α  il-10  il-4) due to their implications in chronic diseases. sixty-three senior female cancer survivors (m age = 67 years  sd = 7.15) with physical functioning limitations (sf-12 physical functioning ≤80 or role-physical ≤72) were randomized to 12-weeks (60-min  three times a week) of tcc or health education control (hec) classes. resting blood pressure  1-day salivary cortisol samples  and fasting plasma samples for cytokine multiplex assays were collected at baseline and 1-week post-intervention. controlling for baseline values  the tcc group had significantly lower systolic blood pressure (sbp  p = 0.002) and cortisol area-under-curve (auc  p = 0.02) at post-intervention than the hec group. there was no intervention effect on inflammatory cytokines (p’s > 0.05). this tcc feasibility trial was associated with significant reductions in sbp and cortisol auc in senior female cancer survivors. larger  definitive trials are needed to confirm these findings. senior survivors’ have an increased risk for chronic diseases; however  tcc interventions may help reduce associated risk factors.
3591,new pathologic classification of lung cancer: relevance for clinical practice and clinical trials.,we summarize significant changes in pathologic classification of lung cancer resulting from the 2011 international association for the study of lung cancer/american thoracic society/european respiratory society (iaslc/ats/ers) lung adenocarcinoma classification. the classification was developed by an international core panel of experts representing iaslc  ats  and ers with oncologists/pulmonologists  pathologists  radiologists  molecular biologists  and thoracic surgeons. because 70% of patients with lung cancer present with advanced stages  a new approach to small biopsies and cytology with specific terminology and criteria focused on the need for distinguishing squamous cell carcinoma from adenocarcinoma and on molecular testing for egfr mutations and alk rearrangement. tumors previously classified as non-small-cell carcinoma  not otherwise specified  because of the lack of clear squamous or adenocarcinoma morphology should be classified further by using a limited immunohistochemical workup to preserve tissue for molecular testing. the terms "bronchioloalveolar carcinoma" and "mixed subtype adenocarcinoma" have been discontinued. for resected adenocarcinomas  new concepts of adenocarcinoma in situ and minimally invasive adenocarcinoma define patients who  if they undergo complete resection  will have 100% disease-free survival. invasive adenocarcinomas are now classified by predominant pattern after using comprehensive histologic subtyping with lepidic  acinar  papillary  and solid patterns; micropapillary is added as a new histologic subtype with poor prognosis. former mucinous bronchioloalveolar carcinomas are now called "invasive mucinous adenocarcinoma. " because the lung cancer field is now rapidly evolving with new advances occurring on a frequent basis  particularly in the molecular arena  this classification provides a much needed standard for pathologic diagnosis not only for patient care but also for clinical trials and tnm classification.
3593,cardiopulmonary exercise testing variables reflect the degree of diastolic dysfunction in patients with heart failure-normal ejection fraction.,purpose previous investigations have reported a relationship between variables obtained from echocardiography with tissue doppler imaging (tdi) and cardiopulmonary exercise testing (cpx) in systolic heart failure (hf) cohorts. the purpose of the present investigation was to perform a comparative analysis between echocardiography with tdi and cpx in patients with hf and normal ejection fraction (nef). methods patients with hf-nef (n = 32) underwent echocardiography with tdi and cpx to determine the following variables: (1) the ratio between mitral early velocity (e) and mitral annular velocity (e')  (2) ejection fraction  (3) left ventricular (lv) mass  (4) left ventricular end systolic volume  (5) peak oxygen uptake (.vo2)  (6) ventilatory efficiency  (7) the partial pressure of end-tidal carbon dioxide (p(et)co2) at rest and peak exercise  and (8) heart rate recovery at 1 minute (hrr1). results pearson correlation revealed that e/e' was significantly correlated with peak oxygen uptake (r = -0.55  p = .001)  the ventilatory efficiency slope (r = 0.60  p < .001)  resting p(et)co2 (r = -0.39  p = .03)  peak p(et)co2 (r = -0.50  p = .004)  and hrr1 (r = -0.63  p < .001). left ventricular mass and left ventricular end systolic volume were not correlated with any cpx variable. ejection fraction was correlated with hrr1 (r = -0.55  p = .001). an hrr1 threshold of less than 16 and/or 16 or more beats per minute (higher value positive) effectively identified subjects with an e/e' > 10 (positive likelihood ratio: 13:2). discussion e/e' provides an accurate reflection of lv filling pressure and thus  insight into diastolic function. the results of the present investigation indicate cpx provides insight into cardiac dysfunction in patients with hf-nef and thus  may eventually prove to be a valuable and accepted clinical assessment.
3595,successful establishment of long-term bone marrow cultures in 103 patients with myelodysplastic syndromes.,we used bone marrow biopsies instead of mononuclear cells to maintain long-term cultures from 103 patients belonging to all five sub-categories of myelodysplastic syndromes (mds)  as well as 12 normal controls. by week 4  30-50% confluency was reached and could be maintained for up to 12 weeks with 100% confluency. the four prominent cells were fibroblasts  macrophages  endothelial cells and adipocytes. immunohistochemical and electron microscopic studies provided lineage confirmation. normal hematopoiesis was well supported by mds stroma. neither the fab nor cytogenetics was co-related with the potency of growth. mds stroma appears to be both morphologically and functionally normal.
3597,selective enhancement of endothelial bmpr-ii with bmp9 reverses pulmonary arterial hypertension,genetic evidence implicates the loss of bone morphogenetic protein type ii receptor (bmpr-ii) signaling in the endothelium as an initiating factor in pulmonary arterial hypertension (pah). however  selective targeting of this signaling pathway using bmp ligands has not yet been explored as a therapeutic strategy. here  we identify bmp9 as the preferred ligand for preventing apoptosis and enhancing monolayer integrity in both pulmonary arterial endothelial cells and blood outgrowth endothelial cells from subjects with pah who bear mutations in the gene encoding bmpr-ii  bmpr2. mice bearing a heterozygous knock-in allele of a human bmpr2 mutation  r899x  which we generated as an animal model of pah caused by bmpr-ii deficiency  spontaneously developed pah. administration of bmp9 reversed established pah in these mice  as well as in two other experimental pah models  in which pah develops in response to either monocrotaline or vegf receptor inhibition combined with chronic hypoxia. these results demonstrate the promise of direct enhancement of endothelial bmp signaling as a new therapeutic strategy for pah.
3599,prevalence of frequent headache in a population sample.,purpose patients with daily or near-daily headaches are commonly seen in neurology practices and in headache subspecialty centers  but there is little information on the prevalence of this condition in the general population. we present the first us-based study describing the prevalence and characteristics of frequent headache in the general population. methods in baltimore county  maryland  13 343 individuals 18 to 65 years of age were selected by random-digit dialing and interviewed by telephone about their headaches. subjects reporting 180 or more headaches per year were classified as having frequent headache. three mutually exclusive subtypes of frequent headache were identified: frequent headache with migrainous features  chronic tension-type headache  and unclassified frequent headache. results the overall prevalence of frequent headache was 4.1% (5.0% female  2.8% male; 1.8:1 female to male ratio). frequent headache was 33% more common in caucasians (4.4%) than in african americans (3.3%). in both males and females  prevalence was highest in the lowest educational category. among frequent headache sufferers  more than half (52% female  56% male) met criteria for chronic tension-type headache  almost one third (33% female  25% male) met criteria for frequent headache with migrainous features  and the remainder (15% female  19% male) were unclassified. overall  30% of female and 25% of male frequent headache sufferers met international headache society (ihs) criteria for migraine (with or without aura). conclusions frequent headache is common in the general population and is more prevalent in caucasians and in those with less than a high school education. chronic tension-type headache is more common than frequent headache with migrainous features  though the latter is more disabling. although more common in females than males  the female preponderance of frequent headache is less marked than in migraine. the sex ratio varies by frequent headache subtype.
3601,lentiviral vector design and imaging approaches to visualize the early stages of cellular reprogramming.,induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs) can be derived from somatic cells by gene transfer of reprogramming transcription factors. expression levels of these factors strongly influence the overall efficacy to form ipsc colonies  but additional contribution of stochastic cell-intrinsic factors has been proposed. here  we present engineered color-coded lentiviral vectors in which codon-optimized reprogramming factors are co-expressed by a strong retroviral promoter that is rapidly silenced in ipsc  and imaged the conversion of fibroblasts to ipsc. we combined fluorescence microscopy with long-term single cell tracking  and used live-cell imaging to analyze the emergence and composition of early ipsc clusters. applying our engineered lentiviral vectors  we demonstrate that vector silencing typically occurs prior to or simultaneously with the induction of an oct4-egfp pluripotency marker. around 7 days post-transduction (pt)  a subfraction of cells in clonal colonies expressed oct4-egfp and rapidly expanded. cell tracking of single cell-derived ipsc colonies supported the concept that stochastic epigenetic changes are necessary for reprogramming. we also found that ipsc colonies may emerge as a genetic mosaic originating from different clusters. improved vector design with continuous cell tracking thus creates a powerful system to explore the subtle dynamics of biological processes such as early reprogramming events.
3603,beta oscillations in a large-scale sensorimotor cortical network: directional influences revealed by granger causality.,previous studies have shown that synchronized beta frequency (14-30 hz) oscillations in the primary motor cortex are involved in maintaining steady contractions of contralateral arm and hand muscles. however  little is known about the role of postcentral cortical areas in motor maintenance and their patterns of interaction with motor cortex. we investigated the functional relations of beta-synchronized neuronal assemblies in pre- and postcentral areas of two monkeys as they pressed a hand lever during the wait period of a visual discrimination task. by using power and coherence spectral analysis  we identified a beta-synchronized large-scale network linking pre- and postcentral areas. we then used granger causality spectra to measure directional influences among recording sites. in both monkeys  strong granger causal influences were observed from primary somatosensory cortex to both motor cortex and inferior posterior parietal cortex  with the latter area also exerting granger causal influences on motor cortex. granger causal influences from motor cortex to postcentral sites  however  were weak in one monkey and not observed in the other. these results are the first  to our knowledge  to demonstrate in awake monkeys that synchronized beta oscillations bind multiple sensorimotor areas into a large-scale network during motor maintenance behavior and carry granger causal influences from primary somatosensory and inferior posterior parietal cortices to motor cortex.
3605,a case of paraquat intoxication caused by intravenous injection.,paraquat intoxication is a fatal problem. most paraquat intoxications happen through oral administration. we report a case of death after intravenous paraquat injection. there is little clinical data on parenteral paraquat exposure  and we describe this case and fatal progression. toxic symptoms and severe organ function impairment developed soon after injection. treatment with repeated activated charcoal hemoperfusion with pulse steroids  cyclophosphamide  and antioxidants was attempted. the patient died from multiple organ failure 3 days after intoxication. this case indicates that paraquat intoxication via intravenous injection  even in very small amounts  has an extremely poor prognosis.
3607,identification and characterization of subpopulations in undifferentiated es cell culture.,embryonic stem (es) cells are pluripotent cells derived from the inner cell mass (icm) and the epiblast  and have been suggested to be a homogeneous population with characteristics intermediate between them. these cells express oct3/4 and rex1 genes  which have been used as markers to indicate the undifferentiated state of es cells. whereas oct3/4 is expressed in totipotent and pluripotent cells in the mouse life cycle  rex1 expression is restricted to the icm  and is downregulated in pluripotent cell populations in the later stages  i.e. the epiblast and primitive ectoderm (pre). to address whether es cells comprise a homogeneous population equivalent to a certain developmental stage of pluripotent cells or a heterogeneous population composed of cells corresponding to various stages of differentiation  we established knock-in es cell lines in which genes for fluorescent proteins were inserted into the rex1 and oct3/4 gene loci to visualize the expression of these genes. we found that undifferentiated es cells included at least two different populations  rex1(+)/oct3/4(+) cells and rex1(-)/oct3/4(+) cells. the rex1(-)/oct3/4(+) and rex1(+)/oct3/4(+) populations could convert into each other in the presence of lif. in accordance with our assumption that rex1(+)/oct3/4(+) cells and rex1(-)/oct3/4(+) cells have characteristics similar to those of icm and early-pre cells  rex1(+)/oct3/4(+) cells predominantly differentiated into primitive ectoderm and contributed to chimera formation  whereas rex1(-)/oct3/4(+) cells differentiated into cells of the somatic lineage more efficiently than non-fractionated es cells in vitro and showed poor ability to contribute to chimera formation. these results confirmed that undifferentiated es cell culture contains subpopulations corresponding to icm  epiblast and pre.
3609,two structurally independent domains of e. coli nusg create regulatory plasticity via distinct interactions with rna polymerase and regulators.,nusg is a conserved regulatory protein that interacts with elongation complexes (ecs) of rna polymerase  dna  and rna to modulate transcription in multiple and sometimes opposite ways. in escherichia coli  nusg suppresses pausing and increases elongation rate  enhances termination by e. coli rho and phage hk022 nun protein  and promotes antitermination by lambdan and in ribosomal rna operons. we report nmr studies that suggest that e. coli nusg consists of two largely independent n- and c-terminal structural domains  ntd and ctd  respectively. based on tests of the functions of the ntd and ctd and variants of nusg in vivo and in vitro  we find that ntd alone is sufficient to suppress pausing and enhance transcript elongation in vitro. however  neither domain alone can enhance rho-dependent termination or support antitermination  indicating that interactions of both domains with ecs are required for these processes. we propose that the two domains of nusg mediate distinct interactions with ecs: the ntd interacts with rna polymerase and the ctd interacts with rho and other regulators  providing nusg with different combinations of interactions to effect different regulatory outcomes.
3611,integrins and cell proliferation: regulation of cyclin-dependent kinases via cytoplasmic signaling pathways.,cell cycle progression in mammalian cells is strictly regulated by both integrin-mediated adhesion to the extracellular matrix and by binding of growth factors to their receptors. this regulation is mediated by g1 phase cyclin-dependent kinases (cdks)  which are downstream of signaling pathways under the integrated control of both integrins and growth factor receptors. recent advances demonstrate a surprisingly diverse array of integrin-dependent signals that are channeled into the regulation of the g1 phase cdks. regulation of cyclin d1 by the erk pathway may provide a paradigm for understanding how cell adhesion can determine cell cycle progression.
3613,development of a questionnaire to measure heart disease risk knowledge in people with diabetes: the heart disease fact questionnaire.,this paper describes a paper and pencil questionnaire that measures heart disease risk knowledge in people with diabetes. the heart disease fact questionnaire (hdfq) is a 25-item questionnaire that was developed to tap into respondents' knowledge of major risk factors for the development of chd. approximately half of these items specifically address diabetes-related chd risk factors. based on extensive pilot data  the current study analyzed responses from 524 people with diabetes to assess the psychometric properties. the hdfq is readable to an average 13-year old and imposes little burden. it shows good content and face validity. it demonstrates adequate internal consistency  with kuder-richardson-20 formula = 0.77 and good item-total correlations. item analysis showed a desirable range in p-values. in discriminant function analyses  hdfq scores differentiated respondents by knowledge of their own cardiovascular health  use of lipid lowering medications  health insurance status  and educational attainment  thus indicating good criterion related validity. this measure of heart disease risk knowledge is brief  understandable to respondents  and easy to administer and score. its potential for use in research and practice is discussed. future research should establish norms as well as investigate its test-retest reliability and predictive validity.
3615,a kinetochore-independent mechanism drives anaphase chromosome separation during acentrosomal meiosis,although assembly of acentrosomal meiotic spindles has been extensively studied  little is known about the segregation of chromosomes on these spindles. here  we show in caenorhabditis elegans oocytes that the kinetochore protein  knl-1  directs assembly of meiotic kinetochores that orient chromosomes. however  in contrast to mitosis  chromosome separation during meiotic anaphase is kinetochore-independent. before anaphase  meiotic kinetochores and spindle poles disassemble along with the microtubules on the poleward side of chromosomes. during anaphase  microtubules then form between the separating chromosomes. functional analysis implicated a set of proteins that localize to a ring-shaped domain between kinetochores during pre-anaphase spindle assembly and anaphase separation. these proteins are localized by the chromosomal passenger complex  which regulates the loss of meiotic chromosome cohesion. thus  meiotic segregation in c. elegans is a two-stage process  where kinetochores orient chromosomes  but are then dispensable for their separation. we suggest that separation is controlled by a meiosis-specific chromosomal domain to coordinate cohesin removal and chromosome segregation.
3617,20-year outcomes following conservative management of clinically localized prostate cancer.,context the appropriate therapy for men with clinically localized prostate cancer is uncertain. a recent study suggested an increasing prostate cancer mortality rate for men who are alive more than 15 years following diagnosis. objective to estimate 20-year survival based on a competing risk analysis of men who were diagnosed with clinically localized prostate cancer and treated with observation or androgen withdrawal therapy alone  stratified by age at diagnosis and histological findings. design  setting  and patients a retrospective population-based cohort study using connecticut tumor registry data supplemented by hospital record and histology review of 767 men aged 55 to 74 years with clinically localized prostate cancer diagnosed between january 1  1971  and december 31  1984. patients were treated with either observation or immediate or delayed androgen withdrawal therapy  with a median observation of 24 years. main outcome measures probability of mortality from prostate cancer or other competing medical conditions  given a patient's age at diagnosis and tumor grade. results the prostate cancer mortality rate was 33 per 1000 person-years during the first 15 years of follow-up (95% confidence interval [ci]  28-38) and 18 per 1000 person-years after 15 years of follow-up (95% ci  10-29). the mortality rates for these 2 follow-up periods were not statistically different  after adjusting for differences in tumor histology (rate ratio  1.1; 95% ci  0.6-1.9). men with low-grade prostate cancers have a minimal risk of dying from prostate cancer during 20 years of follow-up (gleason score of 2-4  6 deaths per 1000 person-years; 95% ci  2-11). men with high-grade prostate cancers have a high probability of dying from prostate cancer within 10 years of diagnosis (gleason score of 8-10  121 deaths per 1000 person-years; 95% ci  90-156). men with gleason score of 5 or 6 tumors have an intermediate risk of prostate cancer death. conclusion the annual mortality rate from prostate cancer appears to remain stable after 15 years from diagnosis  which does not support aggressive treatment for localized low-grade prostate cancer.
3619,new development of the yolk sac theory in diabetic embryopathy: molecular mechanism and link to structural birth defects.,maternal diabetes mellitus is a significant risk factor for structural birth defects  including congenital heart defects and neural tube defects. with the rising prevalence of type 2 diabetes mellitus and obesity in women of childbearing age  diabetes mellitus-induced birth defects have become an increasingly significant public health problem. maternal diabetes mellitus in vivo and high glucose in vitro induce yolk sac injuries by damaging the morphologic condition of cells and altering the dynamics of organelles. the yolk sac vascular system is the first system to develop during embryogenesis; therefore  it is the most sensitive to hyperglycemia. the consequences of yolk sac injuries include impairment of nutrient transportation because of vasculopathy. although the functional relationship between yolk sac vasculopathy and structural birth defects has not yet been established  a recent study reveals that the quality of yolk sac vasculature is related inversely to embryonic malformation rates. studies in animal models have uncovered key molecular intermediates of diabetic yolk sac vasculopathy  which include hypoxia-inducible factor-1α  apoptosis signal-regulating kinase 1  and its inhibitor thioredoxin-1  c-jun-n-terminal kinases  nitric oxide  and nitric oxide synthase. yolk sac vasculopathy is also associated with abnormalities in arachidonic acid and myo-inositol. dietary supplementation with fatty acids that restore lipid levels in the yolk sac lead to a reduction in diabetes mellitus-induced malformations. although the role of the human yolk in embryogenesis is less extensive than in rodents  nevertheless  human embryonic vasculogenesis is affected negatively by maternal diabetes mellitus. mechanistic studies have identified potential therapeutic targets for future intervention against yolk sac vasculopathy  birth defects  and other complications associated with diabetic pregnancies.
3621,requirement of endogenous stem cell factor and granulocyte-colony-stimulating factor for il-17-mediated granulopoiesis.,il-17 is a novel  cd4+ t cell-restricted cytokine. in vivo  it stimulates hematopoiesis and causes neutrophilia consisting of mature granulocytes. in this study  we show that il-17-mediated granulopoiesis requires g-csf release and the presence or induction of the transmembrane form of stem cell factor (scf) for optimal granulopoiesis. however  il-17 also protects mice from g-csf neutralization-induced neutropenia. g-csf neutralization completely reversed il-17-induced bm progenitor expansion  whereas splenic cfu-gm/cfu-granulocyte-erythrocyte-megakaryocyte-monocyte was only reduced by 50% in both sl/sld and littermate control mice. thus  there remained a significant scf/g-csf-independent effect of il-17 on splenic granulopoiesis  resulting in a preservation of mature circulating granulocytes. il-17 is a cytokine that potentially interconnects lymphocytic and myeloid host defense and may have potential for therapeutic development.
3623,comorbidity between adhd and obesity: exploring shared mechanisms and clinical implications.,recent studies suggest an association between attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (adhd) and obesity. in this article  we systematically review and critically discuss evidence on the prevalence of adhd in obese patients as well as the weight status of individuals with adhd. relevant articles were searched in pubmed  psychinfo  and isi web of science (january 1980 to june 2010). we found that current evidence indicates a high prevalence of adhd in clinical samples of patients seeking treatment for their obesity. moreover  available studies show that individuals with adhd have higher-than-average body mass index z scores and/or a significantly higher prevalence of obesity compared with subjects without adhd. three mechanisms underlying the association between adhd and obesity have been proposed: 1) it is possible that obesity and/or factors associated with it (such as sleep-disordered breathing) manifest as adhd-like symptoms; 2) adhd and obesity share common biological dysfunctions; and 3) adhd contributes to obesity. with regards to the possible clinical implications  our findings suggest that it is noteworthy to screen for adhd in patients with obesity and to look for abnormal eating behaviors as possible contributing factors of obesity in patients with adhd. based on preliminary findings  appropriate treatment of adhd may improve the weight status of individuals with both obesity and adhd.
3625,improvements in survival and clinical benefit with gemcitabine as first-line therapy for patients with advanced pancreas cancer: a randomized trial.,purpose most patients with advanced pancreas cancer experience pain and must limit their daily activities because of tumor-related symptoms. to date  no treatment has had a significant impact on the disease. in early studies with gemcitabine  patients with pancreas cancer experienced an improvement in disease-related symptoms. based on those findings  a definitive trial was performed to assess the effectiveness of gemcitabine in patients with newly diagnosed advanced pancreas cancer. patients and methods one hundred twenty-six patients with advanced symptomatic pancreas cancer completed a lead-in period to characterize and stabilize pain and were randomized to receive either gemcitabine 1 000 mg/m2 weekly x 7 followed by 1 week of rest  then weekly x 3 every 4 weeks thereafter (63 patients)  or to fluorouracil (5-fu) 600 mg/m2 once weekly (63 patients). the primary efficacy measure was clinical benefit response  which was a composite of measurements of pain (analgesic consumption and pain intensity)  karnofsky performance status  and weight. clinical benefit required a sustained (> or = 4 weeks) improvement in at least one parameter without worsening in any others. other measures of efficacy included response rate  time to progressive disease  and survival. results clinical benefit response was experienced by 23.8% of gemcitabine-treated patients compared with 4.8% of 5-fu-treated patients (p = .0022). the median survival durations were 5.65 and 4.41 months for gemcitabine-treated and 5-fu-treated patients  respectively (p = .0025). the survival rate at 12 months was 18% for gemcitabine patients and 2% for 5-fu patients. treatment was well tolerated. conclusion this study demonstrates that gemcitabine is more effective than 5-fu in alleviation of some disease-related symptoms in patients with advanced  symptomatic pancreas cancer. gemcitabine also confers a modest survival advantage over treatment with 5-fu.
3627,effect of phosducin silencing on the photokinetic motile response of blepharisma japonicum.,the coloured ciliate blepharisma japonicum changes swimming velocity (positive photokinesis) and elongates its body in response to a prolonged illumination. we have recently proposed that alterations in the phosphorylation level of the ciliate phosducin (pdc) may be involved in light-induced cell elongation  which in turn affects the interaction of βγ-dimer of g-proteins (gβγ) with β-tubulin and subsequent cytoskeletal remodelling. the cellular mechanism that governs the photokinetic effect in this ciliate has not been elucidated. in the present study  we utilise real-time pcr to demonstrate that the levels of ciliate pdc mrna are significantly reduced in pdc-rnai-treated cells compared to cells fed with bacteria carrying the empty vector (control cells). using western immunoblotting  we confirmed that these cells treated with pdc-rnai expressed a substantially lower level of the pdc protein. the assay also revealed that in ciliates treated with pdc-rnai and exposed to light  the cytosolic level of gβ (~36 kda) was reduced  whereas the level of gβ localized to the membrane (~32 kda) was increased compared to control cells. in addition  behavioural analysis of the cells indicated a substantial reduction of photokinesis. the findings in this study provide additional characterization of the functional properties of the ciliate pdc protein and we discuss a likely role for this phosphoprotein in the photokinetic phenomenon of the ciliate protist blepharisma.
3629,echocardiographic assessment of left ventricular hypertrophy: comparison to necropsy findings.,to determine the accuracy of echocardiographic left ventricular (lv) dimension and mass measurements for detection and quantification of lv hypertrophy  results of blindly read antemortem echocardiograms were compared with lv mass measurements made at necropsy in 55 patients. lv mass was calculated using m-mode lv measurements by penn and american society of echocardiography (ase) conventions and cube function and volume correction formulas in 52 patients. penn-cube lv mass correlated closely with necropsy lv mass (r = 0.92  p less than 0.001) and overestimated it by only 6%; sensitivity in 18 patients with lv hypertrophy (necropsy lv mass more than 215 g) was 100% (18 of 18 patients) and specificity was 86% (29 of 34 patients). ase-cube lv mass correlated similarly to necropsy lv mass (r = 0.90  p less than 0.001)  but systematically overestimated it (by a mean of 25%); the overestimation could be corrected by the equation: lv mass = 0.80 (ase-cube lv mass) + 0.6 g. use of ase measurements in the volume correction formula systematically underestimated necropsy lv mass (by a mean of 30%). in a subset of 9 patients  3 of whom had technically inadequate m-mode echocardiograms  2-dimensional echocardiographic (echo) lv mass by 2 methods was also significantly related to necropsy lv mass (r = 0.68  p less than 0.05 and r = 0.82  p less than 0.01). among other indexes of lv anatomy  only measurement of myocardial cross-sectional area was acceptably accurate for quantitation of lv mass (r = 0.80  p less than 0.001) or diagnosis of lv hypertrophy (sensitivity = 72%  specificity = 94%).(abstract truncated at 250 words)
3631,[efficacy on post-stroke depression treated with acupuncture at the acupoints based on ziwuliuzhu and prozac].,objective to observe the effects on post-stroke depression treated with acupuncture at the acu points based on ziwuliuzhu (the midnight-noon ebb-flow theory). methods ninety-three patients were randomized into a comprehensive group  a ziwuliuzhu group and a prozac group  31 cases in each group. in the ziwuliuzhu group  acupuncture was applied to the acupoints based on ziwuliuzhu  once a day  5 times in a week. in the prozac group  fluoxertine hydrochloride (prozac) was prescribed for oral administration  once a day  20 mg each time. in the comprehensive group  acupuncture based on ziwuliuzhu combined with the oral administration of prozac were adopted and the treatment frequency was the same as the ziwuliuzhu group and the prozac group. the 4-week treatment was taken as one session in the three groups and 6 sessions were required totally. the clinical efficacy and the hamilton depression rating scale (hamd) score and the adverse reaction were compared among the 3 groups. results the total effective rate was 96.8% (30/31) in the comprehensive group  better than 83.9% (26/31) in the ziwuliuzhu group and 80. 6% (25/31) in the prozac group (both p<0.05). in 4  12 and 24 weeks of treatment  hamd score was lower significantly than that before the treatment in the three groups (all p<0.05)  and the score in the comprehensive group at each time point after treatment was lower than the other two groups (all p<0.05). in 4 and 12 weeks of treatment  there were not different significantly between the ziwuliuzhu group and the prozac group (both p>0.05). in 24 weeks of treatment  hamd score in the ziwuliuzhu group was lower than that in the prozac group (p<0.05). for the adverse reaction  there were 2 cases in the comprehensive group  6 cases in the prozac group and 0 case in the ziwzuliuzhu group. conclusion the comprehensive therapy of acupuncture at the acupoints based on ziwuliuzhu and oral administration of prozac is superior to either the simple oral administration of prozac or the ziwuliuzhu acu-puncture in terms of clinical efficacy and the improvements in depressive state. regarding the clinical efficacy  the impact of simple ziwuliuzhu acupuncture is not different significantly as compared with the simple oral administration of prozac  but it is better than the simple oral administration of prozac in terms of the long-term hamd score and safety.
3633,the diabetes prevention program: baseline characteristics of the randomized cohort. the diabetes prevention program research group.,objective the diabetes prevention program (dpp) is a 27-center randomized clinical trial designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of interventions that may delay or prevent development of diabetes in people at increased risk for type 2 diabetes. research design and methods eligibility requirements were age > or = 25 years  bmi > or = 24 kg/m2 (> or = 22 kg/m2 for asian-americans)  and impaired glucose tolerance plus a fasting plasma glucose of 5.3-6.9 mmol/l (or < or = 6.9 mmol for american indians). randomization of participants into the dpp over 2.7 years ended in june 1999. baseline data for the three treatment groups--intensive lifestyle modification  standard care plus metformin  and standard care plus placebo--are presented for the 3 234 participants who have been randomized. results of all participants   55% were caucasian  20% were african-american  16% were hispanic  5% were american indian  and 4% were asian-american. their average age at entry was 51 +/- 10.7 years (mean +/- sd)  and 67.7% were women. moreover  16% were < 40 years of age  and 20% were > or = 60 years of age. of the women  48% were postmenopausal. men and women had similar frequencies of history of hypercholesterolemia (37 and 33%  respectively) or hypertension (29 and 26%  respectively). on the basis of fasting lipid determinations  54% of men and 40% of women fit national cholesterol education program criteria for abnormal lipid profiles. more men than women were current or former cigarette smokers or had a history of coronary heart disease. furthermore  66% of men and 71% of women had a first-degree relative with diabetes. overall  bmi averaged 34.0 +/- 6.7 kg/m2 at baseline with 57% of the men and 73% of women having a bmi > or = 30 kg/m2. average fasting plasma glucose (6.0 +/- 0.5 mmol/l) and hba1c (5.9 +/- 0.5%) in men were comparable with values in women (5.9 +/- 0.4 mmol/l and 5.9 +/- 0.5%  respectively). conclusions the dpp has successfully randomized a large cohort of participants with a wide distribution of age  obesity  and ethnic and racial backgrounds who are at high risk for developing type 2 diabetes. the study will examine the effects of interventions on the development of diabetes.
3635,a minimal tat system from a gram-positive organism: a bifunctional tata subunit participates in discrete tatac and tata complexes.,the tat system transports folded proteins across bacterial and thylakoid membranes. in gram-negative organisms  a tatabc substrate-binding complex and separate tata complex are believed to coalesce to form an active translocon  with all three subunits essential for translocation. most gram-positive organisms lack a tatb gene  indicating major differences in organization and possible differences in mode of action. here  we have studied tat complexes encoded by the tatadcd genes of bacillus subtilis. expression of tatadcd in an escherichia coli tat null mutant results in efficient export of a large  cofactor-containing e. coli tat substrate  tora. we show that the tatad gene complements e. coli mutants lacking either tatae or tatb  indicating a bifunctional role for this subunit in b. subtilis. second  we have identified and characterized two distinct tat complexes that are novel in key respects: a tatadcd complex of approximately 230 kda that is significantly smaller than the analogous e. coli tatabc complex (approximately 370 kda on bn gels) and a separate tatad complex. the latter is a discrete entity of approximately 270 kda as judged by gel filtration chromatography  very different from the highly heterogeneous e. coli tata complex that ranges in size from approximately 50 kda to over 600 kda. tata heterogeneity has been linked to the varying size of tat substrates being translocated  but the singular nature of the b. subtilis tatad complex suggests that discrete tatac and tata complexes may form a single form of translocon.
3637,orai1 and stim reconstitute store-operated calcium channel function.,the two membrane proteins  stim1 and orai1  have each been shown to be essential for the activation of store-operated channels (soc). yet  how these proteins functionally interact is not known. here  we reveal that stim1 and orai1 expressed together reconstitute functional socs. expressed alone  orai1 strongly reduces store-operated ca(2+) entry (soce) in human embryonic kidney 293 cells and the ca(2+) release-activated ca(2+) current (i(crac)) in rat basophilic leukemia cells. however  expressed along with the store-sensing stim1 protein  orai1 causes a massive increase in soce  enhancing the rate of ca(2+)entry by up to 103-fold. this entry is entirely store-dependent since the same coexpression causes no measurable store-independent ca(2+) entry. the entry is completely blocked by the soc blocker  2-aminoethoxydiphenylborate. orai1 and stim1 coexpression also caused a large gain in crac channel function in rat basophilic leukemia cells. the close stim1 homologue  stim2  inhibited soce when expressed alone but coexpressed with orai1 caused substantial constitutive (store-independent) ca(2+) entry. stim proteins are known to mediate ca(2+) store-sensing and endoplasmic reticulum-plasma membrane coupling with no intrinsic channel properties. our results revealing a powerful gain in soc function dependent on the presence of both orai1 and stim1 strongly suggest that orai1 contributes the pm channel component responsible for ca(2+) entry. the suppression of soc function by orai1 overexpression likely reflects a required stoichiometry between stim1 and orai1.
3639,the last and the next hundred years of malariology.,the founding fathers of malariology combined scientific originality  perseverance in research  strong characters  breadth of interest and social concern. a hundred years later research and understanding has made immense progress but the world still bears a huge burden of malaria. for the next century research requires both more specialism and a holistic range if it is to be used in control  requiring multidisciplinary team work. environmental changes and interventions produce a dynamic and changing pattern of malaria  not the static one of the past. from the original parasite life cycle  research has analysed a series of other cycles at electron microscope  biochemical and genome levels on decreasing size scales and quantitative epidemiological cycles for control. recent additions to these concepts have been stage-specific antigens  cycles of disease rather than parasites alone  considering populations of parasites rather than just cases  and also genetic variation in each component of the parasite-human host-vector triad. in this volume there emerges for the first time a coherent overall picture of the biomedical aspects of basic malariology as the interacting population genetics of malaria parasites  anophelines and people. this provides a coherent model for the new century dealing with the great biological malaria problems of drug resistance  vaccine development  insecticidal and net control and can feed  with socio-economic work  into the gathering renewal of control efforts. new work on large-scale changes of malaria in space and time enables us to be precise about effects of local and global environmental changes to predict epidemics. future research will be as much about linking these different scales of understanding as control will be about linking different levels of the health system. the grim situation in poor holoendemic countries also requires practical support of the type that the founders of malariology were involved in. a coherent understanding needs to feed into the new control efforts  from roll back malaria onwards  for the next century.
3641,evaluation of cortical bone by peripheral quantitative computed tomography in renal transplant recipients.,background the absolute risk of fractures in renal transplant patients is 3 times that of matched controls. most of the symptomatic fractures are peripheral  suggesting a greater compromise of cortical bone. peripheral quantitative computed tomography (pqct) is a new imaging technique that allows separate noninvasive evaluations of cortical and trabecular bones. we investigated cortical bone by pqct in 12 renal transplant patients (seven men and five women) for comparison with 27 normal controls. methods pqct (xct 960  stratec  pforheim  germany) was performed upon the distal radius of the nondominant forearm (15% the length of the ulna  proximal from the radius end plate). we evaluated total and cortical bone mineral density (tbmd  cbmd)  total (cross-sectional) and cortical area (ta  ca)  cortical thickness (cthk)  endosteal and periosteal circumferences  and the buckling ratio (r/cthk). results compared with normal controls transplant patients as a whole showed a significant increase in ta  in endosteal circumference (p < .001)  and in the buckling ratio (p < .001) with a significant reduction in cthk (p < .001). female patients had a marked decrease in ca (51.4 vs 69.3 [pixel n]; p < .0001) and cthk (2.08 vs 2.78 mm; p < .0001). male patients also had a decrease in cthk (2.54 vs 3.30 mm; p = .0001) and an increase in endosteal perimeter (31.2 vs 26.4 mm; p < .0001). total time on dialysis prior to renal graft correlated negatively with cortical thickness (r = .62; p < .01). conclusions our results suggest that a marked thinning of cortical bone may explain the increased incidence of peripheral fractures among renal transplant patients.
3643,combination cancer immunotherapies tailored to the tumour microenvironment,evidence suggests that cancer immunotherapy will be a major part of the combination treatment plan for many patients with many cancer types in the near future. there are many types of immune processes involving different antitumour and tumour-promoting leucocytes  and tumour cells use many strategies to evade the immune response. the tumour microenvironment can help determine which immune suppressive pathways become activated to restrain antitumour immunity. this includes immune checkpoint receptors on effector t-cells and myeloid cells  and release of inhibitory cytokines and metabolites. therapeutic approaches that target these pathways  particularly immune-checkpoint receptors  can induce durable antitumour responses in patients with advanced-stage cancers  including melanoma. nevertheless  many patients do not have a good response to monotherapy approaches and alternative strategies are required to achieve optimal therapeutic benefit. these strategies include eliminating the bulk of tumour cells to provoke tumour-antigen release and antigen-presenting cell (apc) function  using adjuvants to enhance apc function  and using agents that enhance effector-cell activity. in this review  we discuss the stratification of the tumour microenvironment according to tumour-infiltrating lymphocytes and pd-l1 expression in the tumour  and how this stratification enables the design of optimal combination cancer therapies tailored to target different tumour microenvironments.
3645,tet proteins can convert 5-methylcytosine to 5-formylcytosine and 5-carboxylcytosine.,5-methylcytosine (5mc) in dna plays an important role in gene expression  genomic imprinting  and suppression of transposable elements. 5mc can be converted to 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmc) by the tet (ten eleven translocation) proteins. here  we show that  in addition to 5hmc  the tet proteins can generate 5-formylcytosine (5fc) and 5-carboxylcytosine (5cac) from 5mc in an enzymatic activity-dependent manner. furthermore  we reveal the presence of 5fc and 5cac in genomic dna of mouse embryonic stem cells and mouse organs. the genomic content of 5hmc  5fc  and 5cac can be increased or reduced through overexpression or depletion of tet proteins. thus  we identify two previously unknown cytosine derivatives in genomic dna as the products of tet proteins. our study raises the possibility that dna demethylation may occur through tet-catalyzed oxidation followed by decarboxylation.
3647,growth control and ribosomopathies.,ribosome biogenesis and protein synthesis are two of the most energy consuming processes in a growing cell. moreover  defects in their molecular components can alter the pattern of gene expression. thus it is understandable that cells have developed a surveillance system to monitor the status of the translational machinery. recent discoveries of causative mutations and deletions in genes linked to ribosome biogenesis have defined a group of similar pathologies termed ribosomopathies. over the past decade  much has been learned regarding the relationship between growth control and ribosome biogenesis. the discovery of extra-ribosomal functions of several ribosome proteins and their regulation of p53 levels has provided a link from ribosome impairment to cell cycle regulation. yet  evidence suggesting p53 and/or hdm2 independent pathways also exists. in this review  we summarize recent advances in understanding the mechanisms underlying the pathologies of ribosomopathies and discuss the relationship between ribosome production and tumorigenesis.
3649,killing by bactericidal antibiotics does not depend on reactive oxygen species.,bactericidal antibiotics kill by modulating their respective targets. this traditional view has been challenged by studies that propose an alternative  unified mechanism of killing  whereby toxic reactive oxygen species (ros) are produced in the presence of antibiotics. we found no correlation between an individual cell's probability of survival in the presence of antibiotic and its level of ros. an ros quencher  thiourea  protected cells from antibiotics present at low concentrations  but the effect was observed under anaerobic conditions as well. there was essentially no difference in survival of bacteria treated with various antibiotics under aerobic or anaerobic conditions. this suggests that ros do not play a role in killing of bacterial pathogens by antibiotics.
3651,differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells and embryonic stem cells into steroidogenic cells using steroidogenic factor-1 and liver receptor homolog-1.,previously  we have demonstrated that mesenchymal stem cells could be differentiated into steroidogenic cells through steroidogenic factor-1 and 8bromo-camp treatment. use of liver receptor homolog-1  another of the nuclear receptor 5a family nuclear receptors  with 8bromo-camp also resulted in the differentiation of human mesenchymal stem cells into steroid hormone-producing cells. the same approaches could not be applied to other undifferentiated cells such as embryonic stem cells or embryonal carcinoma cells  because the over-expression of the nuclear receptor 5a family is cytotoxic to these cells. we established embryonic stem cells carrying tetracycline-regulated steroidogenic factor-1 gene at the rosa26 locus. the embryonic stem cells were first differentiated into a mesenchymal cell lineage by culturing on collagen iv-coated dishes and treating with pulse exposures of retinoic acid before expression of steroidogenic factor-1. although the untreated embryonic stem cells could not be converted into steroidogenic cells by expression of steroidogenic factor-1 in the absence of leukemia inhibitory factor due to inability of the cells to survive  the differentiated cells could be successfully converted into steroidogenic cells when expression of steroidogenic factor-1 was induced. they exhibited characteristics of adrenocortical-like cells and produced a large amount of corticosterone. these results indicated that pluripotent stem cells could be differentiated into steroidogenic cells by the nuclear receptor 5a family of protein via the mesenchymal cell lineage. this approach may provide a source of cells for future gene therapy for diseases caused by steroidogenesis deficiencies.
3653,potassium channel structure and function as reported by a single glycosylation sequon.,inwardly rectifying k+ channels (irks) are highly k(+)-selective  integral membrane proteins that help maintain resting the membrane potential and cell volume. integral membrane proteins as a class are frequently n-glycosylated with the attached carbohydrate being extracellular and perhaps modulating function. however  dynamic effects of glycosylation have yet to be demonstrated at the molecular level. romk1  a member of the irk family is particularly suited to the study of glycosylation because it has a single n-glycosylation consensus sequence (ho  k.  nichols  c. g.  lederer  w. j.  lytton  j.  vassilev  p. m.  kanazirska  m. v.  and herbert  s. c. (1993) nature 362  31-38). we show that romk1 is expressed in a functional state in the plasmalemma of an insect cell line (spodoptera frugiperda  sf9) and has two structures  glycosylated and unglycosylated. to test functionality  glycosylation was abolished by an n117q mutation or by treatment with tunicamycin. whole cell currents were greatly reduced in both of the unglycosylated forms compared to wild-type. single channel currents revealed a dramatic decrease in opening probability  po  as the causative factor. thus we have shown biochemically that the n-glycosylation sequon is extracellular  a result consistent with present topological models of irks  and we conclude that sequon occupancy by carbohydrate stabilizes the open state of romk1.
3655,targeting brain cancer: advances in the molecular pathology of malignant glioma and medulloblastoma,malignant brain tumours continue to be the cause of a disproportionate level of morbidity and mortality across a wide range of individuals. the most common variants in the adult and paediatric populations — malignant glioma and medulloblastoma  respectively — have been the subject of increasingly intensive research over the past two decades that has led to considerable advances in the understanding of their basic biology and pathogenesis. this review summarizes these developments in the context of the evolving notion of molecular pathology and discusses the implications that this work has on the design of new treatment regimens.
3657,generating an ipsc bank for hla-matched tissue transplantation based on known donor and recipient hla types.,the likelihood for immunological rejection of human leukocyte antigens (hla)-mismatched induced pluripotent stem cells (ipscs) limits their therapeutic potential. here we show how a tissue bank from 150 selected homozygous hla-typed volunteers could match 93% of the uk population with a minimal requirement for immunosuppression. our model provides a practical approach for using existing hla-typed samples to generate an ipsc stem cell bank that circumvents prospective typing of a large number of individuals.
3659,evaluation of her-2/neu amplification and other biological markers as predictors of response to neoadjuvant anthracycline-based chemotherapy in primary breast cancer: the role of anthracycline dose intensity.,objectives the value of her-2/neu status as a predictor of response to anthracycline-based chemotherapy is still a matter of debate. we evaluated the contribution of her-2/neu gene amplification and other biologic markers in predicting response to different doses of neoadjuvant anthracycline-based chemotherapy. methods clinical and pathologic records of 115 primary breast cancer patients were reviewed. forty-eight and 67 patients received high (doxorubicin > or =20 mg/m2/wk; epirubicin > or =30 mg/m2/wk) and moderate-low anthracycline dose intensity regimens  respectively. pathologic diagnosis  hormonal receptor status (hr)  ki67  and her-2/neu status were assessed on tumor samples before neoadjuvant chemotherapy. her-2/neu was determined by fluorescence in situ hybridization (fish). results her-2/neu amplification was observed in 29/115 (25%) tumors  18 from moderate-low-dose and 11 from high-dose group. in the univariate analysis  a high ki67 index (> or =20%) and positive clinical axillary nodes were predictive of an objective tumor response (p = 0.033 and 0.001  respectively). in the multivariate analysis  ki67 was the only factor predictive of response (or = 3.08  95% ci = 1.1-8.5  p = 0.03). her-2/neu status was not a factor in predicting objective response to different anthracycline dose intensities. the same finding was observed with regards to hr and ki67. conclusions in our series  no significant dose-response relationship was found according to her-2/neu status.
3661,caenorhabditis elegans cyclin a- and b-type genes: a cyclin a multigene family  an ancestral cyclin b3 and differential germline expression.,we have cloned cdnas for caenorhabditis elegans cyclins a1  b and b3. while cyclins a1 and b are most closely related to either a- or b-type cyclins of other species  cyclin b3 is less related to these cyclins. however  this cyclin is most similar to the recently identified chicken cyclin b3. our identification of a caenorhabditis homolog demonstrates that cyclin b3 has been conserved in evolution. cyclin a1 is a member of an a-type multigene family; however the cyclin a1 cdna only recognizes a single band on northern blots. a single-sized rna is also observed for the cyclin b3 cdna. in contrast  three different transcripts are observed for the cyclin b cdna. based on our analyses using rnas from germline-defective mutants and from populations enriched for males  one cyclin b transcript is specific to the paternal germline. the two other cyclin b transcripts  as well as the cyclin a1 and cyclin b3 transcripts  are most abundant in the maternal germline and are only present at low levels in other tissues. moreover  the 3' untranslated regions of each caenorhabditis cyclin cdna possess several copies of potential translational control elements shown in xenopus and drosophila maternal cyclin mrnas to function during oogenesis and early embryogenesis.
3663,homeostasis model assessment: insulin resistance and β-cell function from fasting plasma glucose and insulin concentrations in man,the steady-state basal plasma glucose and insulin concentrations are determined by their interaction in a feedback loop. a computer-solved model has been used to predict the homeostatic concentrations which arise from varying degrees of β-cell deficiency and insulin resistance. comparison of a patient's fasting values with the model's predictions allows a quantitative assessment of the contributions of insulin resistance and deficient β-cell function to the fasting hyperglycaemia (homeostasis model assessment  homa). the accuracy and precision of the estimate have been determined by comparison with independent measures of insulin resistance and β-cell function using hyperglycaemic and euglycaemic clamps and an intravenous glucose tolerance test. the estimate of insulin resistance obtained by homeostasis model assessment correlated with estimates obtained by use of the euglycaemic clamp (rs = 0.88  p < 0.0001)  the fasting insulin concentration (rs = 0.81  p < 0.0001)  and the hyperglycaemic clamp  (rs = 0.69  p < 0.01). there was no correlation with any aspect of insulin-receptor binding. the estimate of deficient β-cell function obtained by homeostasis model assessment correlated with that derived using the hyperglycaemic clamp (rs = 0.61  p < 0.01) and with the estimate from the intravenous glucose tolerance test (rs = 0.64  p < 0.05). the low precision of the estimates from the model (coefficients of variation: 31% for insulin resistance and 32% for β-cell deficit) limits its use  but the correlation of the model's estimates with patient data accords with the hypothesis that basal glucose and insulin interactions are largely determined by a simple feed back loop.
3665,distinct memory cd4+ t cells with commitment to t follicular helper- and t helper 1-cell lineages are generated after acute viral infection.,cd4(+) t follicular helper (tfh) cells provide the required signals to b cells for germinal center reactions that are necessary for long-lived antibody responses. however  it remains unclear whether there are cd4(+) memory t cells committed to the tfh cell lineage after antigen clearance. by using adoptive transfer of antigen-specific memory cd4(+) t cell subpopulations in the lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus infection model  we found that there are distinct memory cd4(+) t cell populations with commitment to either tfh- or th1-cell lineages. our conclusions are based on gene expression profiles  epigenetic studies  and phenotypic and functional analyses. our findings indicate that cd4(+) memory t cells "remember" their previous effector lineage after antigen clearance  being poised to reacquire their lineage-specific effector functions upon antigen reencounter. these findings have important implications for rational vaccine design  where improving the generation and engagement of memory tfh cells could be used to enhance vaccine-induced protective immunity.
3667,rate and molecular spectrum of spontaneous mutations in the bacterium escherichia coli as determined by whole-genome sequencing.,knowledge of the rate and nature of spontaneous mutation is fundamental to understanding evolutionary and molecular processes. in this report  we analyze spontaneous mutations accumulated over thousands of generations by wild-type escherichia coli and a derivative defective in mismatch repair (mmr)  the primary pathway for correcting replication errors. the major conclusions are (i) the mutation rate of a wild-type e. coli strain is ~1 × 10(-3) per genome per generation; (ii) mutations in the wild-type strain have the expected mutational bias for g:c > a:t mutations  but the bias changes to a:t > g:c mutations in the absence of mmr; (iii) during replication  a:t > g:c transitions preferentially occur with a templating the lagging strand and t templating the leading strand  whereas g:c > a:t transitions preferentially occur with c templating the lagging strand and g templating the leading strand; (iv) there is a strong bias for transition mutations to occur at 5'apc3'/3'tpg5' sites (where bases 5'a and 3't are mutated) and  to a lesser extent  at 5'gpc3'/3'cpg5' sites (where bases 5'g and 3'c are mutated); (v) although the rate of small (≤4 nt) insertions and deletions is high at repeat sequences  these events occur at only 1/10th the genomic rate of base-pair substitutions. mmr activity is genetically regulated  and bacteria isolated from nature often lack mmr capacity  suggesting that modulation of mmr can be adaptive. thus  comparing results from the wild-type and mmr-defective strains may lead to a deeper understanding of factors that determine mutation rates and spectra  how these factors may differ among organisms  and how they may be shaped by environmental conditions.
3669,do physicians follow systemic treatment and funding policy guidelines?,background the use of bisphosphonates for the prevention of skeletal related events in women with bone metastases from breast cancer is well established. we undertook an evaluation of bisphosphonate use in clinical practice in three canadian cancer centres. in addition we assessed whether or not physicians at these centres are following their local treatment guidelines and funding policies. methods charts and electronic files of patients who had received either clodronate or pamidronate at any time between january 2000 and december 2001 at three canadian cancer centres were retrospectively reviewed. results there has been a marked improvement in the time between the diagnosis of bone metastases and the commencement of bisphosphonates from a median of 155 days in 1998 to 24 days in 2001. however  despite a local funding policy requiring that oral clodronate be the first bisphosphonate used  this was the case in only 67% of patients. in addition  despite one centre's guidelines recommending that bisphosphonates be stopped once the patient was progressing  90% of their patients remained on bisphosphonates until they died. conclusions a considerable amount of effort is spent on the creation of "evidence based" treatment guidelines. funding agencies develop policies based on these treatment guidelines  but often funding is more restrictive than the treatment guideline would suggest. it is clear from this review that physicians still appear to manage a substantial proportion of patients outside of funding policies  but within evidence based recommendations. therefore  a need exists for either the creation of guidelines and policies that physicians will follow or the implementation of methods to ensure that restrictive policies are actually followed.
3671,exercise capacity and body mass as predictors of mortality among male veterans with type 2 diabetes.,objective to demonstrate the relation of exercise capacity and bmi to mortality in a population of male veterans with type 2 diabetes. research design and methods after excluding two underweight patients (bmi <18.5 kg/m2)  the study population comprised 831 consecutive patients with type 2 diabetes (mean age 61 +/- 9 years) referred for exercise testing for clinical reasons between 1995 and 2006. exercise capacity was determined from a maximal exercise test and measured in metabolic equivalents (mets). patients were classified both according to bmi category (18.5-24.9  25.0-29.9  and > or =30 kg/m2) and by exercise capacity (<5.0 or > or =5.0 maximal mets). the association among exercise capacity  bmi  other clinical variables  and all-cause mortality was assessed by cox proportional hazards. study participants were followed for mortality up to 30 june 2006. results during a mean follow-up of 4.8 +/- 3.0 years  112 patients died  for an average annual mortality rate of 2.2%. each 1-met increase in exercise capacity conferred a 10% survival benefit (hazard ratio 0.90 [95% ci 0.82-0.98]; p = 0.01)  but bmi was not significantly associated with mortality. after adjustment for age  ethnicity  examination year  bmi  presence of cardiovascular disease (cvd)  and cvd risk factors  diabetic patients achieving <5 maximal mets were 70% more likely to die (1.70 [1.13-2.54]) than those achieving > or =5 maximal mets. conclusions there was a strong inverse association between exercise capacity and mortality in this cohort of men with documented diabetes  and this relationship was independent of bmi.
3673,a chikungunya fever vaccine utilizing an insect-specific virus platform,traditionally  vaccine development involves tradeoffs between immunogenicity and safety. live-attenuated vaccines typically offer rapid and durable immunity but have reduced safety when compared to inactivated vaccines. in contrast  the inability of inactivated vaccines to replicate enhances safety at the expense of immunogenicity  often necessitating multiple doses and boosters. to overcome these tradeoffs  we developed the insect-specific alphavirus  eilat virus (eilv)  as a vaccine platform. to address the chikungunya fever (chikf) pandemic  we used an eilv cdna clone to design a chimeric virus containing the chikungunya virus (chikv) structural proteins. the recombinant eilv/chikv was structurally identical at 10 å to wild-type chikv  as determined by single-particle cryo-electron microscopy  and it mimicked the early stages of chikv replication in vertebrate cells from attachment and entry to viral rna delivery. yet the recombinant virus remained completely defective for productive replication  providing a high degree of safety. a single dose of eilv/chikv produced in mosquito cells elicited rapid (within 4 d) and long-lasting (>290 d) neutralizing antibodies that provided complete protection in two different mouse models. in nonhuman primates  eilv/chikv elicited rapid and robust immunity that protected against viremia and telemetrically monitored fever. our eilv platform represents the first structurally native application of an insect-specific virus in preclinical vaccine development and highlights the potential application of such viruses in vaccinology.
3675,purification  characterization  and sequence analysis of a potential virulence factor from porphyromonas gingivalis  peptidylarginine deiminase.,the initiation and progression of adult-onset periodontitis has been associated with infection of the gingival sulcus by porphyromonas gingivalis. this organism utilizes a multitude of virulence factors to evade host defenses as it establishes itself as one of the predominant pathogens in periodontal pockets. a feature common to many other oral pathogens is the production of ammonia due to its protective effect during acidic cleansing cycles in the mouth. additionally  ammonia production by p. gingivalis has been proposed as a virulence factor due to its negative effects on neutrophil function. in this study  we describe the first purification of a peptidylarginine deiminase (pad) from a prokaryote. pad exhibits biochemical characteristics and properties that suggest that it may be a virulence agent. pad deiminates the guanidino group of carboxyl-terminal arginine residues on a variety of peptides  including the vasoregulatory peptide-hormone bradykinin  to yield ammonia and a citrulline residue. the soluble protein has an apparent mass of 46 kda  while the dna sequence predicts a full-length protein of 61.7 kda. pad is optimally active at 55 degrees c  stable at low ph  and shows the greatest activity above ph 9.0. interestingly  in the presence of stabilizing factors  pad is resistant to limited proteolysis and retains significant activity after short-term boiling. we propose that pad  acting in concert with arginine-specific proteinases from p. gingivalis  promotes the growth of the pathogen in the periodontal pocket  initially by enhancing its survivability and then by assisting the organism in its circumvention of host humoral defenses.
3677,hepatitis c and human immunodeficiency virus infection.,in the united states  an estimated 200 000 persons are infected with both hepatitis c virus (hcv) and human immunodeficiency virus (hiv). as the lives of hiv-infected persons have been prolonged by use of highly active antiretroviral therapy  liver disease has emerged as an important  and in some settings  the leading cause of morbidity and mortality. human immunodeficiency virus infection appears to adversely affect all stages of hepatitis c infection  leading to increased viral persistence and accelerated progression of hcv-related liver disease. in turn  hepatitis c may affect the management of hiv infection  increasing the incidence of liver toxicity caused by antiretroviral medications. the medical management of hepatitis c in hiv-infected persons remains controversial  in part because of the complexity of both infections and potential drug interactions  but chiefly because there is so little published information. nonetheless  the burden of liver disease is too high to delay management of hiv/hcv-coinfected persons while awaiting better data. instead  the management of hepatitis c today must be based on data generated on persons without hiv and an understanding of both infections. properly designed studies of therapy in hiv/hcv-coinfected persons are needed to help guide management of these patients in the future.
3679,frozen robust multiarray analysis (frma).,robust multiarray analysis (rma) is the most widely used preprocessing algorithm for affymetrix and nimblegen gene expression microarrays. rma performs background correction  normalization  and summarization in a modular way. the last 2 steps require multiple arrays to be analyzed simultaneously. the ability to borrow information across samples provides rma various advantages. for example  the summarization step fits a parametric model that accounts for probe effects  assumed to be fixed across arrays  and improves outlier detection. residuals  obtained from the fitted model  permit the creation of useful quality metrics. however  the dependence on multiple arrays has 2 drawbacks: (1) rma cannot be used in clinical settings where samples must be processed individually or in small batches and (2) data sets preprocessed separately are not comparable. we propose a preprocessing algorithm  frozen rma (frma)  which allows one to analyze microarrays individually or in small batches and then combine the data for analysis. this is accomplished by utilizing information from the large publicly available microarray databases. in particular  estimates of probe-specific effects and variances are precomputed and frozen. then  with new data sets  these are used in concert with information from the new arrays to normalize and summarize the data. we find that frma is comparable to rma when the data are analyzed as a single batch and outperforms rma when analyzing multiple batches. the methods described here are implemented in the r package frma and are currently available for download from the software section of http://rafalab.jhsph.edu.
3681,unmet needs mediate the relationship between symptoms and quality of life in breast cancer survivors,this study aimed to compare the symptoms  unmet needs  and qol reported by women at 6 months to <2 years and 2 to 5 years following surgery and adjuvant treatment for breast cancer. it also evaluated the relationships among symptoms  unmet needs  and qol using structural equation modeling. in this study  113 and 137 survivors following breast cancer treatment 6 months to <2 years and 2 to 5 years  respectively  completed the memorial symptom assessment scale  the supportive care needs survey-34  and the medical outcomes study 12-item short form health survey version 2.0 during their medical follow-up. the mean numbers of symptoms and unmet needs were 5.43 and 3.0  respectively  for survivors at <2 years  and 5.24 and 2.42  respectively  for survivors at 2 to 5 years following treatment. the most common reported symptoms were related primarily to physical domains. no significant differences were found between the two survivor groups on the msas scores. survivors at <2 years reported significantly higher scores in psychological and health care system/information needs (p < 0.01)  and lower composite scores in physical and mental qol (p < 0.05) than those at 2 to 5 years post-treatment. significant direct and indirect effects were found of symptom burden through unmet needs on survivors’ physical and mental qol after adjustment for survival time  and the models showed a good fit. results suggest that breast cancer survivors continue to endure many symptoms independent of the survivorship period. the unmet needs mediate the relationship between symptom burden and survivors’ qol.
3683,specific sites in the c terminus of ctcf interact with the sa2 subunit of the cohesin complex and are required for cohesin-dependent insulation activity.,recent studies have shown that the protein ctcf  which plays an important role in insulation and in large-scale organization of chromatin within the eukaryotic nucleus  depends for both activities on recruitment of the cohesin complex. we show here that the interaction of ctcf with the cohesin complex involves direct contacts between the cohesin subunit sa2 and specific regions of the c-terminal tail of ctcf. all other cohesin components are recruited through their interaction with sa2. expression in vivo of ctcf mutants lacking the c-terminal domain  or with mutations at sites within it required for sa2 binding  disrupts the normal expression profile of the imprinted genes igf2-h19 and also results in a loss of insulation activity. taken together  our results demonstrate that specific sites on the c terminus of ctcf are essential for cohesin binding and insulator function. the only direct interaction between ctcf and cohesin involves contact with sa2  which is external to the cohesin ring. this suggests that in recruiting cohesin to ctcf  sa2 could bind first and the ring could assemble subsequently.
3685,relation between renal function within the normal range and central and peripheral arterial stiffness in hypertension.,chronic kidney disease is accompanied by increased large-artery stiffness  but the relation between glomerular filtration rate within the reference range and central or peripheral arterial stiffness has been understudied. the link between renal function and arterial stiffness was assessed in 305 patients with never-treated essential hypertension (men: 58%; age: 48+/-11 years  blood pressure: 151/95+/-20/11 mm hg)  free from overt cardiovascular disease and with serum creatinine values <1.4 mg/dl (men) and <1.2 mg/dl (women)  who underwent noninvasive aortic and upper-limb pulse wave velocity (pwv) determination. aortic pwv was strongly related to age (r=0.55; p<0.001)  whereas upper-limb pwv had a weaker nonlinear relation with age (beta=1.392; p<0.001 for age; beta=-1.312; p<0.001 for age squared) and a weak relation with aortic pwv (r=0.22; p<0.001). glomerular filtration rate (gfr)  estimated according to the mayo clinic equation for healthy subjects  was inversely correlated with large-artery stiffness  as assessed by aortic pwv (r=-0.34; p<0.001)  and with peripheral artery stiffness  as assessed by upper-limb pwv (r=-0.25; p<0.001). in a multivariate linear regression  aortic pwv was independently predicted by age (beta=0.48; p<0.001)  mean arterial pressure (beta=0.14; p=0.013)  and gfr (beta=-0.13  p=0.029). upper-limb pwv was predicted by gfr (beta=-0.24; p<0.001) and mean arterial pressure (beta=0.20; p<0.001). we conclude that  in hypertensive patients with normal renal function  an inverse relationship exists between gfr and stiffness of both central elastic and peripheral muscular arteries. these relations are in part independent from the effect of several confounders  including age  sex  and blood pressure values.
3687,topographic mapping of vmh → arcuate nucleus microcircuits and their reorganization by fasting,in the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus (arc)  pro-opiomelanocortin (pomc) neurons inhibit feeding and neuropeptide-y (npy) neurons stimulate feeding. we tested whether neurons in the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus (vmh)  a known satiety center  activate anorexigenic neuronal pathways in the arc by projecting either excitatory synaptic inputs to pomc neurons and/or inhibitory inputs to npy neurons. using laser scanning photostimulation in brain slices from transgenic mice  we found that pomc and npy neurons  which are interspersed in the arc  are nevertheless regulated by anatomically distinct synaptic inputs. pomc neurons received strong excitatory input from the medial vmh (mvmh)  whereas npy neurons did not and  instead  received weak inhibitory input only from within the arc. the strength of the excitatory input from the mvmh to pomc neurons was diminished by fasting. these data identify a new molecularly defined circuit that is dynamically regulated by nutritional state in a manner consistent with the known role of the vmh as a satiety center.
3689,aff1 and aff4 differentially regulate the osteogenic differentiation of human mscs,aff1 and aff4 belong to the aff (af4/fmr2) family of proteins  which function as scaffolding proteins linking two different transcription elongation factors  positive elongation factor b (p-tefb) and ell1/2  in super elongation complexes (secs). both aff1 and aff4 regulate gene transcription through elongation and chromatin remodeling. however  their function in the osteogenic differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells (mscs) is unknown. in this study  we show that small interfering rna (sirna)-mediated depletion of aff1 in human mscs leads to increased alkaline phosphatase (alp) activity  enhanced mineralization and upregulated expression of osteogenic-related genes. on the contrary  depletion of aff4 significantly inhibits the osteogenic potential of mscs. in addition  we confirm that overexpression of aff1 and aff4 differentially affects osteogenic differentiation in vitro and msc-mediated bone formation in vivo. mechanistically  we find that aff1 regulates the expression of dkk1 via binding to its promoter region. depletion of dkk1 in ha-aff1-overexpressing mscs abrogates the impairment of osteogenic differentiation. moreover  we detect that aff4 is enriched in the promoter region of id1. aff4 knockdown blunts the bre luciferase activity  sp7 expression and alp activity induced by bmp2 treatment. in conclusion  our data indicate that aff1 and aff4 differentially regulate the osteogenic differentiation of human mscs.
3691,loss of lamin b1 results in prolongation of s phase and decondensation of chromosome territories.,nuclear lamin b1 (lmnb1) constitutes one of the major structural proteins in the lamina mesh. we silenced the expression of lmnb1 by rna interference in the colon cancer cell line dld-1 and showed a dramatic redistribution of h3k27me3 from the periphery to a more homogeneous nuclear dispersion. in addition  we observed telomere attrition and an increased frequency of micronuclei and nuclear blebs. by 3d-fish analyses  we demonstrated that the volume and surface of chromosome territories were significantly larger in lmnb1-depleted cells  suggesting that lmnb1 is required to maintain chromatin condensation in interphase nuclei. these changes led to a prolonged s phase due to activation of chk1. finally  silencing of lmnb1 resulted in extensive changes in alternative splicing of multiple genes and in a higher number of enlarged nuclear speckles. taken together  our results suggest a mechanistic role of the nuclear lamina in the organization of chromosome territories  maintenance of genome integrity and proper gene splicing.
3693,identification of a human hla-e-restricted cd8+ t cell subset in volunteers immunized with salmonella enterica serovar typhi strain ty21a typhoid vaccine.,our previous studies in volunteers immunized with salmonella enterica serovar typhi (s. typhi) have suggested an important role for cd8+ t cells in host defense. in this study we describe a novel subset of nonclassical human hla-e-restricted s. typhi-specific cd8+ t cells derived from pbmc of ty21a typhoid vaccinees. cd3+cd8+cd4-cd56- t cells effectively killed s. typhi-infected targets regardless of whether they share classical hla class i molecules with them  by a fas-independent  granule-dependent mechanism  as evidenced by induction of granzyme b release and the blocking effects of concanamycin and strontium ions. the expression of hla-e ags  but not cd1-a  -b  or -c  on the membrane of s. typhi-infected targets rendered them susceptible to lysis. moreover  anti-hla-e abs partially blocked these responses. we also demonstrated that presentation of s. typhi ags via hla-e could stimulate ifn-gamma production. increases in the net frequency of ifn-gamma spot-forming cells were observed in the presence of targets coated with peptides that contain s. typhi groel hla-e binding motifs. these results demonstrate that hla-e binds nonamer peptides derived from bacterial proteins and trigger cd8+-mediated lysis and ifn-gamma production when exposed to infected targets  raising the possibility that this novel effector mechanism might contribute to host defense against intracellular bacterial infections.
3695,interleukin-18 null mutation increases weight and food intake and reduces energy expenditure and lipid substrate utilization in high-fat diet fed mice,objective the proinflammatory cytokine interleukin-18 (il-18) putatively modulates food intake and energy metabolism  but the effects of il-18 in high-fat diet fed animals are unknown. whether il-18 alters basal metabolic rate or metabolic processes of living is unknown. here  we tested the hypothesis that il-18 modulates weight gain  energy intake  whole-body energy expenditure  and utilization of lipid as a fuel substrate in high-fat diet fed mice. methods food intake  whole-body metabolism  and motor activity of il-18 knockout mice were compared to those of wildtype littermates; anorectic effects of intracerebroventricular il-18 administration were compared between il-18 receptor knockout  il-18/il-18r knockout and wildtype mice. results chow-reared il-18 knockout mice were overweight at 6 months of age and then gained excess weight on both low-fat and high-fat diets  ate more high-fat diet  and showed reduced whole-body energy expenditure and increased respiratory exchange ratios. reductions in energy expenditure of il-18 knockout mice were seen across fasting vs. feeding conditions  low- vs. high-fat diets  high vs. low levels of physical activity and times of day  suggesting actions on basal metabolic rate. the circadian amplitude of energy expenditure  but not respiratory exchange ratio  food intake  or motor activity  also was blunted in il-18 knockout mice. central il-18 administration reduced high-fat diet intake in wildtype mice  but not in mice lacking the il-18 receptor. conclusion the loss-of-function results support the hypothesis that endogenous il-18 suppresses appetite and promote energy expenditure and lipid fuel substrate utilization not only during sickness  but also in healthy adults consuming high-fat diets.
3697,rodent models in bone-related research: the relevance of calvarial defects in the assessment of bone regeneration strategies.,in vivo research with animal models has been a preferred experimental system in bone-related biomedical research since  by approximation  it allows relevant data gathering regarding physiological and pathological conditions that could be of use to establish more effective clinical interventions. animal models  and more specifically rodent models  have been extensively used and have contributed greatly to the development and establishment of a wide range of translational approaches aiming to regenerate the bone tissue. in this regard  the calvarial defect model has found great application in basic and applied research  nonetheless the controversial rationalization for the use of critical size defects - defects that are unable to report spontaneous healing - or subcritical size defects in the proposed applications. accordingly  this work aims to review the advantages and limitations of the use of rodent models in biomedical bone-related research  emphasizing the problematic issues of the use of calvarial critical and subcritical size defects. additionally  surgical protocols for the establishment of both defects in rat calvarial bone  as well as the description and exemplification of the most frequently used techniques to access the bone tissue repair  are portrayed.
3699,electron microscopic studies of macrophages in early human yolk sacs.,distribution and fine structure of macrophages were studied in 10 human embryos in the 6th and 7th week of gestation  5.5 to 12 mm in crown-rump length. the yolk sac macrophages were found in the extravascular mesenchymal tissues and intravascular spaces long before the first appearance of bone marrow and lymphatic tissues in the embryos. in addition to the macrophages  the fibroblastic cells and the cells of erythropoietic series were also present in the extravascular space. the macrophages showed a variety of cellular structures suggesting transition from immature cell type with no heterophagolysosomes to mature cell type in phagocytosis. the mature macrophages avidly phagocytized the primitive erythroblasts and occasionally platelets. they were positively stained for lysosomal enzymes and were characterized by numerous pleomorphic heterophagolysosomes which exhibited various stages of digestion of phagocytized blood cells. the origin of intravascular macrophages may be in either migrated extravascular macrophages or phagocytic endothelial cells. the phagocytosis and degradation of erythroblasts appear to be one of the main functions of yolk sac macrophages. the presence of the macrophages in mitosis indicates their proliferation in situ.
3701,nitrite infusions to prevent delayed cerebral vasospasm in a primate model of subarachnoid hemorrhage.,context delayed cerebral vasospasm causes permanent neurological deficits or death in at least 15% of patients following otherwise successful treatment for ruptured intracranial aneurysm. decreased bioavailability of nitric oxide has been associated with the development of cerebral vasospasm. objective to determine whether infusions of nitrite will prevent delayed cerebral vasospasm. design  setting  and subjects a total of 14 anesthetized cynomolgus monkeys had an autologous blood clot placed around the right middle cerebral artery. cerebral arteriography was performed before clot placement and on days 7 and 14 to assess vasospasm. the study was conducted from august 2003 to february 2004. interventions a 90-mg sodium nitrite intravenous solution infused over 24 hours plus a 45-mg sodium nitrite bolus daily (n = 3); a 180-mg sodium nitrite intravenous solution infused over 24 hours (n = 3); or a control saline solution infusion (n = 8). each was infused continuously for 14 days. main outcome measures nitrite  s-nitrosothiol  and methemoglobin levels in blood and cerebrospinal fluid and degree of arteriographic vasospasm. results in control monkeys  mean (sd) cerebrospinal fluid nitrite levels decreased from 3.1 (1.5) micromol/l to 0.4 (0.1) micromol/l at day 7 and to 0.4 (0.4) micromol/l at day 14 (p = .03). all 8 control monkeys developed significant vasospasm of the right middle cerebral artery  which was complicated by stroke and death in 1 animal. sodium nitrite infusions increased the nitrite and methemoglobin levels (<2.1% of total hemoglobin) in the blood and cerebrospinal fluid without evoking systemic hypotension. nitrite infusion prevented development of vasospasm (no animals developed significant vasospasm; mean [sd] reduction in right middle cerebral artery area on day 7 after subarachnoid hemorrhage of 8% [9%] in nitrite-treated monkeys vs 47% [5%] in saline-treated controls; p<.001). there was a negative correlation between the concentration of nitrite in cerebrospinal fluid and the degree of cerebral vasospasm (p<.001). pharmacological effects of nitrite infusion were also associated with the formation of s-nitrosothiol in cerebrospinal fluid. there was no clinical or pathological evidence of nitrite toxicity. conclusion subacute sodium nitrite infusions prevented delayed cerebral vasospasm in a primate model of subarachnoid hemorrhage.
3703,a tumor necrosis factor-α–mediated pathway promoting autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease,autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (adpkd) is caused by heterozygous mutations in either pkd1 or pkd2  genes that encode polycystin-1 and polycystin-2  respectively. we show here that tumor necrosis factor-α (tnf-α)  an inflammatory cytokine present in the cystic fluid of humans with adpkd  disrupts the localization of polycystin-2 to the plasma membrane and primary cilia through a scaffold protein  fip2  which is induced by tnf-α. treatment of mouse embryonic kidney organ cultures with tnf-α resulted in formation of cysts  and this effect was exacerbated in the pkd2+/− kidneys. tnf-α also stimulated cyst formation in vivo in pkd2+/− mice. in contrast  treatment of pkd2+/− mice with the tnf-α inhibitor etanercept prevented cyst formation. these data reveal a pathway connecting tnf-α signaling  polycystins and cystogenesis  the activation of which may reduce functional polycystin-2 below a critical threshold  precipitating the adpkd cellular phenotype.
3705,hemoperfusion-hemodialysis ineffective for paraquat removal in life-threatening poisoning?,we report on a patient treated with hemoperfusion-hemodialysis (hp-hd) for severe paraquat poisoning. this procedure was adopted since the combination of adsorption and dialysis may improve overall drug removal. on admission blood paraquat was 15.8 micrograms/ml. he received conventional treatment and combined hp-hd which started within 3 hours after ingestion of the chemical and lasted 5 hours. blood samples were obtained during and after hp-hd. the samples during hp-hd were taken before the charcoal column  between the charcoal column and the artificial kidney and after the artificial kidney. blood clearances of paraquat were 116 +/- 32 ml/min (n=6) for the charcoal column (hp)  90 +/- 54 ml/min (n=6) for the artificial kidney (hd) and 151 +/- 37 ml/min (n=6) for the combined systems (hp-hd). after hp-hd a limited rebound of blood paraquat level was seen. one day after admission renal and hepatic failure had developed  and the patient died after 5 days. tissue paraquat levels (microgram/g wet tissue) were: skeletal muscle 9.4  pancreas 6.0  prostate 5.6  thyroid 4.2  lungs 4.0  bone marrow 4.0  kidney 3.1  spleen 2.9  adrenal 2.9  heart 2.8  liver 2.3  stomach and testis below 1.0. measurements of blood levels demonstrated the efficient clearances of paraquat with hp-hd from the central (plasma) compartment. however  the present results confirmed those previously reported which suggest that the efficiency of short hp-hd in treating severe paraquat poisoning is questionable since paraquat levels in the peripheral (tissue) compartment remain elevated.
3707,massive activation of archaeal defense genes during viral infection.,archaeal viruses display unusually high genetic and morphological diversity. studies of these viruses proved to be instrumental for the expansion of knowledge on viral diversity and evolution. the sulfolobus islandicus rod-shaped virus 2 (sirv2) is a model to study virus-host interactions in archaea. it is a lytic virus that exploits a unique egress mechanism based on the formation of remarkable pyramidal structures on the host cell envelope. using whole-transcriptome sequencing  we present here a global map defining host and viral gene expression during the infection cycle of sirv2 in its hyperthermophilic host s. islandicus lal14/1. this information was used  in combination with a yeast two-hybrid analysis of sirv2 protein interactions  to advance current understanding of viral gene functions. as a consequence of sirv2 infection  transcription of more than one-third of s. islandicus genes was differentially regulated. while expression of genes involved in cell division decreased  those genes playing a role in antiviral defense were activated on a large scale. expression of genes belonging to toxin-antitoxin and clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeat (crispr)-cas systems was specifically pronounced. the observed different degree of activation of various crispr-cas systems highlights the specialized functions they perform. the information on individual gene expression and activation of antiviral defense systems is expected to aid future studies aimed at detailed understanding of the functions and interplay of these systems in vivo.
3709,relation of plasma leptin concentrations to sex  body fat  dietary intake  and peak oxygen uptake in young adult women and men.,the purpose of this study was to examine the relation of leptin to metabolic and dietary factors in college-age adults. young adult women and men (n = 32) were recruited and underwent testing for measurement of body mass index  body composition  peak oxygen consumption (vo2peak)  dietary intake  and plasma levels of leptin and insulin. ln leptin was significantly greater for women than for men (2.1 versus 1.2 ng/ml  respectively). this difference remained significant even after adjusting ln leptin for fat mass and fat-free mass as covariates in separate analyses. vo2peak was higher for men than for women and this remained significant after adjustment for differences in fat-free mass and total body mass. significant correlations were found between ln leptin and indicators of fat mass in women and men  with higher correlations for similar variables observed in men (r = 0.548  0.674  and 0.732 for body mass index  percentage of body fat  and fat mass [kg] for women  respectively  and r = 0.740  0.888  0.858 for body mass index  percentage of body fat  and fat mass [kg] for men  respectively). ln leptin showed a significant inverse relationship with vo2peak (r = -0.751) in men only. after adjusting ln leptin for body fat mass using partial correlations  ln leptin was not significantly associated with any of the measured variables. alternatively  after normalization of ln leptin using fat mass as the divisor  a less adequate statistical analysis method  men showed statistical significant correlations between ln leptin and dietary intake and vo2peak. although plasma leptin values were higher in women  stronger associations were evident for men than for women between leptin and metabolic and dietary factors.
3711,kruppel-like factor 4 is essential for inflammatory monocyte differentiation in vivo.,several members of the kruppel-like factor (klf) family of transcription factors play important roles in differentiation  survival  and trafficking of blood and immune cell types. we demonstrate in this study that hematopoietic cells from klf4(-/-) fetal livers (fl) contained normal numbers of functional hematopoietic progenitor cells  were radioprotective  and performed as well as klf4(+/+) cells in competitive repopulation assays. however  hematopoietic "klf4(-/-) chimeras" generated by transplantation of klf4(-/-) fetal livers cells into lethally irradiated wild-type mice completely lacked circulating inflammatory (cd115(+)gr1(+)) monocytes  and had reduced numbers of resident (cd115(+)gr1(-)) monocytes. although the numbers and function of peritoneal macrophages were normal in klf4(-/-) chimeras  bone marrow monocytic cells from klf4(-/-) chimeras expressed lower levels of key trafficking molecules and were more apoptotic. thus  our in vivo loss-of-function studies demonstrate that klf4  previously shown to mediate proinflammatory signaling in human macrophages in vitro  is essential for differentiation of mouse inflammatory monocytes  and is involved in the differentiation of resident monocytes. in addition  inducible expression of klf4 in the hl60 human acute myeloid leukemia cell line stimulated monocytic differentiation and enhanced 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate induced macrophage differentiation  but blocked all-trans-retinoic acid induced granulocytic differentiation of hl60 cells. the inflammation-selective effects of loss-of-klf4 and the gain-of-klf4-induced monocytic differentiation in hl60 cells identify klf4 as a key regulator of monocytic differentiation and a potential target for translational immune modulation.
3713,specific hdv rna-templated transcription by pol ii in vitro.,rna polymerase ii is implicated in the rna-templated rna synthesis during replication of viroids and hepatitis delta virus (hdv); however  neither the rna template nor protein factor requirements for this process are well defined. we have developed an in vitro transcription system based on hela cell nuclear extract (ne)  in which a segment of antigenomic rna corresponding to the left-hand tip region of the hdv rod-like structure serves as a template for efficient and highly specific rna synthesis. accumulation of the unique rna product is highly sensitive to alpha-amanitin in hela ne and only partially sensitive to this drug in ne from pmg cells that contain an allele of the alpha-amanitin-resistant subunit of pol ii  strongly suggesting pol ii involvement in this reaction. detailed analysis of the rna product revealed that it represents a chimeric molecule composed of a newly synthesized transcript covalently attached to the 5' half of the rna template. selection of the start site for transcription is remarkably specific and depends on the secondary structure of the rna template  rather than on its primary sequence. some features of this reaction resemble the rna cleavage-extension process observed for pol ii-arrested complexes in vitro. a possible involvement of the described reaction in hdv replication is discussed.
3715,maternal and perinatal outcome in severe pregnancy-related liver disease.,acute fatty liver of pregnancy (aflp) and the syndrome of hemolysis  elevated liver enzyme levels  and low platelet count (hellp) are rare but major disorders of the third trimester of pregnancy. over a 10-year period  46 women (median age  30 years; range  17-41 years) developed hepatic dysfunction severe enough to require transfer to our liver failure unit. three quarters of the women were nulliparous  and 5 had twin pregnancies; the median gestational age was 35 weeks (range  24-40 weeks). at admission  32 patients (70%) were preeclamptic and 21 (46%) were encephalopathic and/or ventilated. thirty-two patients (70%) had clinical features and laboratory values consistent with aflp  and 7 (15%) had hellp syndrome. one patient had preeclamptic liver rupture requiring liver transplantation. in 6 other patients  causes of severe liver dysfunction unrelated to pregnancy were found. infectious complications occurred in 17 of the patients with aflp (53%) and in 2 of those with hellp syndrome (29%). major intra-abdominal bleeding occurred in 12 women (10 with aflp)  9 of whom required laparotomies for clot evacuation. four patients with aflp (12.5%) had a fatal outcome  with a corresponding perinatal mortality rate of 9%. there were no maternal or perinatal deaths associated with hellp syndrome. in contrast to results of many previous studies  the results of this large series suggest a relatively favorable maternal and perinatal outcome in severe aflp and hellp syndrome. further improvements in outcome are likely to be achieved through the prevention of the bleeding and infectious complications associated with these disorders.
3717,large-scale gene function analysis with the panther classification system,the panther (protein annotation through evolutionary relationship) classification system (http://www.pantherdb.org/) is a comprehensive system that combines gene function  ontology  pathways and statistical analysis tools that enable biologists to analyze large-scale  genome-wide data from sequencing  proteomics or gene expression experiments. the system is built with 82 complete genomes organized into gene families and subfamilies  and their evolutionary relationships are captured in phylogenetic trees  multiple sequence alignments and statistical models (hidden markov models or hmms). genes are classified according to their function in several different ways: families and subfamilies are annotated with ontology terms (gene ontology (go) and panther protein class)  and sequences are assigned to panther pathways. the panther website includes a suite of tools that enable users to browse and query gene functions  and to analyze large-scale experimental data with a number of statistical tests. it is widely used by bench scientists  bioinformaticians  computer scientists and systems biologists. in the 2013 release of panther (v.8.0)  in addition to an update of the data content  we redesigned the website interface to improve both user experience and the system's analytical capability. this protocol provides a detailed description of how to analyze genome-wide experimental data with the panther classification system.
3719,fgf-2 enhances intestinal stem cell survival and its expression is induced after radiation injury.,fibroblast growth factors (fgfs) have mitogenic activity toward a wide variety of cells of mesenchymal  neuronal  and epithelial origin and regulate events in normal embryonic development  angiogenesis  wound repair  and neoplasia. fgf-2 is expressed in many normal adult tissues and can regulate migration and replication of intestinal epithelial cells in culture. however  little is known about the effects of fgf-2 on intestinal epithelial stem cells during either normal epithelial renewal or regeneration of a functional epithelium after injury. in this study  we investigated the expression of fgf-2 in the mouse small intestine after irradiation and determined the effect of exogenous fgf-2 on crypt stem cell survival after radiation injury. expression of fgf-2 mrna and protein began to increase at 12 h after gamma-irradiation  and peak levels were observed from 48 to 120 h after irradiation. at all times after irradiation  the higher molecular mass isoform ( approximately 24 kda) of fgf-2 was the predominant form expressed in the small intestine. immunohistochemical analysis of fgf-2 expression after radiation injury demonstrated that fgf-2 was predominantly found in the mesenchyme surrounding regenerating crypts. exogenous recombinant human fgf-2 (rhfgf-2) markedly enhanced crypt stem cell survival when given before irradiation. we conclude that expression of fgf-2 is induced by radiation injury and that rhfgf-2 can enhance crypt stem cell survival after subsequent injury.
3721,nucleosome stability mediated by histone variants h3.3 and h2a.z.,nucleosomes containing the histone variant h3.3 tend to be clustered in vivo in the neighborhood of transcriptionally active genes and over regulatory elements. it has not been clear  however  whether h3.3-containing nucleosomes possess unique properties that would affect transcription. we report here that h3.3 nucleosomes isolated from vertebrates  regardless of whether they are partnered with h2a or h2a.z  are unusually sensitive to salt-dependent disruption  losing h2a/h2b or h2a.z/h2b dimers. immunoprecipitation studies of nucleosome core particles (ncps) show that ncps that contain both h3.3 and h2a.z are even less stable than ncps containing h3.3 and h2a. intriguingly  ncps containing h3 and h2a.z are at least as stable as h3/h2a ncps. these results establish an hierarchy of stabilities for native nucleosomes carrying different complements of variants  and suggest how h2a.z could play different roles depending on its partners within the ncp. they also are consistent with the idea that h3.3 plays an active role in maintaining accessible chromatin structures in enhancer regions and transcribed regions. consistent with this idea  promoters and enhancers at transcriptionally active genes and coding regions at highly expressed genes have nucleosomes that simultaneously carry both h3.3 and h2a.z  and should therefore be extremely sensitive to disruption.
3723,rapid progression of familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy: a multinational natural history study.,objectives to assess the association between severity of neuropathy and disease stage  and estimate the rate of neuropathy progression in a retrospective cross-sectional analysis of a multinational population of patients with familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy (fap). methods we characterize neuropathy severity and rate of progression in available patients with fap in france  the united states  portugal  and italy. neuropathy impairment scores (nis)  time from symptom onset to nis measurement  polyneuropathy disability (pnd) scores  fap disease stage  and manual grip strength data were collected. we estimated neuropathy progression using loess fit and gompertz fit models. results for the 283 patients studied (mean age  56.4 years)  intercountry genotypic variation in the transthyretin (ttr) mutation was observed  with the majority of patients in portugal (92%) having early-onset val30met-fap. there was also marked intercountry variation in pnd score  fap stage  and ttr stabilizer use. nis was associated with pnd score (nis 10 and 99 for scores i and iv  respectively; p < 0.0001) and fap stage (nis 14 and 99 for stages 1 and 3  respectively; p < 0.0001). in addition  there was an association between nis and ttr genotype. the estimated rate of nis progression for a population with a median nis of 32 was 14.3 points/year; the corresponding estimated rate for the modified nis+7 is 17.8 points/year. conclusions in a multinational population of patients with fap  rapid neuropathic progression is observed and the severity of neuropathy is associated with functional scales of locomotion.
3725,stromal p16 expression differentiates endometrial polyp from endometrial hyperplasia,endometrial polyps are very common benign endometrial lesions  but their pathogenesis is poorly understood  except for a few studies indicating the possibility of benign stromal neoplasm. although the histopathological diagnosis of endometrial polyp on a surgical specimen is straightforward  it is often difficult to differentiate endometrial polyp from endometrial hyperplasia on a biopsy or curettage specimen. presently  there is no immunohistochemical marker helpful in this differential diagnosis. in this study  we examined p16 expression in 35 endometrial polyps and 33 cases of endometrial hyperplasia that included 16 simple hyperplasias  14 complex atypical hyperplasias  and 3 complex hyperplasias without atypia. stromal p16 expression differed significantly between the two groups; it was seen in 31 (89 %) endometrial polyps  but in only 1 (3 %) endometrial hyperplasia. the percentage of p16-positive stromal cells ranged from 10 to 90 % (mean  47 %) and the positive cells tended to be distributed around glands. six cases of endometrial hyperplasia within an endometrial polyp were also examined and all cases showed stromal p16 expression. there was no difference in glandular p16 expression between endometrial polyps 33 (94 %) and hyperplasia 27 (82 %). the p16-immunoreactivity was mostly confined to metaplastic epithelial cells in both groups. stromal p16 expression might be a peculiar characteristic of endometrial polyp and constitute a useful marker for the diagnosis  especially in fragmented specimens from biopsy or curettage. stromal p16 expression might be a reflection of p16-induced cellular senescence  which has been documented in several benign mesenchymal neoplasms.
3727,antioxidant defenses in the rat placenta in late gestation: increased labyrinthine expression of superoxide dismutases  glutathione peroxidase 3  and uncoupling protein 21,placental oxidative stress plays a key role in the pathophysiology of placenta-related disorders  most notably preeclampsia (pe) and intrauterine growth restriction (iugr). oxidative stress occurs when accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ros) damages dna  proteins and lipids  an outcome that is limited by antioxidant enzymes; mitochondrial uncoupling protein 2 (ucp2) may also limit oxidative stress by reducing ros production. here we characterized placental antioxidant defenses during normal gestation and following glucocorticoid-induced iugr. placentas were collected on days 16 and 22 of normal rat pregnancy (term = day 23) and at day 22 after dexamethasone treatment from day 13. expression of several genes encoding antioxidant enzymes (sod1  sod2  sod3  cat  gpx3  txn1  txnrd1  txnrd2  and txnrd3) and ucp2 was measured by quantitative rt-pcr in the labyrinth (lz) and junctional zones (jz) of the placenta. expression of sod1 and ucp2 mrnas and the activity of xanthine oxidase  a source of ros  all increased from days 16 to 22 in both placental zones  whereas sod2 and gpx3 increased only in the rapidly growing lz. in contrast  sod3 and txnrd1 expression fell in the lz over this period  whereas total superoxide dismutase activity remained stable. dexamethasone treatment reduced fetal-placental growth and lz expression of ucp2 but increased jz expression of txn1. indices of placental oxidative damage (tbars  f2-isoprostanes  and 8-ohdg) did not change with gestational age or dexamethasone  indicative of adequate antioxidant protection. overall  our data suggest that the rat placenta is protected from oxidative stress by the dynamic zone- and stage-dependent expression of antioxidant defense genes.
3729,lif/stat3 controls es cell self-renewal and pluripotency by a myc-dependent mechanism.,murine es cells can be maintained as a pluripotent  self-renewing population by lif/stat3-dependent signaling. the downstream effectors of this pathway have not been previously defined. in this report  we identify a key target of the lif self-renewal pathway by showing that stat3 directly regulates the expression of the myc transcription factor. murine es cells express elevated levels of myc and following lif withdrawal  myc mrna levels collapse and myc protein becomes phosphorylated on threonine 58 (t58)  triggering its gsk3beta dependent degradation. maintained expression of stable myc (t58a) renders self-renewal and maintenance of pluripotency independent of lif. by contrast  expression of a dominant negative form of myc antagonizes self-renewal and promotes differentiation. transcriptional control by stat3 and suppression of t58 phosphorylation are crucial for regulation of myc activity in es cells and therefore in promoting self-renewal. together  our results establish a mechanism for how lif and stat3 regulate es cell self-renewal and pluripotency.
3731,left ventricular function and exercise capacity.,context limited information exists regarding the role of left ventricular function in predicting exercise capacity and impact on age- and sex-related differences. objectives to determine the impact of measures of cardiac function assessed by echocardiography on exercise capacity and to determine if these associations are modified by sex or advancing age. design cross-sectional study of patients undergoing exercise echocardiography with routine measurements of left ventricular systolic and diastolic function by 2-dimensional and doppler techniques. analyses were conducted to determine the strongest correlates of exercise capacity and the age and sex interactions of these variables with exercise capacity. setting large tertiary referral center in rochester  minnesota  in 2006. participants patients undergoing exercise echocardiography using the bruce protocol (n = 2867). patients with echocardiographic evidence of exercise-induced ischemia  ejection fractions lower than 50%  or significant valvular heart disease were excluded. main outcome measure exercise capacity in metabolic equivalents (mets). results diastolic dysfunction was strongly and inversely associated with exercise capacity. compared with normal function  after multivariate adjustment  those with moderate/severe resting diastolic dysfunction (-1.30 mets; 95% confidence interval [ci]  -1.52 to -0.99; p < .001) and mild resting diastolic dysfunction (-0.70 mets; 95% ci  -0.88 to -0.46; p < .001) had substantially lower exercise capacity. variation of left ventricular systolic function within the normal range was not associated with exercise capacity. left ventricular filling pressures measured by resting e/e' of 15 or greater (-0.41 mets; 95% ci  -0.70 to -0.11; p = .007) or postexercise e/e' of 15 or greater (-0.41 mets; 95% ci  -0.71 to -0.11; p = .007) were similarly associated with a reduction in exercise capacity  each in separate multivariate analyses. individuals with impaired relaxation (mild dysfunction) or resting e/e' of 15 or greater had a progressive increase in the magnitude of reduction in exercise capacity with advancing age (p < .001 and p = .02  respectively). other independent correlates of exercise capacity were age (unstandardized beta coefficient  -0.85 mets; 95% ci  -0.92 to -0.77  per 10-year increment; p < .001)  female sex (-1.98 mets; 95% ci  -2.15 to -1.84; p < .001)  and body mass index greater than 30 (-1.24 mets; 95% ci  -1.41 to -1.10; p < .001). conclusion in this large cross-sectional study of those referred for exercise echocardiography and not limited by ischemia  abnormalities of left ventricular diastolic function were independently associated with exercise capacity.
3733,inflammatory cytokines in depression: neurobiological mechanisms and therapeutic implications.,mounting evidence indicates that inflammatory cytokines contribute to the development of depression in both medically ill and medically healthy individuals. cytokines are important for development and normal brain function  and have the ability to influence neurocircuitry and neurotransmitter systems to produce behavioral alterations. acutely  inflammatory cytokine administration or activation of the innate immune system produces adaptive behavioral responses that promote conservation of energy to combat infection or recovery from injury. however  chronic exposure to elevated inflammatory cytokines and persistent alterations in neurotransmitter systems can lead to neuropsychiatric disorders and depression. mechanisms of cytokine behavioral effects involve activation of inflammatory signaling pathways in the brain that results in changes in monoamine  glutamate  and neuropeptide systems  and decreases in growth factors  such as brain-derived neurotrophic factor. furthermore  inflammatory cytokines may serve as mediators of both environmental (e.g. childhood trauma  obesity  stress  and poor sleep) and genetic (functional gene polymorphisms) factors that contribute to depression's development. this review explores the idea that specific gene polymorphisms and neurotransmitter systems can confer protection from or vulnerability to specific symptom dimensions of cytokine-related depression. additionally  potential therapeutic strategies that target inflammatory cytokine signaling or the consequences of cytokines on neurotransmitter systems in the brain to prevent or reverse cytokine effects on behavior are discussed.
3735,peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha activation decreases metastatic potential of melanoma cells in vitro via down-regulation of akt.,purpose peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (ppar) regulate lipid and glucose metabolism but their anticancer properties have been recently studied as well. we previously reported the antimetastatic activity of the pparalpha ligand  fenofibrate  against melanoma tumors in vivo. here we investigated possible molecular mechanisms of fenofibrate anti metastatic action. experimental design monolayer cultures of mouse (b16f10) and human (skmell88) melanoma cell lines  soft agar assay  and cell migration assay were used in this study. in addition  we analyzed pparalpha expression and its transcriptional activity in response to fenotibrate by using western blots and liciferase-based reporter system. results fenofibrate inhibited migration of b16f10 and skmel188 cells in transwell chambers and colony formation in soft agar. these effects were reversed by ppar inhibitor  gw9662. western blot analysis revealed time-dependent down-regulation of akt and extracellular signal-regulated kinase l/2 phosphorylation in fenofibrate-treated cells. a b16f10 cell line stably expressing constitutively active akt mutant was resistant to fenofibrate. in contrast  akt gene silencing with sirna mimicked the fenofibrate action and reduced the migratory ability of b16f1o cells. in addition  fenofibrate strongly sensitized bi6fio cells to the proapoptotic drug staurosporine  further supporting the possibility that fenofibrate-induced down-regulation of akt function contributes to fenofibrate-mediated inhibition of metastatic potential in this experimental model. conclusions our results show that the ppar-dependent antimetastatic activity of fenofibrate involves down-regulation of akt phosphorylation and suggest that supplementation with this drug may improve the effectiveness of melanoma chemotherapy.
3737,germinal center t follicular helper cell il-4 production is dependent on signaling lymphocytic activation molecule receptor (cd150).,cd4 t cell help is critical for the generation and maintenance of germinal centers (gcs)  and t follicular helper (t(fh)) cells are the cd4 t cell subset required for this process. signaling lymphocytic activation molecule (slam)-associated protein (sap [sh2d1a]) expression in cd4 t cells is essential for gc development. however  sap-deficient mice have only a moderate defect in t(fh) differentiation  as defined by common t(fh) surface markers. cxcr5(+) t(fh) cells are found within the gc  as well as along the boundary regions of t/b cell zones. in this study  we show that gc-associated t follicular helper (gc t(fh)) cells can be identified by their coexpression of cxcr5 and the gl7 epitope  allowing for phenotypic and functional analysis of t(fh) and gc t(fh) populations. gc t(fh) cells are a functionally discrete subset of further polarized t(fh) cells  with enhanced b cell help capacity and a specialized ability to produce il-4 in a t(h)2-independent manner. strikingly  sap-deficient mice have an absence of the gc t(fh) cell subset and sap(-) t(fh) cells are defective in il-4 and il-21 production. we further demonstrate that slam (slamf1  cd150)  a surface receptor that uses sap signaling  is specifically required for il-4 production by gc t(fh) cells. gc t(fh) cells require il-4 and -21 production for optimal help to b cells. these data illustrate complexities of sap-dependent slam family receptor signaling  revealing a prominent role for slam receptor ligation in il-4 production by gc cd4 t cells but not in t(fh) cell and gc t(fh) cell differentiation.
3739,wnt7a/fzd7 signalling directly activates the akt/mtor anabolic growth pathway in skeletal muscle,wnt7a signals through its receptor fzd7 to activate the planar-cell-polarity pathway and drive the symmetric expansion of satellite stem cells resulting in enhanced repair of skeletal muscle. in differentiated myofibres  we observed that wnt7a binding to fzd7 directly activates the akt/mtor growth pathway  thereby inducing myofibre hypertrophy. notably  the fzd7 receptor complex was associated with gα(s) and pi(3)k and these components were required for wnt7a to activate the akt/mtor growth pathway in myotubes. wnt7a-fzd7 activation of this pathway was completely independent of igf-receptor activation. together  these experiments demonstrate that wnt7a-fzd7 activates distinct pathways at different developmental stages during myogenic lineage progression  and identify a non-canonical anabolic signalling pathway for wnt7a and its receptor fzd7 in skeletal muscle.
3741,pharmacological characterization of 1-(5-chloro-6-(trifluoromethoxy)-1h-benzoimidazol-2-yl)-1h-pyrazole-4-carboxylic acid (jnj-42041935)  a potent and selective hypoxia-inducible factor prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor.,the hypoxia-inducible factor (hif) prolyl hydroxylase (phd) enzymes represent novel targets for the treatment of anemia  ulcerative colitis  and ischemic and metabolic disease inter alia. we have identified a novel small-molecule inhibitor of phd  1-(5-chloro-6-(trifluoromethoxy)-1h-benzoimidazol-2-yl)-1h-pyrazole-4-carboxylic acid (jnj-42041935)  through structure-based drug design methods. the pharmacology of jnj-42041935 was investigated in enzyme  cellular  and whole-animal systems and was compared with other compounds described in the literature as phd inhibitors. jnj-42041935  was a potent (pk(i) = 7.3-7.9)  2-oxoglutarate competitive  reversible  and selective inhibitor of phd enzymes. in addition  jnj-42041935 was used to compare the effect of selective inhibition of phd to intermittent  high doses (50 μg/kg i.p.) of an exogenous erythropoietin receptor agonist in an inflammation-induced anemia model in rats. jnj-42041935 (100 μmol/kg  once a day for 14 days) was effective in reversing inflammation-induced anemia  whereas erythropoietin had no effect. the results demonstrate that jnj-42041935 is a new pharmacological tool  which can be used to investigate phd inhibition and demonstrate that phd inhibitors offer great promise for the treatment of inflammation-induced anemia.
3743,clonally derived human embryonic stem cell lines maintain pluripotency and proliferative potential for prolonged periods of culture.,embryonic stem (es) cell lines derived from human blastocysts have the developmental potential to form derivatives of all three embryonic germ layers even after prolonged culture. here we describe the clonal derivation of two human es cell lines  h9.1 and h9.2. at the time of the clonal derivation of the h9.1 and h9.2 es cell lines  the parental es cell line  h9  had already been continuously cultured for 6 months. after an additional 8 months of culture  h9.1 and h9.2 es cell lines continued to: (1) actively proliferate  (2) express high levels of telomerase  and (3) retain normal karyotypes. telomere lengths  while somewhat variable  were maintained between 8 and 12 kb in high-passage h9.1 and h9.2 cells. high-passage h9.1 and h9.2 cells both formed teratomas in scid-beige mice that included differentiated derivatives of all three embryonic germ layers. these results demonstrate the pluripotency of single human es cells  the maintenance of pluripotency during an extended period of culture  and the long-term self-renewing properties of cultured human es cells. the remarkable developmental potential  proliferative capacity  and karyotypic stability of human es cells distinguish them from adult cells.
3745,identification of senescent cells in the bone microenvironment.,cellular senescence is a fundamental mechanism by which cells remain metabolically active yet cease dividing and undergo distinct phenotypic alterations  including upregulation of p16ink4a   profound secretome changes  telomere shortening  and decondensation of pericentromeric satellite dna. because senescent cells accumulate in multiple tissues with aging  these cells and the dysfunctional factors they secrete  termed the senescence-associated secretory phenotype (sasp)  are increasingly recognized as promising therapeutic targets to prevent age-related degenerative pathologies  including osteoporosis. however  the cell type(s) within the bone microenvironment that undergoes senescence with aging in vivo has remained poorly understood  largely because previous studies have focused on senescence in cultured cells. thus in young (age 6 months) and old (age 24 months) mice  we measured senescence and sasp markers in vivo in highly enriched cell populations  all rapidly isolated from bone/marrow without in vitro culture. in both females and males  p16ink4a expression by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (rt-qpcr) was significantly higher with aging in b cells  t cells  myeloid cells  osteoblast progenitors  osteoblasts  and osteocytes. further  in vivo quantification of senescence-associated distension of satellites (sads)  ie  large-scale unraveling of pericentromeric satellite dna  revealed significantly more senescent osteocytes in old compared with young bone cortices (11% versus 2%  p < 0.001). in addition  primary osteocytes from old mice had sixfold more (p < 0.001) telomere dysfunction-induced foci (tifs) than osteocytes from young mice. corresponding with the age-associated accumulation of senescent osteocytes was significantly higher expression of multiple sasp markers in osteocytes from old versus young mice  several of which also showed dramatic age-associated upregulation in myeloid cells. these data show that with aging  a subset of cells of various lineages within the bone microenvironment become senescent  although senescent myeloid cells and senescent osteocytes predominantly develop the sasp. given the critical roles of osteocytes in orchestrating bone remodeling  our findings suggest that senescent osteocytes and their sasp may contribute to age-related bone loss. © 2016 american society for bone and mineral research.
3747,microenvironmental regulation of biomacromolecular therapies,there is currently great interest in molecular therapies to treat various diseases  and this has prompted extensive efforts to achieve target-specific and controlled delivery of bioactive macromolecules (for example  proteins  antibodies  dna and small interfering rna) through the design of smart drug carriers. by contrast  the influence of the microenvironment in which the target cell resides and the effect it might have on the success of biomacromolecular therapies has been under-appreciated. the extracellular matrix (ecm) component of the cellular niche may be particularly important  as many diseases and injury disrupt the normal ecm architecture  the cell adhesion to ecm  and the subsequent cellular activities. this review will discuss the importance of the ecm and the ecm–cell interactions on the cell response to bioactive macromolecules  and suggest how this information could lead to new criteria for the design of novel drug delivery systems.
3749,intrahippocampal administration of an androgen receptor antagonist  flutamide  can increase anxiety-like behavior in intact and dht-replaced male rats.,testosterone (t) and its 5alpha-reduced metabolite  dihydrotestosterone (dht)  can decrease anxiety-like behavior; however  the mechanisms underlying these effects have not been established. first  we hypothesized that if t reduces anxiety-like behavior through actions of its 5alpha-reduced metabolite  dht  then gonadectomy (gdx) would increase anxiety-like behavior  an effect which would be reversed by systemic administration of dht. second  we hypothesized that if t and dht reduce anxiety-like behavior in part through actions at intracellular androgen receptors in the hippocampus  then administration of an androgen receptor antagonist  flutamide  directly to the hippocampus should increase anxiety-like behavior of intact and dht-replaced  but not gdx  male rats. inserts that were empty or contained flutamide were applied directly to the dorsal hippocampus of intact  gdx  or gdx and dht-replaced rats 2 h prior to testing in the open field  elevated plus maze  or defensive freezing tasks. gdx rats exhibited significantly more anxiety-like behaviors than intact or dht-replaced rats. intact and dht-replaced rats administered flutamide to the hippocampus showed significantly more anxiety-like behavior than did intact and dht-replaced controls. however  flutamide alone did not increase anxiety-like behavior of gdx rats. together  these findings suggest that androgens can decrease anxiety-like behavior of male rats in part through dht's actions at androgen receptors in the hippocampus.
3751,increased density of tumor-associated macrophages is associated with decreased survival in advanced thyroid cancer.,thyroid cancers are infiltrated with tumor-associated macrophages (tams)  yet their role in cancer progression is not known. the objectives of this study were to characterize the density of tams in well-differentiated (wdtc)  poorly differentiated (pdtc)  and anaplastic thyroid cancers (atc) and to correlate tam density with clinicopathologic parameters. immunohistochemistry was performed on tissue microarray sections from wdtc (n=33)  pdtc (n=37)  and atc (n=20) using macrophage-specific markers. electronic medical records were used to gather clinical and pathologic data. follow-up information of pdtc patients was available for 0-12 years. in total  9 out of 33 wdtc (27%)  20 out of 37 pdtc (54%)  and 19 out of 20 atc (95%) had an increased density of cd68(+) tams (> or = 10 per 0.28 mm(2); wdtc versus pdtc  p=0.03; wdtc versus atc  p<0.0001; pdtc versus atc  p<0.002). increased tams in pdtc was associated with capsular invasion (p=0.034)  extrathyroidal extension (p=0.009)  and decreased cancer-related survival (p=0.009) compared with pdtc with a low density of tams. in conclusion  the density of tams is increased in advanced thyroid cancers. the presence of a high density of tams in pdtc correlates with invasion and decreased cancer-related survival. these results suggest that tams may facilitate tumor progression. as novel therapies directed against thyroid tumor cell-specific targets are being tested  the potential role of tams as potential modulators of the thyroid cancer behavior will need to be considered.
3753,genetic and physical analysis of double-strand break repair and recombination in saccharomyces cerevisiae.,we have investigated ho endonuclease-induced double-strand break (dsb) recombination and repair in a lacz duplication plasmid in yeast. a 117-bp mata fragment  embedded in one copy of lacz  served as a site for initiation of a dsb when ho endonuclease was expressed. the dsb could be repaired using wild-type sequences located on a second  promoterless  copy of lacz on the same plasmid. in contrast to normal mating-type switching  crossing-over associated with gene conversion occurred at least 50% of the time. the proportion of conversion events accompanied by exchange was greater when the two copies of lacz were in direct orientation (80%)  than when inverted (50%). in addition  the fraction of plasmids lost was significantly greater in the inverted orientation. the kinetics of appearance of intermediates and final products were also monitored. the repair of the dsb is slow  requiring at least an hour from the detection of the ho-cut fragments to completion of repair. surprisingly  the appearance of the two reciprocal products of crossing over did not occur with the same kinetics. for example  when the two lacz sequences were in the direct orientation  the ho-induced formation of a large circular deletion product was not accompanied by the appearance of a small circular reciprocal product. we suggest that these differences may reflect two kinetically separable processes  one involving only one cut end and the other resulting from the concerted participation of both ends of the dsb.
3755,efficient t cell activation requires an optimal dwell-time of interaction between the tcr and the pmhc complex,cytotoxic t cell (ctl) activation by antigen requires the specific detection of peptide–major histo-compatibility class i (pmhc) molecules on the target-cell surface by the t cell receptor (tcr). we examined the effect of mutations in the antigen-binding site of a kb-restricted tcr on t cell activation  antigen binding and dissociation from antigen. these parameters were also examined for variants derived from a kd-restricted peptide that was recognized by a ctl clone. using these two independent systems  we show that t cell activation can be impaired by mutations that either decrease or increase the binding half-life of the tcr-pmhc interaction. our data indicate that efficient t cell activation occurs within an optimal dwell-time range of tcr-pmhc interaction. this restricted dwell-time range is consistent with the exclusion of either extremely low or high affinity t cells from the expanded population during immune responses.
3757,glutathione and glutathione-dependent enzymes represent a co-ordinately regulated defence against oxidative stress.,increases in the intracellular levels of reactive oxygen species (ros)  frequently referred to as oxidative stress  represents a potentially toxic insult which if not counteracted will lead to membrane dysfunction  dna damage and inactivation of proteins. chronic oxidative stress has numerous pathological consequences including cancer  arthritis and neurodegenerative disease. glutathione-associated metabolism is a major mechanism for cellular protection against agents which generate oxidative stress. it is becoming increasingly apparent that the glutathione tripeptide is central to a complex multifaceted detoxification system  where there is substantial inter-dependence between separate component members. glutathione participates in detoxification at several different levels  and may scavenge free radicals  reduce peroxides or be conjugated with electrophilic compounds. thus  glutathione provides the cell with multiple defences not only against ros but also against their toxic products. this article discusses how glutathione biosynthesis  glutathione peroxidases  glutathione s-transferases and glutathione s-conjugate efflux pumps function in an integrated fashion to allow cellular adaption to oxidative stress. co-ordination of this response is achieved  at least in part  through the antioxidant responsive element (are) which is found in the promoters of many of the genes that are inducible by oxidative and chemical stress. transcriptional activation through this enhancer appears to be mediated by basic leucine zipper transcription factors such as nrf and small maf proteins. the nature of the intracellular sensor(s) for ros and thiol-active chemicals which induce genes through the are is described. gene activation through the are appears to account for the enhanced antioxidant and detoxification capacity of normal cells effected by many cancer chemopreventive agents. in certain instances it may also account for acquired resistance of tumours to cancer chemotherapeutic drugs. it is therefore clear that determining the mechanisms involved in regulation of are-driven gene expression has enormous medical implications.
3759,infectiousness of malaria-endemic human populations to vectors.,despite its key role in determining the stability and intensity of malaria transmission  the infectiousness of human populations to mosquitoes has rarely been estimated. field-based analyses of malaria transmission have frequently relied on the prevalence of asexual parasites or gametocytes as proxies for infectiousness. we now summarize empirical data on human infectiousness from africa and papua new guinea. over a wide range of transmission intensities there is little relationship between the infectiousness of human populations to vector mosquitoes and mosquito-to-human transmission intensity. we compare these data with the predictions of a stochastic simulation model of plasmodium falciparum epidemiology. this model predicted little variation in the infectiousness of the human population for entomologic inoculation rates (eirs) greater than approximately 10 infectious bites per year  demonstrating that the lack of relationship between the eir and the infectious reservoir can be explained without invoking any effects of acquired transmission-blocking immunity. the near absence of field data from areas with an eir < 10 per year precluded validation of the model predictions for low eir values. these results suggest that interventions reducing mosquito-to-human transmission will have little or no effect on human infectiousness at the levels of transmission found in most rural areas of sub-saharan africa. unless very large reductions in transmission can be achieved  measures to prevent mosquito-to-human transmission need to be complemented with interventions that reduce the density or infectiousness of blood stage parasites.
3761,endoplasmic reticulum stress contributes to beta cell apoptosis in type 2 diabetes,increased lipid supply causes beta cell death  which may contribute to reduced beta cell mass in type 2 diabetes. we investigated whether endoplasmic reticulum (er) stress is necessary for lipid-induced apoptosis in beta cells and also whether er stress is present in islets of an animal model of diabetes and of humans with type 2 diabetes. expression of genes involved in er stress was evaluated in insulin-secreting min6 cells exposed to elevated lipids  in islets isolated from db/db mice and in pancreas sections of humans with type 2 diabetes. overproduction of the er chaperone heat shock 70 kda protein 5 (hspa5  previously known as immunoglobulin heavy chain binding protein [bip]) was performed to assess whether attenuation of er stress affected lipid-induced apoptosis. we demonstrated that the pro-apoptotic fatty acid palmitate triggers a comprehensive er stress response in min6 cells  which was virtually absent using non-apoptotic fatty acid oleate. time-dependent increases in mrna levels for activating transcription factor 4 (atf4)  dna-damage inducible transcript 3 (ddit3  previously known as c/ebp homologous protein [chop]) and dnaj homologue (hsp40) c3 (dnajc3  previously known as p58) correlated with increased apoptosis in palmitate- but not in oleate-treated min6 cells. attenuation of er stress by overproduction of hspa5 in min6 cells significantly protected against lipid-induced apoptosis. in islets of db/db mice  a variety of marker genes of er stress were also upregulated. increased processing (activation) of x-box binding protein 1 (xbp1) mrna was also observed  confirming the existence of er stress. finally  we observed increased islet protein production of hspa5  ddit3  dnajc3 and bcl2-associated x protein in human pancreas sections of type 2 diabetes subjects. our results provide evidence that er stress occurs in type 2 diabetes and is required for aspects of the underlying beta cell failure.
3763,in vitro substrate specificity of protein tyrosine kinases,synthetic peptides such as p60stc autophosphorylation site peptides and angiotensin are indiscriminately phosphorylated by protein tyrosine kinases. the observation has led to the general belief that protein tyrosine kinases are highly promiscuous  displaying littlein vitro site specificity. in recent years  evidence has been accumulating to indicate that such a belief requires close examination. synthetic peptides showing high substrate activity for specific groups of protein tyrosine kinases have been obtained. systematic modification of certain substrate peptides suggests that kinase substrate determinants reside with specific amino acid residues proximal to the target tyrosine. a number of protein kinases have been shown to be regulated by tyrosine phosphorylation at specific sites by highly specific protein tyrosine kinases. these and other selected biochemical studies that contribute to the evolving view ofin vitro substrate specificity of protein tyrosine kinases are reviewed.
3765,purification and characterization of mouse hematopoietic stem cells.,mouse bone marrow hematopoietic stem cells were isolated with the use of a variety of phenotypic markers. these cells can proliferate and differentiate with approximately unit efficiency into myelomonocytic cells  b cells  or t cells. thirty of these cells are sufficient to save 50 percent of lethally irradiated mice  and to reconstitute all blood cell types in the survivors.
3767,microrna expression profiling of human metastatic cancers identifies cancer gene targets.,small non-coding micrornas (mirnas) contribute to cancer development and progression  and are differentially expressed in normal tissues and cancers. however  the specific role of mirnas in the metastatic process is still unknown. to seek a specific mirna expression signature characterizing the metastatic phenotype of solid tumours  we performed a mirna microarray analysis on 43 paired primary tumours (ten colon  ten bladder  13 breast  and ten lung cancers) and one of their related metastatic lymph nodes. we identified a metastatic cancer mirna signature comprising 15 overexpressed and 17 underexpressed mirnas. our results were confirmed by qrt-pcr analysis. among the mirnas identified  some have a well-characterized association with cancer progression  eg mir-10b  mir-21  mir-30a  mir-30e  mir-125b  mir-141  mir-200b  mir-200c  and mir-205. to further support our data  we performed an immunohistochemical analysis for three well-defined mirna gene targets (pdcd4  dhfr  and hoxd10 genes) on a small series of paired colon  breast  and bladder cancers  and one of their metastatic lymph nodes. we found that the immunohistochemical expression of these targets significantly follows the corresponding mirna deregulation. our results suggest that specific mirnas may be directly involved in cancer metastasis and that they may represent a novel diagnostic tool in the characterization of metastatic cancer gene targets.
3769,pharmacokinetic  pharmacodynamic and clinical profile of novel antiplatelet drugs targeting vascular diseases.,platelet inhibitors are the mainstay treatment for patients with vascular diseases. the current 'gold standard' antiplatelet agent clopidogrel has several pharmacological and clinical limitations that have prompted the search for more effective platelet antagonists. the candidates include various blockers of the purinergic p2y12 receptor such as prasugrel  an oral irreversible thienopyridine; two adenosine triphosphate analogues that bind reversibly to the p2y12 receptor: ticagrelor (oral) and cangrelor (intravenous); elinogrel  a direct-acting reversible p2y12 receptor inhibitor (the only antiplatelet compound that can be administered both intravenously and orally); bx 667  an orally active and reversible small-molecule p2y12 receptor antagonist; sch 530348  sch 205831  sch 602539 and e5555  highly selective and orally active antagonists on the protease-activated receptor 1. a number of drugs also hit new targets: terutroban  an oral  selective and specific inhibitor of the thromboxane receptor; arc1779  a second-generation  nuclease resistant aptamer which inhibits von willebrand factor-dependent platelet aggregation; alx-0081  a bivalent humanized nanobody targeting the gpib binding site of von willebrand factor and ajw200  an igg4 monoclonal antibody of von willebrand factor. the pharmacology and clinical profiles of new platelet antagonists indicate that they provide more consistent  more rapid and more potent platelet inhibition than agents currently used. whether these potential advantages will translate into clinical advantages will require additional comparisons in properly powered  randomized  controlled trials.
3771,association between high serum soluble corin and hypertension: a cross-sectional study in a general population of china.,background corin has been suggested to be associated with hypertension by cell- and animal-based studies. however  the association still lacks population-based evidence which critically promotes translation from basic research to clinical and preventive practice. here  we aimed to explore the association in a general population of china. methods from january to may 2010  we conducted a cross-sectional study in 2 498 participants aged above 30 years  residing in gusu district of suzhou. serum soluble corin and blood pressure were measured. results hypertensive participants had a higher level of serum corin than nonhypertensive participants (median (interquartile range): 1 836.83 (1 497.85-2 327.87) pg/ml vs. 1 579.14 (1 322.18-1 956.82) pg/ml  p < 0.001). higher serum corin was positively associated with prevalent hypertension (odds ratio (or) = 2.01  p < 0.001). in the multiple analysis  participants in the third (or = 1.43  p = 0.007) and fourth (or = 1.96  p < 0.001) quartiles had significantly increased odds of hypertension compared to those in the lowest quartile of serum corin. ors of hypertension positively and significantly increased with serum corin levels (p for trend <0.001). further subgroup analysis showed that ors of hypertension associated with high corin (over the median level of serum corin: 1 689.20 pg/ml) were still significant in subgroups by age  body mass index  total cholesterol  low-density lipoprotein cholesterol  and fasting plasma glucose (all p < 0.05). conclusions our study showed that hypertensive participants had an increased serum corin level compared to those without hypertension. this ﬁnding suggests that corin may play a role in the pathology of hypertension.
3773,promotion of tumorigenesis by heterozygous disruption of the beclin 1 autophagy gene.,malignant cells often display defects in autophagy  an evolutionarily conserved pathway for degrading long-lived proteins and cytoplasmic organelles. however  as yet  there is no genetic evidence for a role of autophagy genes in tumor suppression. the beclin 1 autophagy gene is monoallelically deleted in 40-75% of cases of human sporadic breast  ovarian  and prostate cancer. therefore  we used a targeted mutant mouse model to test the hypothesis that monoallelic deletion of beclin 1 promotes tumorigenesis. here we show that heterozygous disruption of beclin 1 increases the frequency of spontaneous malignancies and accelerates the development of hepatitis b virus-induced premalignant lesions. molecular analyses of tumors in beclin 1 heterozygous mice show that the remaining wild-type allele is neither mutated nor silenced. furthermore  beclin 1 heterozygous disruption results in increased cellular proliferation and reduced autophagy in vivo. these findings demonstrate that beclin 1 is a haplo-insufficient tumor-suppressor gene and provide genetic evidence that autophagy is a novel mechanism of cell-growth control and tumor suppression. thus  mutation of beclin 1 or other autophagy genes may contribute to the pathogenesis of human cancers.
3775,quiescent and active hippocampal neural stem cells with distinct morphologies respond selectively to physiological and pathological stimuli and aging.,new neurons are generated in the adult hippocampus throughout life by neural stem/progenitor cells (nscs)  and neurogenesis is a plastic process responsive to external stimuli. we show that canonical notch signaling through rbp-j is required for hippocampal neurogenesis. notch signaling distinguishes morphologically distinct sox2(+) nscs  and within these pools subpopulations can shuttle between mitotically active or quiescent. radial and horizontal nscs respond selectively to neurogenic stimuli. physical exercise activates the quiescent radial population whereas epileptic seizures induce expansion of the horizontal nsc pool. surprisingly  reduced neurogenesis correlates with a loss of active horizontal nscs in aged mice rather than a total loss of stem cells  and the transition to a quiescent state is reversible to rejuvenate neurogenesis in the brain. the discovery of multiple nsc populations with notch dependence but selective responses to stimuli and reversible quiescence has important implications for the mechanisms of adaptive learning and also for regenerative therapy.
3777,when nk cells overcome their lack of education.,cells of the immune system have evolved various molecular mechanisms to sense their environment and react to alterations of self. nk cells are lymphocytes with effector and regulatory functions  which are remarkably adaptable to changes in self. in a study published in this issue of the jci  tarek and colleagues report the clinical benefits of manipulating nk cell adaptation to self in an innovative mab-based therapy against neuroblastoma (nb). this novel therapeutic strategy should stimulate further research on nk cell therapies.
3779,patent ductus arteriosus: are current neonatal treatment options better or worse than no treatment at all?,although a moderate-sized patent ductus arteriosus (pda) needs to be closed by the time a child is 1-2 years old  there is great uncertainty about whether it needs to be closed during the neonatal period. although 95% of neonatologists believe that a moderate-sized pda should be closed if it persists in infants (born before 28 weeks) who still require mechanical ventilation  the number of neonatologists who treat a pda when it occurs in infants who do not require mechanical ventilation varies widely. both the high likelihood of spontaneous ductus closure and the absence of randomized controlled trials  specifically addressing the risks and benefits of neonatal ductus closure  add to the current uncertainty. new information suggests that early pharmacologic treatment has several important short-term benefits for the preterm newborn. by contrast  ductus ligation  while eliminating the detrimental effects of a pda on lung development  may create its own set of morbidities that counteract many of the benefits derived from ductus closure.
3781,increased expression of cyp1a1 and cyp1b1 in ovarian/peritoneal endometriotic lesions.,endometriosis is an estrogen-dependent disease affecting up to 10% of all premenopausal women. there is evidence that different endometriosis sites show distinct local estrogen concentration  which  in turn  might be due to a unique local estrogen metabolism. we aimed to investigate whether there was a site-specific regulation of selected enzymes responsible for the oxidative metabolism of estrogens in biopsy samples and endometrial and endometriotic stromal cells. cytochrome p450 (cyp) 1a1 and cyp1b1 mrna and protein expressions in deep-infiltrating (rectal  retossigmoidal  and uterossacral) lesions  superficial (ovarian and peritoneal) lesions  and eutopic and healthy (control) endometrium were evaluated by real-time pcr and western blot. using a cross-sectional study design with 58 premenopausal women who were not under hormonal treatment  we were able to identify an overall increased cyp1a1 and cyp1b1 mrna expression in superficial lesions compared with the healthy endometrium. cyp1a1 mrna expression in superficial lesions was also greater than in the eutopic endometrium. interestingly  we found a similar pattern of cyp1a1 and cyp1b1 expression in in vitro stromal cells isolated from ovarian lesions (n=3) when compared with stromal cells isolated from either rectum lesions or eutopic endometrium. in contradiction  there was an increased half-life of estradiol (measured by hplc-ms-ms) in ovarian endometriotic stromal cells compared with paired eutopic stromal endometrial cells. our results indicate that there is a site-dependent regulation of cyp1a1 and cyp1b1 in ovarian/peritoneal lesions and ovarian endometriotic stromal cells  whereas a slower metabolism is taking place in these cells.
3783,suicides after pregnancy in finland  1987-94: register linkage study.,objective to determine rates of suicide associated with pregnancy by the type of pregnancy. design register linkage study. information on suicides in women of reproductive age was linked with the finnish birth  abortion  and hospital discharge registers to find out how many women who committed suicide had had a completed pregnancy during her last year of life. setting nationwide data from finland. subjects women who committed suicide in 1987-94. results there were 73 suicides associated with pregnancy  representing 5.4% of all suicides in women in this age group. the mean annual suicide rate was 11.3 per 100 000. the suicide rate associated with birth was significantly lower (5.9) and the rates associated with miscarriage (18.1) and induced abortion (34.7) were significantly higher than in the population. the risk associated with birth was higher among teenagers and that associated with abortion was increased in all age groups. women who had committed a suicide tended to come from lower social classes and were more likely to be unmarried than other women who had had a completed pregnancy. conclusions the increased risk of suicide after an induced abortion indicates either common risk factors for both or harmful effects of induced abortion on mental health.
3785,inborn errors of human jaks and stats.,inborn errors of the genes encoding two of the four human jaks (jak3 and tyk2) and three of the six human stats (stat1  stat3  and stat5b) have been described. we review the disorders arising from mutations in these five genes  highlighting the way in which the molecular and cellular pathogenesis of these conditions has been clarified by the discovery of inborn errors of cytokines  hormones  and their receptors  including those interacting with jaks and stats. the phenotypic similarities between mice and humans lacking individual jak-stat components suggest that the functions of jaks and stats are largely conserved in mammals. however  a wide array of phenotypic differences has emerged between mice and humans carrying biallelic null alleles of jak3  tyk2  stat1  or stat5b. moreover  the high degree of allelic heterogeneity at the human jak3  tyk2  stat1  and stat3 loci has revealed highly diverse immunological and clinical phenotypes  which had not been anticipated.
3787,the flip side of perception-action coupling: locomotor experience and the ontogeny of visual-postural coupling.,the possible role of motor development on psychological function is once again a topic of great theoretical and practical importance. the revival of this issue has stemmed from a different approach to the topic  away from gesell's interest in the long-term prediction of psychological functions from early motoric assessments  toward an attempt to understand how the acquisition of motor skills orchestrates psychological changes. this paper describes how the acquisition of one motor skill  prone locomotion  has been linked to developmental changes in an infant's ability to regulate posture based on information available in patterns of optic flow. it is argued that the onset of prone locomotion presses the infant to differentiate spatially delimited regions of optic flow to effectively and efficiently control the important subtasks nested within the larger task of locomotion  namely  steering  attending to the surface of support  and maintaining postural control. following this argument  a research program is described that aims to determine if locomotor experience is causally linked to improvements in the ability to functionalize peripheral optic flow for postural control or whether locomotor experience is merely a maturational forecaster of such improvements. finally  a hypothesis is put forward that links the emergence of wariness of heights to infants' ability to regulate posture on the basis of peripheral optic flow. the paper's overarching theoretical point is the principle of probabilistic epigenesis  which states that one developmental acquisition produces experiences that bring about a host of new developmental changes in the same and different domains.
3789,studies of nuclear and cytoplasmic behaviour during the five mitotic cycles that precede gastrulation in drosophila embryogenesis.,using differential interference contrast optics  combined with cinematography  we have studied the morphological changes that the living  syncytial embryo undergoes from stage 10 through 14 of drosophila embryogenesis  that is just prior to and during formation of the cellular blastoderm. we have supplemented these studies with data collected from fixed  stained  whole embryos. the following information has been obtained. the average duration of nuclear cycles 10  11  12 and 13 is about 9  10  12 and 21 min  respectively (25 degrees c). in these four cycles  the duration of that portion of the mitotic period that lacks a discrete nuclear envelope is 3  3  3 and 5 min  respectively. the length of nuclear cycle 14 varies in a position-specific manner throughout the embryo  the shortest cycles being of 65 min duration. during nuclear cycles 10 through 13  it is commonly observed in living embryos that the syncytial blastoderm nuclei enter (and leave) mitosis in one of two waves that originate nearly simultaneously from the opposite anterior and posterior poles of the embryo  and terminate in its midregion. from our preparations of quick-frozen embryos  we estimate that these mitotic waves take on average about half a minute to travel over the embryonic surface from pole to equator. the yolk nuclei  which remain in the core of the embryo when the rest of the nuclei migrate to the periphery  divide in synchrony with the migrating nuclei at nuclear cycles 8 and 9  and just after the now peripherally located nuclei at nuclear cycle 10. after cycle 10  these yolk nuclei cease dividing and become polyploid. the syncytial embryo has at least three distinct levels of cytoskeletal organization: structured domains of cytoplasm are organized around each blastoderm nucleus; radially directed tracks orient colchicine-sensitive saltatory transport throughout the peripheral cytoplasm; and a long-range organization of the core of the embryo makes possible coherent movements of the large inner yolk mass in concert with each nuclear cycle. this highly organized cytoplasm may be involved in providing positional information for the important process of nuclear determination that is known to occur during these stages.
3791,p53 binding to nucleosomal dna depends on the rotational positioning of dna response element.,the sequence-specific binding to dna is crucial for the p53 tumor suppressor function. to investigate the constraints imposed on p53-dna recognition by nucleosomal organization  we studied binding of the p53 dna binding domain (p53dbd) and full-length wild-type p53 protein to a single p53 response element (p53re) placed near the nucleosomal dyad in six rotational settings. we demonstrate that the strongest p53 binding occurs when the p53re in the nucleosome is bent in the same direction as observed for the p53-dna complexes in solution and in co-crystals. the p53re becomes inaccessible  however  if its orientation in the core particle is changed by approximately 180 degrees. our observations indicate that the orientation of the binding sites on a nucleosome may play a significant role in the initial p53-dna recognition and subsequent cofactor recruitment.
3793,quality of life of young adults with idiopathic short stature: effect of growth hormone treatment. dutch growth hormone working group.,the aim of the study was to evaluate whether treatment with recombinant human growth hormone (rhgh) affects the quality of life of young adults who were diagnosed as idiopathic short stature (iss) during childhood  and whether their quality of life and aspects of the personality are different from normal. experiences and expectations concerning rhgh treatment of the subjects and their parents were also investigated. eighty-nine subjects were included into the study: 24 subjects (16m  8f) were treated with rhgh from childhood  whereas 65 subjects (40m  25f) were never treated. at the time of the interview all subjects had attained final height [mean (sd) -2.3 (0.9) sds for dutch references]  and the age of the treated subjects was 20.5 (1.0) y  and 25.7 (3.5) y of the control subjects (p < 0.001). the level of education was similar  but the treated subjects had less often a partner compared to the control subjects (adjusted for age and gender  p < 0.001). the nottingham health profile and short form 36 health survey showed no difference in general health state between treated and control subjects  and the healthy dutch age-specific references (norm group). although 74% of the subjects reported one or more negative events related to their height  and 61% would like to be taller  only 22% and 11% were willing to trade-off at time trade-off and standard gamble  respectively. the personality of the subjects  which was measured by the minnesota multiphasic personality inventory  was not different from the norm group. the satisfaction with the rhgh treatment was high  as it had caused 12 (8) cm and 13 (7) cm gain in final height according to the subjects and parents  respectively. based on initial predicted adult height (bayley & pinneau)  this gain was only 3.3 (5.6) cm. we concluded that although the treated subjects had a partner less often when compared to the control subjects  the quality of life of subjects with iss at adult age is normal and appears not to be affected by rhgh therapy  the treated subjects were very satisfied with the treatment  probably by overestimation of the final height gain.
3795,preterm patent ductus arteriosus: a continuing conundrum for the neonatologist?,how to manage the preterm patent ductus arteriosus (pda) remains a conundrum. on the one hand  physiology and statistical association with adverse outcomes suggest that it is pathological. on the other hand  clinical trials of treatment strategies have failed to show any long-term benefit. ultrasound studies of pda have suggested that the haemodynamic impact may be much earlier after birth than previously thought (in the first hours); however  we still do not know when to treat pda. studies that have tested symptomatic or pre-symptomatic treatment are mainly historical and have not tested the effect of no treatment. prophylactic treatment is the best-studied regimen but improvements in some short-term outcomes do not translate to any difference in longer-term outcomes. neonatologists have been reluctant to engage in trials that test treatment against almost never treating. observations of very early postnatal haemodynamic significance suggest that targeting treatment on the basis of the early postnatal constrictive response of the duct may optimize benefits. a pilot trial of this strategy showed reduction in the incidence of pulmonary haemorrhage but more trials of this strategy are needed.
3797,wedelolactone protects human bronchial epithelial cell injury against cigarette smoke extract-induced oxidant stress and inflammation responses through nrf2 pathway.,cigarette smoke is the leading cause of the development of various lung diseases including lung cancer through triggering oxidant stress and inflammatory responses which contributed to the lesions of normal human bronchial epithelial (nhbe) cell. wedelolactone (wel)  a natural compound from eclipta prostrata l.  has been found to possess the inhibitive effects on the proliferation and growth of cancers. in the present study  we investigated the effects of wel on nhbe cell injury induced by cigarette smoke extract (cse) in vitro. it showed that the pretreatment wel (2.5-20μm) resulted in a significant protective effect on 10% cse-induced cell death in nhbe cells. the pretreatment with wel dose-dependently and significantly reversed the activities of sod  cat  gsh and the level of mda to normal level. we also found that the protein expression levels of cox-2 and icam-1 which are related to inflammatory response were remarkably reduced by wel compared with 10% cse treatment. additionally  wel also reduced the expressions of antioxidases including nad(p)h dehydrogenase:quinone 1 (nqo1) and heme oxygenase-1 (ho-1). moreover  nrf2 inhibitor all-trans-retinoic acid (atra) decreased remarkably their expressions. these results suggest that wel protects nhbe cell against cse-induced injury through modulating nrf2 pathway. our study indicates that wel may be a new potential protective agent against cse-induced lung injury.
3799,circulating tumor cells and [18f]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography/computed tomography for outcome prediction in metastatic breast cancer.,purpose circulating tumor cells (ctcs) and [(18)f]fluorodeoxyglucose (fdg) positron emission tomography (pet)/computed tomography (ct) are two new promising tools for therapeutic monitoring. in this study  we compared the prognostic value of ctc and fdg-pet/ct monitoring during systemic therapy for metastatic breast cancer (mbc). patients and methods a retrospective analyses of 115 mbc patients who started a new line of therapy and who had ctc counts and fdg-pet/ct scans performed at baseline and at 9 to 12 weeks during therapy (midtherapy) was performed. patients were categorized according to midtherapy ctc counts as favorable (ie  < five ctcs/7.5 ml blood) or unfavorable (> or = five ctcs/7.5 ml blood) outcomes. ctc counts and fdg-pet/ct response at midtherapy were compared  and univariate and multivariate analyses were performed to identify factors associated with survival. results in 102 evaluable patients  the median overall survival time was 14 months (range  1 to > 41 months). midtherapy ctc levels correlated with fdg-pet/ct response in 68 (67%) of 102 evaluable patients. in univariate analysis  midtherapy ctc counts and fdg-pet/ct response predicted overall survival (p < .001 and p = .001  respectively). fdg-pet/ct predicted overall survival (p = .0086) in 31 (91%) of 34 discordant patients who had fewer than five ctcs at midtherapy. only midtherapy ctc levels remained significant in a multivariate analysis (p = .004). conclusion detection of five or more ctcs during therapeutic monitoring can accurately predict prognosis in mbc beyond metabolic response. fdg-pet/ct deserves a role in patients who have fewer than five ctcs at midtherapy. prospective trials should evaluate the most sensitive and cost-effective modality for therapeutic monitoring in mbc.
3801,aire deficiency promotes trp-1-specific immune rejection of melanoma.,the thymic transcription factor autoimmune regulator (aire) prevents autoimmunity in part by promoting expression of tissue-specific self-antigens  which include many cancer antigens. for example  aire-deficient patients are predisposed to vitiligo  an autoimmune disease of melanocytes that is often triggered by efficacious immunotherapies against melanoma. therefore  we hypothesized that aire deficiency in mice may elevate immune responses to cancer and provide insights into how such responses might be triggered. in this study  we show that aire deficiency decreases thymic expression of trp-1 (tyrp1)  which is a self-antigen in melanocytes and a cancer antigen in melanomas. aire deficiency resulted in defective negative selection of trp-1-specific t cells without affecting thymic numbers of regulatory t cells. aire-deficient mice displayed elevated t-cell immune responses that were associated with suppression of melanoma outgrowth. furthermore  transplantation of aire-deficient thymic stroma was sufficient to confer more effective immune rejection of melanoma in an otherwise aire wild-type host. together  our work showed how aire deficiency can enhance immune responses against melanoma and how manipulating trp-1-specific t-cell negative selection may offer a logical strategy to enhance immune rejection of melanoma.
3803,biochemical characterization of the ran-ranbp1-rangap system: are ranbp proteins and the acidic tail of rangap required for the ran-rangap gtpase reaction?,ranbp type proteins have been reported to increase the catalytic efficiency of the rangap-mediated gtpase reaction on ran. since the structure of the ran-ranbp1-rangap complex showed ranbp1 to be located away from the active site  we reinvestigated the reaction using fluorescence spectroscopy under pre-steady-state conditions. we can show that ranbp1 indeed does not influence the rate-limiting step of the reaction  which is the cleavage of gtp and/or the release of product p(i). it does  however  influence the dynamics of the ran-rangap interaction  its most dramatic effect being the 20-fold stimulation of the already very fast association reaction such that it is under diffusion control (4.5 x 10(8) m(-1) s(-1)). having established a valuable kinetic system for the interaction analysis  we also found  in contrast to previous findings  that the highly conserved acidic c-terminal end of rangap is not required for the switch-off reaction. rather  genetic experiments in saccharomyces cerevisiae demonstrate a profound effect of the acidic tail on microtubule organization during mitosis. we propose that the acidic tail of rangap is required for a process during mitosis.
3805,the diverse functions of gapdh: views from different subcellular compartments.,multiple roles for glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (gapdh) have been recently appreciated. in addition to the cytoplasm where the majority of gapdh is located under the basal condition  gapdh is also found in the particulate fractions  such as the nucleus  the mitochondria  and the small vesicular fractions. when cells are exposed to various stressors  dynamic subcellular re-distribution of gapdh occurs. here we review these multifunctional properties of gapdh  especially linking them to its oligomerization  posttranslational modification  and subcellular localization. this includes mechanistic descriptions of how s-nitrosylation of gapdh under oxidative stress may lead to cell death/dysfunction via nuclear translocation of gapdh  which is counteracted by a cytosolic gospel. gapdh is also involved in various diseases  especially neurodegenerative disorders and cancers. therapeutic strategies to these conditions based on molecular understanding of gapdh are discussed.
3807,effect of sample quality on the sensitivity of endoscopic biopsy for detecting gastric and duodenal lesions in dogs and cats.,background the quality of histopathology slides of endoscopic biopsies from different laboratories varies  but the effect of biopsy quality on outcome is unknown. hypothesis the ability to demonstrate a histologic lesion in the stomach or duodenum of a dog or cat is affected by the quality of endoscopic biopsy samples submitted. more endoscopic samples are needed to find a lesion in poor-quality tissue specimens. animals tissues from 99 dogs and 51 cats were examined as clinical cases at 8 veterinary institutions or practices in 5 countries. methods histopathology slides from sequential cases that underwent endoscopic biopsy were submitted by participating institutions. quality of the histologic section of tissue (inadequate  marginal  adequate)  type of lesion (lymphangiectasia  crypt lesion  villus blunting  cellular infiltrate)  and severity of lesion (normal  mild  moderate  severe) were determined. sensitivity of different quality tissue samples for finding different lesions was determined. results fewer samples were required from dogs for diagnosis as the quality of the sample improved from inadequate to marginal to adequate. duodenal lesions in cats displayed the same trend except for moderate duodenal infiltrates for which quality of tissue sample made no difference. gastric lesions in dogs and mild gastric lesions in cats had the same trend  whereas the number of tissue samples needed to diagnose moderately severe gastric lesions in cats was not affected by the quality of tissue sample. conclusions and clinical importance the quality of endoscopically obtained tissue samples has a profound effect on their sensitivity for identifying certain lesions  and there are differences between biopsies of canine and feline tissues.
3809,diffusion tensor imaging detects and differentiates axon and myelin degeneration in mouse optic nerve after retinal ischemia.,both axon and myelin degeneration have significant impact on the long-term disability of patients with white matter disorder. however  the clinical manifestations of the neurological dysfunction caused by white matter disorders are not sufficient to determine the origin of neurological deficits. a noninvasive biological marker capable of detecting and differentiating axon and myelin degeneration would be a significant addition to currently available tools. directional diffusivities derived from diffusion tensor imaging (dti) have been previously proposed by this group as potential biological markers to detect and differentiate axon and myelin degeneration. to further test the hypothesis that axial (lambdaparallel) and radial (lambdaperpendicular) diffusivities reflect axon and myelin pathologies  respectively  the optic nerve was examined serially using dti in a mouse model of retinal ischemia. a significant decrease of lambdaparallel  the putative dti axonal marker  was observed 3 days after ischemia without concurrently detectable changes in lambdaperpendicular  the putative myelin marker. this result is consistent with histological findings of significant axonal degeneration with no detectable demyelination at 3 days after ischemia. the elevation of lambdaperpendicular observed 5 days after ischemia is consistent with histological findings of myelin degeneration at this time. these results support the hypothesis that lambdaparallel and lambdaperpendicular hold promise as specific markers of axonal and myelin injury  respectively  and  further  that the coexistence of axonal and myelin degeneration does not confound this utility.
3811,attempted suicide in europe: rates  trends and sociodemographic characteristics of suicide attempters during the period 1989-1992. results of the who/euro multicentre study on parasuicide.,the world health organization/euro multicentre project on parasuicide is part of the action to implement target 12 of the who programme  "health for all by the year 2000'  for the european region. sixteen centres in 13 european countries are participating in the monitoring aspect of the project  in which trends in the epidemiology of suicide attempts are assessed. the highest average male age-standardized rate of suicide attempts was found for helsinki  finland (314/100 000)  and the lowest rate (45/100 000) was for guipuzcoa  spain  representing a sevenfold difference. the highest average female age-standardized rate was found for cergy-pontoise  france (462/100 000)  and the lowest (69/100 000) again for guipuzcoa  spain. with only one exception (helsinki)  the person-based suicide attempt rates were higher among women than among men. in the majority of centres  the highest person-based rates were found in the younger age groups. the rates among people aged 55 years or over were generally the lowest. for the majority of the centres  the rates for individuals aged 15 years or over decreased between 1989 and 1992. the methods used were primarily "soft' (poisoning) or cutting. more than 50% of the suicide attempters made more than one attempt  and nearly 20% of the second attempts were made within 12 months after the first attempt. compared with the general population  suicide attempters more often belong to the social categories associated with social destabilization and poverty.
3813,strand-specific mismatch correction in nuclear extracts of human and drosophila melanogaster cell lines.,nuclear extracts derived from hela and drosophila melanogaster kc cell lines have been found to correct single base-base mispairs within open circular dna heteroduplexes containing a strand-specific  site-specific incision located 808 base pairs from the mismatch. correction in both extract systems is strand specific  being highly biased to the incised dna strand. different mispairs within a homologous set of heteroduplexes were processed with different efficiencies (g.t greater than g.g approximately equal to a.c greater than c.c)  and correction was accompanied by mismatch-dependent dna synthesis localized to the region spanning the mispair and the strand break  thus demonstrating that mismatch recognition is associated with the repair reaction. correction of each of these heteroduplexes was abolished by aphidicolin but was relatively insensitive to the presence of high concentrations of ddttp  indicating probable involvement of alpha and/or delta class dna polymerase(s). these findings suggest that higher eukaryotic cells possess a general  strand-specific mismatch repair system analogous to the escherichia coli muthls and the streptococcus pneumoniae hexab pathways  systems that contribute in a major way to the genetic stability of these bacterial species.
3815,hypothermic preservation up-regulates calpain expression and increases ubiquitination in cultured vascular endothelial cells: influence of dopamine pretreatment.,background prolonged hypothermia  as occurs during solid organ transplantation  negatively influences transplantation outcome. proteolysis is one of the deleterious events implicated in preservation injury of organ allografts. this strongly affects graft quality and hence immediate organ function. since donor catecholamine treatment improves transplantation outcome after renal transplantation  the present study was conducted to examine the influence of dopamine (da) pretreatment on hypothermia induced proteolysis in endothelial cells subjected to prolonged cold storage. materials and methods lactate dehydrogenase (ldh) assay  two-dimensional electrophoresis  ubiquitination analysis  intracellular calcium measurement  and western blot analysis were performed on human umbilical vein endothelial cells (huvec) subjected to hypothermic preservation or not. results huvec were highly susceptible to cold storage  which was reflected by morphological changes  loss of viability  and by significant changes in cellular proteome. da pretreatment prevented cell death during cold storage. western blot analysis demonstrated a time dependent up-regulation of calpain 1 and 2 during cold storage  which could be prevented by addition of edta. da pretreatment abolished autoproteolysis of calpain 1. analysis of ubiquitination revealed a significant increase in ubiquitinated conjugates after cold storage. this was not prevented by da pretreatment. neither proteasome nor calpain inhibitors prevented cell death during cold storage. conclusion in endothelial cells subjected to cold preservation  activation of the calpain pathway and the ubiquitin proteasome system occur. although da pretreatment inhibits the former  calpain inhibition did not protect endothelial cells during cold storage. da pretreatment might influence proteolysis  but proteolysis is not the major cause of endothelial cell death.
3817,effects of exercise training of 8 weeks and detraining on plasma levels of endothelium-derived factors  endothelin-1 and nitric oxide  in healthy young humans.,vascular endothelial cells produce nitric oxide (no)  which is a potent vasodilator substance and has been proposed as having antiatherosclerotic property. vascular endothelial cells also produce endothelin-1 (et-1)  which is a potent vasoconstrictor peptide and has potent proliferating activity on vascular smooth muscle cells. therefore  et-1 has been implicated in the progression of atheromatous vascular disease. because exercise training has been reported to produce an alteration in the function of vascular endothelial cells in animals  we hypothesized that exercise training influences the production of no and et-1 in humans. the purpose of the present study was to examine whether chronic exercise could influence the plasma levels of no (measured as the stable end product of no  i.e.  nitrite/nitrate [nox]) and et-1 in humans. eight healthy young subjects (20.3 +/- 0.5 yr old) participated in the study and exercised by cycling on a leg ergometer (70% vo2max for 1 hour  3-4 days/week) for 8 weeks. venous plasma concentrations of nox and et-1 were measured before and after (immediately before the end of 8-week exercise training) the exercise training  and also after the 4th and 8th week after the cessation of training. the vo2max significantly increased after exercise training. after the exercise training  the plasma concentration of nox significantly increased (30.69 +/- 3.20 vs. 48.64 +/- 8.16 micromol/l  p < 0.05)  and the plasma concentration of et-1 significantly decreased (1.65 +/- 0.14 vs. 1.23 +/- 0.12 pg/ml  p < 0.05). the increase in nox level and the decrease in et-1 level lasted to the 4th week after the cessation of exercise training and these levels (levels of nox and et-1) returned to the basal levels (the levels before the exercise training) in the 8th week after the cessation of exercise training. there was a significant negative correlation between plasma nox concentration and plasma et-1 concentration. the present study suggests that chronic exercise causes an increase in production of no and a decrease in production of et-1 in humans  which may produce beneficial effects (i.e.  vasodilative and antiatherosclerotic) on the cardiovascular system.
3819,a developmental transition in definitive erythropoiesis: erythropoietin expression is sequentially regulated by retinoic acid receptors and hnf4.,the cytokine erythropoietin (epo) promotes erythropoietic progenitor cell proliferation and is required for erythropoietic differentiation. we have found that the epo gene is a direct transcriptional target gene of retinoic acid signaling during early erythropoiesis (prior to embryonic day e12.5) in the fetal liver. mouse embryos lacking the retinoic acid receptor gene rxr alpha have a morphological and histological phenotype that is comparable with embryos in which the epo gene itself has been mutated  and flow cytometric analysis indicates that rxr alpha-deficient embryos are deficient in erythroid differentiation. epo mrna levels are reduced substantially in the fetal livers of rxr alpha(-/-) embryos at e10.25 and e11.25  and genetic analysis shows that the rxr alpha and epo genes are coupled in the same pathway. we furthermore show that the epo gene is retinoic acid inducible in embryos  and that the epo gene enhancer contains a dr2 sequence that represents a retinoic acid receptor-binding site and a retinoic acid receptor transcriptional response element. however  unlike epo-deficient embryos that die from anemia  the erythropoietic deficiency in rxr alpha(-/-) embryos is transient; epo mrna is expressed at normal levels by e12.5  and erythropoiesis and liver morphology are normal by e14.5. we show that hnf4  like rxr alpha a member of the nuclear receptor family  is abundantly expressed in fetal liver hepatocytes  and is competitive with retinoic acid receptors for occupancy of the epo gene enhancer dr2 element. we propose that epo expression is regulated during the e9.5--e11.5 phase of fetal liver erythropoiesis by rxr alpha and retinoic acid  and that expression then becomes dominated by hnf4 activity from e11.5 onward. this transition may be responsible for switching regulation of epo expression from retinoic acid control to hypoxic control  as is found throughout the remainder of life.
3821,association of body mass index with outcomes in patients with ckd.,obesity is associated with higher mortality in the general population  but this association is reversed in patients on dialysis. the nature of the relationship of obesity with adverse clinical outcomes in nondialysis-dependent ckd and the putative interaction of the severity of disease with this association are unclear. we analyzed data from a nationally representative cohort of 453 946 united states veterans with egfr<60 ml/min per 1.73 m(2). the associations of body mass index categories (<20  20 to <25  25 to <30  30 to <35  35 to <40  40 to <45  45 to <50  and ≥50 kg/m(2)) with all-cause mortality and disease progression (using multiple definitions  including incidence of esrd  doubling of serum creatinine  and the slopes of egfr) were examined in cox proportional hazards models and logistic regression models. multivariable adjustments were made for age  race  comorbidities and medications  and baseline egfr. body mass index showed a relatively consistent u-shaped association with clinical outcomes  with the best outcomes observed in overweight and mildly obese patients. body mass index levels <25 kg/m(2) were associated with worse outcomes in all patients  independent of severity of ckd. body mass index levels ≥35 kg/m(2) were associated with worse outcomes in patients with earlier stages of ckd  but this association was attenuated in those patients with egfr<30 ml/min per 1.73 m(2). thus  until clinical trials establish the ideal body mass index  a cautious approach to weight management is warranted in this patient population.
3823,in vitro generated antibodies specific for telomeric guanine-quadruplex dna react with stylonychia lemnae macronuclei.,most eukaryotic telomeres contain a repeating motif with stretches of guanine residues that form a 3'-terminal overhang extending beyond the telomeric duplex region. the telomeric repeat of hypotrichous ciliates  d(t(4)g(4))  forms a 16-nucleotide 3'-overhang. such sequences can adopt parallel-stranded as well as antiparallel-stranded quadruplex conformations in vitro. although it has been proposed that guanine-quadruplex conformations may have important cellular roles including telomere function  recombination  and transcription  evidence for the existence of this dna structure in vivo has been elusive to date. we have generated high-affinity single-chain antibody fragment (scfv) probes for the guanine-quadruplex formed by the stylonychia telomeric repeat  by ribosome display from the human combinatorial antibody library. of the scfvs selected  one (sty3) had an affinity of k(d) = 125 pm for the parallel-stranded guanine-quadruplex and could discriminate with at least 1 000-fold specificity between parallel or antiparallel quadruplex conformations formed by the same sequence motif. a second scfv (sty49) bound both the parallel and antiparallel quadruplex with similar (k(d) = 3--5 nm) affinity. indirect immunofluorescence studies show that sty49 reacts specifically with the macronucleus but not the micronucleus of stylonychia lemnae. the replication band  the region where replication and telomere elongation take place  was also not stained  suggesting that the guanine-quadruplex is resolved during replication. our results provide experimental evidence that the telomeres of stylonychia macronuclei adopt in vivo a guanine-quadruplex structure  indicating that this structure may have an important role for telomere functioning.
3825,myogenic and morphogenetic defects in the heart tubes of murine embryos lacking the homeo box gene nkx2-5.,the murine homeo box gene nkx2-5 is expressed in precardiac mesoderm and in the myocardium of embryonic and fetal hearts. targeted interruption of nkx2-5 resulted in abnormal heart morphogenesis  growth retardation and embryonic lethality at approximately 9-10 days postcoitum (p.c.). heart tube formation occurred normally in mutant embryos  but looping morphogenesis  a critical determinant of heart form  was not initiated at the linear heart tube stage (8.25-8.5 days p.c.). commitment to the cardiac muscle lineage  expression of most myofilament genes and myofibrillogenesis were not compromised. however  the myosin light-chain 2v gene (mlc2v) was not expressed in mutant hearts nor in mutant es cell-derived cardiocytes. mlc2v expression normally occurs only in ventricular cells and is the earliest known molecular marker of ventricular differentiation. the regional expression in mutant hearts of two other ventricular markers  myosin heavy-chain beta and cyclin d2  indicated that not all ventricle-specific gene expression is dependent on nkx2-5. the data demonstrate that nkx2-5 is essential for normal heart morphogenesis  myogenesis  and function. furthermore  this gene is a component of a genetic pathway required for myogenic specialization of the ventricles.
3827,are dual eligibles admitted to poorer quality skilled nursing facilities?,background dual eligibles  persons who qualify for both medicare and medicaid coverage  often receive poorer quality care relative to other medicare beneficiaries. objectives to determine whether dual eligibles are discharged to lower quality post-acute skilled nursing facilities (snfs) compared with medicare-only beneficiaries. research design following the random utility maximization model  we specified a discharge function using a conditional logit model and tested how this discharge rule varied by dual-eligibility status. subjects a total of 692 875 medicare fee-for-service patients (22% duals) who were discharged for medicare paid snf care between july 2004 and june 2005. measures medicare enrollment and the medicaid analytic extract files were used to determine dual eligibility. the proportion of medicaid patients and nursing staff characteristics provided measures of snf quality. results duals are more likely to be discharged to snfs with a higher share of medicaid patients and fewer nurses. these results are robust to estimation with an alternative subsample of patients based on primary diagnoses  propensity of being dual eligible  and likelihood of remaining in the nursing home. conclusions disparities exist in access to quality snf care for duals. strategies to improve discharge planning processes are required to redirect patients to higher quality providers  regardless of medicaid eligibility.
3829,pandemic h1n12009 influenza and hiv: a review of natural history  management and vaccine immunogenicity.,purpose of review the 2009 pandemic hin1 influenza strain (h1n12009) produced more severe disease and increased risk for mortality. as an at-risk population for more severe influenza illness  particular concern regarding hiv patients triggered a focused effort to evaluate disease burden and vaccine efficacy in these populations. recent findings as with other immune-compromised individuals  most hiv-infected individuals recovered without major consequence. although hiv infection was assumed to be a risk factor for more severe disease and death  the published literature does not indicate this to be so. neuraminadase inhibitors were well tolerated by this population and there was no evidence of clinically significant pharmacokinetic interactions with antiretroviral therapy. immunogenicity was increased with h1n12009 vaccine compared to the historical results of nonpandemic vaccines and optimized by the use of adjuvants. booster dosing was also of benefit. h1n12009 vaccine was generally well tolerated without evidence of detrimental effect on hiv status. summary the worse case scenario was not realized for h1n12009 in the general population or in those with hiv. immunization with adjuvant represents a key measure to protect this population from h1n12009 and other future novel influenza strains.
3831,an acetylation switch in p53 mediates holo-tfiid recruitment.,posttranslational modifications mediate important regulatory functions in biology. the acetylation of the p53 transcription factor  for example  promotes transcriptional activation of target genes including p21. here we show that the acetylation of two lysine residues in p53 promotes recruitment of the tfiid subunit taf1 to the p21 promoter through its bromodomains. uv irradiation of cells diacetylates p53 at lysines 373 and 382  which in turn recruits taf1 to a distal p53-binding site on the p21 promoter prior to looping to the core promoter. disruption of acetyl-p53/bromodomain interaction inhibits taf1 recruitment to both the distal p53-binding site and the core promoter. further  the tfiid subunits taf4  taf5  and tbp are detected on the core promoter prior to taf1  suggesting that  upon dna damage  distinct subunits of tfiid may be recruited separately to the p21 promoter and that the transcriptional activation depends on posttranslational modification of the p53 transcription factor.
3833,bmp receptor alk3 controls collecting system development.,the molecular signals that regulate growth and branching of the ureteric bud during formation of the renal collecting system are largely undefined. members of the bone morphogenetic protein (bmp) family signal through the type i bmp receptor alk3 to inhibit ureteric bud and collecting duct cell morphogenesis in vitro. we investigated the function of the bmp signaling pathway in vivo by generating a murine model of alk3 deficiency restricted to the ureteric bud lineage (alk3(ub-/-) mice). at the onset of branching morphogenesis  alk3(ub-/-) kidneys are characterized by an abnormal primary (1 degrees ) ureteric bud branch pattern and an increased number of ureteric bud branches. however  during later stages of renal development  alk3(ub-/-) kidneys have fewer ureteric bud branches and collecting ducts than wild-type kidneys. postnatal alk3(ub-/-) mice exhibit a dysplastic renal phenotype characterized by hypoplasia of the renal medulla  a decreased number of medullary collecting ducts  and abnormal expression of beta-catenin and c-myc in medullary tubules. in summary  normal kidney development requires alk3-dependent bmp signaling  which controls ureteric bud branching.
3835,the spectrum of retinopathy in adults with plasmodium falciparum malaria,a specific retinopathy has been described in african children with cerebral malaria  but in adults this has not been extensively studied. since the structure and function of the retinal vasculature greatly resembles the cerebral vasculature  study of retinal changes can reveal insights into the pathophysiology of cerebral malaria. a detailed observational study of malarial retinopathy in bangladeshi adults was performed using high-definition portable retinal photography. retinopathy was present in 17/27 adults (63%) with severe malaria and 14/20 adults (70%) with cerebral malaria. moderate or severe retinopathy was more frequent in cerebral malaria (11/20  55%) than in uncomplicated malaria (3/15  20%; p=0.039)  bacterial sepsis (0/5  0%; p=0.038) or healthy controls (0/18  0%; p<0.001). the spectrum of malarial retinopathy was similar to that previously described in african children  but no vessel discolouration was observed. the severity of retinal whitening correlated with admission venous plasma lactate (p=0.046)  suggesting that retinal ischaemia represents systemic ischaemia. in conclusion  retinal changes related to microvascular obstruction were common in adults with severe falciparum malaria and correlated with disease severity and coma  suggesting that a compromised microcirculation has important pathophysiological significance in severe and cerebral malaria. portable retinal photography has potential as a valuable tool to study malarial retinopathy.
3837,psgl-1 function in immunity and steady state homeostasis.,the substantial importance of p-selectin glycoprotein ligand 1 (psgl-1) in leukocyte trafficking has continued to emerge beyond its initial identification as a selectin ligand. psgl-1 seemed to be a relatively simple molecule with an extracellular mucin domain extended as a flexible rod  teleologically consistent with its primary role in tethering leukocytes to endothelial selectins. the rolling interaction between leukocyte and endothelium mediated by this selectin-psgl-1 interaction requires branched o-glycan extensions on specific psgl-1 amino acid residues. in some cells  such as neutrophils  the glycosyltransferases involved in formation of the o-glycans are constitutively expressed  while in other cells  such as t cells  they are expressed only after appropriate activation. thus  psgl-1 supports leukocyte recruitment in both innate and adaptive arms of the immune response. a complex array of amino acids within the selectins engage multiple sugar residues of the branched o-glycans on psgl-1 and provide the molecular interactions responsible for the velcro-like catch bonds that support leukocyte rolling. such binding of psgl-1 can also induce signaling events that influence cell phenotype and function. scrutiny of psgl-1 has revealed a better understanding of how it performs as a selectin ligand and yielded unexpected insights that extend its scope from supporting leukocyte rolling in inflammatory settings to homeostasis including stem cell homing to the thymus and mature t-cell homing to secondary lymphoid organs. psgl-1 has been found to bind homeostatic chemokines ccl19 and ccl21 and to support the chemotactic response to these chemokines. surprisingly  the o-glycan modifications of psgl-1 that support rolling mediated by selectins in inflammatory conditions interfere with psgl-1 binding to homeostatic chemokines and thereby limit responsiveness to the chemotactic cues used in steady state t-cell traffic. the multi-level influence of psgl-1 on cell traffic in both inflammatory and steady state settings is therefore substantially determined by the orchestrated addition of o-glycans. however  central as specific o-glycosylation is to psgl-1 function  in vivo regulation of psgl-1 glycosylation in t cells remains poorly understood. it is our purpose herein to review what is known  and not known  of psgl-1 glycosylation and to update understanding of psgl-1 functional scope.
3839,a three-dimensional cell biology model of human hepatocellular carcinoma in vitro,we established an in vitro 3-d model of metastatic hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) by culturing mhcc97h cells on molecular scaffolds within a rotating wall vessel bioreactor. morphological and biochemical analyses revealed that the 3-d hcc model mirrored many clinical pathological features of hcc in vivo  including cancer cell morphology  tissue ultrastructure  protein production and secretion  glucose metabolism  tissue-specific gene expression  and apoptosis. xenografts into livers of nude mice resulted in tumorigenesis and distant metastasis. this 3-d hcc spheroid is a promising model for hcc tumor biology  anticancer drug screening  and for the establishment of hcc animal models.
3841,obesity due to melanocortin 4 receptor (mc4r) deficiency is associated with increased linear growth and final height  fasting hyperinsulinemia  and incompletely suppressed growth hormone secretion.,context melanocortin receptor 4 (mc4r) deficiency is characterized by increased linear growth greater than expected for the degree of obesity. objective the objective of the investigation was to study the somatotroph axis in obese mc4r-deficient patients and equally obese controls. patients and methods we obtained anthropometric measurements and insulin concentrations in 153 mc4r-deficient subjects and 1392 controls matched for age and severity of obesity. we measured fasting igf-i  igf-ii  igf binding protein (igfbp)-1  igfbp-3  and acid-labile subunit levels in a subset of 33 mc4r-deficient patients and 36 control subjects. we examined pulsatile gh secretion in six adult mc4r-deficient subjects and six obese controls. results height sd score was significantly greater in mc4r-deficient children under 5 yr of age compared with controls (mean ± sem: 2.3 ± 0.06 vs. 1.8 ± 0.04  p < 0.001)  an effect that persisted throughout childhood. final height (cm) was greater in mc4r-deficient men (mean ± sem 173 ± 2.5 vs. 168 ± 2.1  p < 0.001) and women (mean 165 ± 2.1 vs. 158 ± 1.9  p < 0.001). fasting igf-i  igf-ii  acid-labile subunit  and igfbp-3 concentrations were similar in the two groups. gh levels were markedly suppressed in obese controls  but pulsatile gh secretion was retained in mc4r deficiency. the mean maximal gh secretion rate per burst (p < 0.05) and mass per burst (p < 0.05) were increased in mc4r deficiency  consistent with increased pulsatile and total gh secretion. fasting insulin levels were markedly elevated in mc4r-deficient children. conclusions in mc4r deficiency  increased linear growth in childhood leads to increased adult final height  greater than predicted by obesity alone. gh pulsatility is maintained in mc4r deficiency  a finding consistent with animal studies  suggesting a role for mc4r in controlling hypothalamic somatostatinergic tone. fasting insulin levels are significantly higher in children carrying mc4r mutations. both of these factors may contribute to the accelerated growth phenotype characteristic of mc4r deficiency.
3843,breast cancer and obesity: an update.,obesity has a complicated relationship to both breast cancer risk and the clinical behavior of the established disease. in postmenopausal women  particularly the elderly  various measures of obesity have been positively associated with risk. however  before menopause increased body weight is inversely related to breast cancer risk. in both premenopausal and postmenopausal breast cancer  the mechanisms by which body weight and obesity affect risk have been related to estrogenic activity. obesity has also been related to advanced disease at diagnosis and with a poor prognosis in both premenopausal and postmenopausal breast cancer. breast cancer in african-american women  considering its relationship to obesity  exhibits some important differences from those described in white women  although the high prevalence of obesity in african-american women may contribute to the relatively poor prognosis compared with white american women. despite the emphasis on estrogens to explain the effects of obesity on breast cancer  other factors may prove to be equally or more important  particularly as they relate to expression of an aggressive tumor phenotype. among these  this review serves to stress insulin  insulin-like growth factor-i  and leptin  and their relationship to angiogenesis  and transcriptional factors.
3845,very small embryonic-like stem cells with maximum regenerative potential get discarded during cord blood banking and bone marrow processing for autologous stem cell therapy.,very small embryonic-like stem cells (vsels) are possibly lost during cord blood banking and bone marrow (bm) processing for autologus stem cell therapy mainly because of their small size. the present study was conducted on human umbilical cord blood (ucb  n=6) and discarded red blood cells (rbc) fraction obtained after separation of mononuclear cells from human bm (n=6)  to test this hypothesis. the results show that vsels  which are pluripotent stem cells with maximum regenerative potential  settle along with the rbcs during ficoll-hypaque density separation. these cells are very small in size (3-5 μm)  have high nucleo-cytoplasmic ratio  and express nuclear oct-4  cell surface protein ssea-4  and other pluripotent markers such as nanog  sox-2  rex-1  and tert as indicated by immunolocalization and quantitative polymerase chain reaction (q-pcr) studies. interestingly  a distinct population of slightly larger  round hematopoietic stem cells (hscs) with cytoplasmic oct-4 were detected in the "buffy" coat  which usually gets banked or used during autologus stem cell therapy. immunohistochemical studies on the umbilical cord tissue (uct) sections (n=3) showed the presence of nuclear oct-4-positive vsels and many fibroblast-like mesenchymal stem cells (mscs) with cytoplasmic oct-4. these vsels with nuclear oct-4  detected in ucb  uct  and discarded rbc fraction obtained after bm processing  may persist throughout life  maintain tissue homeostasis  and undergo asymmetric cell division to self-renew as well as produce larger progenitor stem cells  viz. hscs or mscs  which follow differentiation trajectories depending on the somatic niche. hence  it can be concluded that the true stem cells in adult body tissues are the vsels  whereas the hscs and mscs are actually progenitor stem cells that arise by asymmetric cell division of vsels. the results of the present study may help explain low efficacy reported during adult autologous stem cell trials  wherein unknowingly progenitor stem cells are injected rather than the pluripotent stem cells with maximum regenerative potential.
3847,sperm function tests and fertility.,traditionally  the diagnosis of male infertility has depended upon a descriptive evaluation of human semen with emphasis on the number of spermatozoa that are present in the ejaculate  their motility and their morphology. the fundamental tenet underlying this approach is that male fertility can be defined by reference to a threshold concentration of motile  morphologically normal spermatozoa that must be exceeded in order to achieve conception. many independent studies have demonstrated that this fundamental concept is flawed and  in reality  it is not so much the absolute number of spermatozoa that determines fertility  but their functional competence. in the light of this conclusion  a range of in vitro tests have been developed to monitor various aspects of sperm function including their potential for movement  cervical mucus penetration  capacitation  zona recognition  the acrosome reaction and sperm-oocyte fusion. such functional assays have been found to predict the fertilizing capacity of human spermatozoa in vitro and in vivo with some accuracy. recent developments in this field include the introduction of tests to assess the degree to which human spermatozoa have suffered oxidative stress as well as the integrity of their nuclear and mitochondrial dna. such assessments not only yield information on the fertilizing capacity of human spermatozoa but also their ability to support normal embryonic development.
3849,effect of osteoporosis treatments on risk of non-vertebral fractures: review and meta-analysis of intention-to-treat studies,most osteoporosis treatments have proven efficacy in reducing the risk of vertebral fractures  whereas evidence is less straightforward for prevention of non-vertebral fractures. conclusions as to the efficacy of a treatment should be based primarily on analyses of the intention to treat (itt) population rather than on exploratory subgroup analyses; however  non-vertebral anti-fracture efficacy has been largely derived by post-hoc subgroup analyses. this review and meta-analysis was performed to assess non-vertebral anti-fracture efficacy of several osteoporosis therapies  including a more stringent assessment of the itt populations. data on non-vertebral anti-fracture efficacy  a defined endpoint of the itt analyses and confirmed by radiographs  were obtained from randomized  placebo-controlled  phase iii clinical trials of at least 3-year duration. meta-analyses were performed for the two bisphosphonates  alendronate and risedronate. relative risks (rr)  95% confidence intervals (ci) and statistical significance for active treatment compared with placebo were calculated. eleven clinical trials met the criteria for review  three of which showed statistically significant ( p ≤0.05) non-vertebral anti-fracture efficacy in the itt population: two trials with risedronate and one trial with strontium. a meta-analysis showed significant reductions in the relative risk of non-vertebral fracture for both alendronate (rr=0.86; 95% ci: 0.76–0.97  p =0.012) and risedronate (rr=0.81; 95% ci: 0.71–0.92  p =0.001). risedronate and strontium ranelate were the only treatments to show non-vertebral anti-fracture efficacy in this robust assessment of anti-fracture efficacy of osteoporosis therapy using itt populations in trials of 3 years or more in duration. risedronate was the only agent shown to demonstrate efficacy in more than one trial. meta-analysis showed that both alendronate and risedronate provide non-vertebral anti-fracture efficacy.
3851,tissue transglutaminase (tg2)--a wound response enzyme.,repair of tissue after injury depends on a series of concerted but overlapping events including  inflammation  re-epithelialization  neovascularization and synthesis and stabilization of a fibrous extracellular matrix (ecm) that is remodeled to emulate normal tissue over time. particular members of the transglutaminase (tg) family are upregulated during wound healing and act as a novel class of wound-healing mediators during the repair process. this group of enzymes which crosslink proteins via epsilon(gamma-glutamyl) lysine bridges are involved in wound healing through their ability to stabilize proteins and also by regulating the behavior of a wide variety of cell types that are recruited to the damaged area in order to carry out tissue repair. in this article we discuss the function of the most widely expressed member of the tg family "tissue transglutaminase" (tg2) in wound repair. using both early and recent evidence from the literature we demonstrate how the multifunctional tg2 affects the stability of the ecm  cell-ecm interactions and as a consequence cell behavior within the different phases of wound healing  and highlight how tg2 itself might be exploited for therapeutic use.
3853,effectiveness of screening older people for impaired vision in community setting: systematic review of evidence from randomised controlled trials.,objective to assess whether population screening for impaired vision among older people in the community leads to improvements in vision. design systematic review of randomised controlled trials of population screening in the community that included any assessment of vision or visual function with at least 6 months' follow up. subjects adults aged 65 or over. main outcome measure proportions with visual impairment in intervention and control groups with any method of assessing visual impairment. results there were no trials that primarily assessed visual screening. outcome data on vision were available for 3494 people in five trials of multiphasic assessment. all the trials used self reported measures for vision impairment  both as screening tools and as outcome measures. the inclusion of a visual screening component in the assessment did not result in improvements in self reported visual problems (pooled odds ratio 1.04:95% confidence interval 0.89 to 1.22). a small reduction (11%) in the number of older people with self reported visual problems cannot be excluded. conclusions screening of asymptomatic older people in the community is not justified on present evidence. visual impairment in this age group can usually be reduced with treatment. it is unclear why no benefit was seen. further work is needed to clarify what interventions are appropriate for older people with unreported impairment of vision.
3855,differential effects of n-acetylcysteine  theophylline or bicarbonate on contrast-induced rat renal vasoconstriction,background: vasoconstriction and reactive oxygen species (ros) accumulation following contrast media (cm) injection are the key factors triggering cm-induced nephropathy. we compared the effects of n-acetylcysteine (nac)  theophylline or sodium bicarbonate on intrarenal vasoconstriction and ros generation in a rat model of cm-induced nephropathy. methods: following a 3-day dehydration  sprague-dawley rats received cm (telebrix) or sham ‘cm’ injection of 0.9% saline. part of them received nac  theophylline or bicarbonate prior to cm. medullar renal blood flow was estimated by laser doppler. the animals were sacrificed 1  15 or 30 min after the respective treatments  their kidneys allocated and intrarenal stat-8 isoprostane  pge2 and no assessed. results: vasoconstriction was significantly attenuated by nac. theophylline only mildly attenuated the perfusion drop at 15 min  and was ineffective following 30 min. unlike theophylline or bicarbonate  nac significantly augmented intrarenal pge2. nac  theophylline but not bicarbonate  gradually increased intrarenal no. in all experimental variables  cm-induced ros accumulation  represented by stat-8 isoprostane estimation  progressed undisturbed. conclusions: (1) cm-induced intrarenal vasoconstriction was efficiently prohibited by nac but not bicarbonate or theophylline; (2) the vasodilatory effect of nac was mediated via increased pge2 synthesis  and (3) ros accumulation was a primary renal response to cm-induced injury  not affected by any pharmacologic manipulations.
3857,magnetic resonance imaging for volume estimation of large multinodular goitres: a comparison with scintigraphy.,as a result of increasing interest in non-surgical treatment for the reduction of goitre size the use of magnetic resonance (mr) imaging for volume estimation of large multinodular goitres was evaluated in 20 patients (three males and 17 females; age 61 +/- 21 years) with a multinodular goitre larger than 100 ml. in addition  mr measurements were compared with scintigraphic (sc) volume estimations. intraobserver coefficient of variation (cv) of mr measurements was 2.2 +/- 2.0% (observer 1) and interobserver cv 4.1 +/- 2.2% (observers 1 and 2). in all 20 patients signs of mechanical complications were shown on mr images. for sc measurements intraobserver cv was 7.5 +/- 5.7% (observer 3) and 5.4 +/- 5.1% (observer 4). interobserver cv was 10.1 +/- 6.1%. the correlation between measurements with both methods was not strong (r = 0.665) and the resulting cv was 17.3 +/- 14.2%. underestimation of sc volumes could not be explained by the presence of cysts on the surface of the thyroid. it is concluded that mr imaging can be used for in vivo thyroid volume estimation in large multinodular goitres. the high precision of mr measurements makes this technique potentially useful for the evaluation of thyroid growth and non-surgical treatment for reducing goitre size. scintigraphic volume measurements do not suffice for this purpose. an additional advantage of mr imaging is the detailed anatomical information it provides with regard to mechanical complications of large goitres.
3859,hiv-1 therapy with monoclonal antibody 3bnc117 elicits host immune responses against hiv-1,3bnc117 is a broad and potent neutralizing antibody to hiv-1 that targets the cd4 binding site on the viral envelope spike. when administered passively  this antibody can prevent infection in animal models and suppress viremia in hiv-1–infected individuals. here we report that hiv-1 immunotherapy with a single injection of 3bnc117 affects host antibody responses in viremic individuals. in comparison to untreated controls that showed little change in their neutralizing activity over a 6-month period  3bnc117 infusion significantly improved neutralizing responses to heterologous tier 2 viruses in nearly all study participants. we conclude that 3bnc117-mediated immunotherapy enhances host humoral immunity to hiv-1.
3861,the mechanosensitive ion channel piezo1 is inhibited by the peptide gsmtx4.,cells can respond to mechanical stress by gating mechanosensitive ion channels (mscs). the cloning of piezo1  a eukaryotic cation selective msc  defines a new system for studying mechanical transduction at the cellular level. because piezo1 has electrophysiological properties similar to those of endogenous cationic mscs that are selectively inhibited by the peptide gsmtx4  we tested whether the peptide targets piezo1 activity. extracellular gsmtx4 at micromolar concentrations reversibly inhibited ∼80% of the mechanically induced current of outside-out patches from transfected hek293 cells. the inhibition was voltage insensitive  and as seen with endogenous mscs  the mirror image d enantiomer inhibited like the l. the rate constants for binding and unbinding based on piezo1 current kinetics provided association and dissociation rates of 7.0 × 10(5) m(-1) s(-1) and 0.11 s(-1)  respectively  and a k(d) of ∼155 nm  similar to values previously reported for endogenous mscs. consistent with predicted gating modifier behavior  gsmtx4 produced an ∼30 mmhg rightward shift in the pressure-gating curve and was active on closed channels. in contrast  streptomycin  a nonspecific inhibitor of cationic mscs  showed the use-dependent inhibition characteristic of open channel block. the peptide did not block currents of the mechanical channel trek-1 on outside-out patches. whole-cell piezo1 currents were also reversibly inhibited by gsmtx4  and although the off rate was nearly identical to that of outside-out patches  differences were observed for the on rate. the ability of gsmtx4 to target the mechanosensitivity of piezo1 supports the use of this channel in high-throughput screens for pharmacological agents and diagnostic assays.
3863,a novel ku70 function in colorectal homeostasis separate from nonhomologous end joining,ku70  a known nonhomologous end-joining (nhej) factor  also functions in tumor suppression  although this molecular mechanism remains uncharacterized. previously  we showed that mice deficient for dna ligase iv (lig4)  another key nhej factor  succumbed to aggressive lymphoma in the absence of tumor suppressor p53. however  the tumor phenotype is abrogated by the introduction of a hypomorphic mutant p53r172p  which impaired p53-mediated apoptosis but not cell-cycle arrest. however  lig4−/−p53r172p mice succumbed to severe diabetes. to further elucidate the role of nhej and p53-mediated apoptosis in vivo  we bred ku70−/− p53r172p mice. unexpectedly  these mice were free of diabetes  although 80% of the mutant mice had abnormally enlarged colons with pronounced inflammation. remarkably  most of these mutant mice progressed to dysplasia  adenoma and adenocarcinoma; this is in contrast to the lig4−/−p53r172p phenotype  strongly suggesting an nhej-independent function of ku70. significantly  our analyses of ku70−/−p53r172p colonic epithelial cells show nuclear stabilization of β-catenin accompanied by higher expression of cyclin d1 and c-myc in affected colon sections than in control samples. this is not due to the p53 mutation  as ku70−/− mice share this phenotype. our results not only unravel a novel function of ku70 essential for colon homeostasis  but also establish an excellent in vivo model in which to study how chronic inflammation and abnormal cellular proliferation underlie tumorigenesis and tumor progression in the colon.
3865,pgap2 mutations  affecting the gpi-anchor-synthesis pathway  cause hyperphosphatasia with mental retardation syndrome.,recently  mutations in genes involved in the biosynthesis of the glycosylphosphatidylinositol (gpi) anchor have been identified in a new subclass of congenital disorders of glycosylation (cdgs) with a distinct spectrum of clinical features. to date  mutations have been identified in six genes (piga  pigl  pigm  pign  pigo  and pigv) encoding proteins in the gpi-anchor-synthesis pathway in individuals with severe neurological features  including seizures  muscular hypotonia  and intellectual disability. we developed a diagnostic gene panel for targeting all known genes encoding proteins in the gpi-anchor-synthesis pathway to screen individuals matching these features  and we detected three missense mutations in pgap2  c.46c>t  c.380t>c  and c.479c>t  in two unrelated individuals with hyperphosphatasia with mental retardation syndrome (hpmrs). the mutations cosegregated in the investigated families. pgap2 is involved in fatty-acid gpi-anchor remodeling  which occurs in the golgi apparatus and is required for stable association between gpi-anchored proteins and the cell-surface membrane rafts. transfection of the altered protein constructs  p. arg16trp (np_001243169.1)  p. leu127ser  and p. thr160ile  into pgap2-null cells showed only partial restoration of gpi-anchored marker proteins  cd55 and cd59  on the cell surface. in this work  we show that an impairment of gpi-anchor remodeling also causes hpmrs and conclude that targeted sequencing of the genes encoding proteins in the gpi-anchor-synthesis pathway is an effective diagnostic approach for this subclass of cdgs.
3867,dual role of interleukin-10 in the regulation of respiratory syncitial virus (rsv)-induced lung inflammation.,rsv lower respiratory tract infections (lrti) are among the most common diseases necessitating hospital admission in children. in addition to causing acute respiratory failure  rsv infections are associated with sequelae such as secondary bacterial infections and reactive airway disease. one characteristic host response observed in severe rsv-induced lrti and/or subsequent development of asthma is increased expression of interleukin (il)-10. however  contradictory results have been reported regarding whether il-10 inhibits asthmatic responses or intensifies the disease. we aimed to reconcile these discordant observations by elucidating the role of il-10 in regulating the host response to rsv lrti. in this study  we used a lung-specific  inducible il-10 over-expression (oe) transgenic mouse model to address this question. our results showed that the presence of il-10 at the time of rsv infection not only attenuated acute inflammatory process (i.e. 24 h post-infection)  but also late inflammatory changes [characterized by t helper type 2 (th2) cytokine and chemokine expression]. while this result appears contradictory to some clinical observations where elevated il-10 levels are observed in asthmatic patients  we also found that delaying il-10 oe until the late immune response to rsv infection  additive effects rather than inhibitory effects were observed. importantly  in non-infected  il-10 oe mice  il-10 oe alone induced up-regulation of th2 cytokine (il-13 and il-5) and th2-related chemokine [monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 (mcp-1)  chemokine (c-c motif) ligand 3 (ccl3) and regulated upon activation normal t cell expressed and secreted (rantes)] expression. we identified a subset of cd11b(+)cd11c(+)cd49b(+)f4/80(-)gr-1(-) myeloid cells as a prinicipal source of il-10-induced il-13 production. therefore  the augmented pathological responses observed in our 'delayed' il-10 over-expression model could be attributed to il-10 oe alone. taken together  our study indicated dual roles of il-10 on rsv-induced lung inflammation which appear to depend upon the timing of when elevated il-10 is expressed in the lung.
3869,crizotinib in ros1-rearranged non-small-cell lung cancer.,background chromosomal rearrangements of the gene encoding ros1 proto-oncogene receptor tyrosine kinase (ros1) define a distinct molecular subgroup of non-small-cell lung cancers (nsclcs) that may be susceptible to therapeutic ros1 kinase inhibition. crizotinib is a small-molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitor of anaplastic lymphoma kinase (alk)  ros1  and another proto-oncogene receptor tyrosine kinase  met. methods we enrolled 50 patients with advanced nsclc who tested positive for ros1 rearrangement in an expansion cohort of the phase 1 study of crizotinib. patients were treated with crizotinib at the standard oral dose of 250 mg twice daily and assessed for safety  pharmacokinetics  and response to therapy. ros1 fusion partners were identified with the use of next-generation sequencing or reverse-transcriptase-polymerase-chain-reaction assays. results the objective response rate was 72% (95% confidence interval [ci]  58 to 84)  with 3 complete responses and 33 partial responses. the median duration of response was 17.6 months (95% ci  14.5 to not reached). median progression-free survival was 19.2 months (95% ci  14.4 to not reached)  with 25 patients (50%) still in follow-up for progression. among 30 tumors that were tested  we identified 7 ros1 fusion partners: 5 known and 2 novel partner genes. no correlation was observed between the type of ros1 rearrangement and the clinical response to crizotinib. the safety profile of crizotinib was similar to that seen in patients with alk-rearranged nsclc. conclusions in this study  crizotinib showed marked antitumor activity in patients with advanced ros1-rearranged nsclc. ros1 rearrangement defines a second molecular subgroup of nsclc for which crizotinib is highly active. (funded by pfizer and others; clinicaltrials.gov number  nct00585195.).
3871,the pathophysiology of protein-overload proteinuria.,alterations in glomerular function and structure were studied in protein-overload nephrosis in the rat induced by intraperitoneal administration of bovine serum albumin (bsa). fractional clearance (c/gfr) studies using inulin and tracer proteins of different molecular size and charge revealed in proteinuric rats 1) unchanged glomerular filtration rate and renal plasma flow; 2) a 34-fold increase in c/gfr of rat serum albumin  reaching values similar to bsa; 3) a 2-fold increase in c/gfr for anionic horse radish peroxidase (hrp)  but normal values for neutral and cationic hrp  and 4) an 11- and 3-fold increase for heterologous igg and igm  respectively. glomerular epithelial cells showed degenerative changes  but the distribution of anionic sites in the glomerular basement membrane was found to be unaltered  as determined by polyethyleneimine binding studies. in summary  an elevation of serum albumin concentration resulted in an increased transcapillary albumin transport. this was found to lead to degenerative changes of glomerular epithelial cells with development of large pore defects  which were completely reversible.
3873,ctbp3/bars drives membrane fission in dynamin-independent transport pathways,membrane fission is a fundamental step in membrane transport. so far  the only fission protein machinery that has been implicated in in vivo transport involves dynamin  and functions in several  but not all  transport pathways. thus  other fission machineries may exist. here  we report that carboxy-terminal binding protein 3/brefeldin a-ribosylated substrate (ctbp3/bars) controls fission in basolateral transport from the golgi to the plasma membrane and in fluid-phase endocytosis  whereas dynamin is not involved in these steps. conversely  ctbp3/bars protein is inactive in apical transport to the plasma membrane and in receptor-mediated endocytosis  both steps being controlled by dynamin. this indicates that ctbp3/bars controls membrane fission in endocytic and exocytic transport pathways  distinct from those that require dynamin.
3875,extrapulmonary effects of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease on physical activity: a cross-sectional study.,rationale physical activity is reduced in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd). copd has a systemic component that includes significant extrapulmonary effects that may contribute to its severity in individual patients. objectives to investigate the association of extrapulmonary effects of the disease and its comorbidities with reduced physical activity in patients with copd. methods in a cross-sectional study  170 outpatients with copd (gold [global initiative for chronic obstructive lung disease] stages i-iv; bode [body mass index  airway obstruction  dyspnea  and exercise capacity] score 0-10) underwent a series of tests. physical activity was assessed over 5 to 6 consecutive days by using a multisensor accelerometer armband that records steps per day and the physical activity level (total daily energy expenditure divided by whole-night sleeping energy expenditure). cardiovascular status was assessed by echocardiography  vascular doppler sonography  and levels of n-terminal pro-b-type natriuretic peptide. mental status  metabolic/muscular status  systemic inflammation  and anemia were assessed by beck depression inventory  bioelectrical impedance analysis  handgrip strength  high-sensitivity c-reactive protein/fibrinogen  and hemoglobin  respectively. measurements and main results in a multivariate linear regression analysis using either steps per day or physical activity level as a dependent variable  the extrapulmonary parameters that were associated with reduced physical activity in patients with copd independently of gold stages or bode score were n-terminal pro-b-type natriuretic peptide levels  echocardiographically measured left ventricular diastolic function  and systemic inflammation. conclusions higher values of systemic inflammation and left cardiac dysfunction are associated with reduced physical activity in patients with copd.
3877,the complexity of human ribosome biogenesis revealed by systematic nucleolar screening of pre-rrna processing factors.,mature ribosomal rnas (rrnas) are produced from polycistronic precursors following complex processing. precursor (pre)-rrna processing has been extensively characterized in yeast and was assumed to be conserved in humans. we functionally characterized 625 nucleolar proteins in hela cells and identified 286 required for processing  including 74 without a yeast homolog. for selected candidates  we demonstrated that pre-rrna processing defects are conserved in different cell types (including primary cells)  defects are not due to activation of a p53-dependent nucleolar tumor surveillance pathway  and they precede cell-cycle arrest and apoptosis. we also investigated the exosome's role in processing internal transcribed spacers (itss) and report that 3' end maturation of 18s rrna involves exosc10/rrp6  a yeast its2 processing factor. we conclude that human cells adopt unique strategies and recruit distinct trans-acting factors to carry out essential processing steps  posing fundamental implications for understanding ribosomopathies at the molecular level and developing effective therapeutic agents.
3879,penaeus monodon dscam (pmdscam) has a highly diverse cytoplasmic tail and is the first membrane-bound shrimp dscam to be reported.,down syndrome cell adhesion molecule (dscam) seems likely to play a key role in the "alternative adaptive immunity" that has been reported in invertebrates. dscam consists of a cytoplasmic tail that is involved in signal transduction and a hypervariable extracellular region that might use a pathogen recognition mechanism similar to that used by the vertebrate antibodies. in our previous paper  we isolated a unique tail-less form of dscam from litopenaeus vannamei. in this study  we report the first membrane-bound form of shrimp dscam: pmdscam was isolated from penaeus monodon  and it occurred in both membrane-bound and tail-less forms. phylogenetic analysis showed that while the crustacean dscams from shrimp and water flea did not share a single subclade  they were distinct from the invertebrate dscam-like molecules and from the insecta dscams. in the extracellular region  the variable regions of pmdscam were located in n-terminal ig2  n-terminal ig3 and the entire ig7 domain. the pmdscam extracellular variants and transmembrane domain variants were produced by mutually exclusive alternative splicing events. the cytoplasmic tail variants were produced by exon inclusion/exclusion. based on the genomic organization of daphnia dscam's cytoplasmic tail  we propose a model of how the shrimp dscam genomic locus might use type iii polyadenylation to generate both the tail-less and membrane-bound forms.
3881,targeting oxidative stress to treat endometriosis.,introduction endometriosis affects 10% of women of reproductive age. it is defined as the presence of implanted active endometrial tissue outside the uterine cavity. the exact pathophysiology of endometriosis is still uncertain  although several optional etiological theories have been suggested. being so common  a novel treatment for endometriosis is widely quested. recent studies addressing the pathological characteristics of endometriosis have revealed a vicious cycle in which oxidative stress (os) is generated  which in turn facilitates the implantation of the ectopic endometrium. at the same time  the generation of high amounts of reactive oxygen species further triggers a state of os. areas covered the author examined the evidence associating os and endometriosis. after establishing an association  a search for antioxidant agents that were investigated specifically on endometriosis patients are described including vitamins c and e  melatonin  resveratrol  xanthohumol and epigallocatechin-3-gallate. a significant effect of all the reviewed antioxidants on endometriosis is reported. expert opinion aiming for the reduction of os as the treatment goal for endometriosis looks promising. however  since most of the studies are either in vitro or are animal based  further studies on human subjects are deemed necessary to elucidate the impact of os reduction on patients with endometriosis.
3883,vanishing cerebellar infarcts in a migraine patient.,recent population-based studies have suggested that migraine is a risk factor for the development of infarct-like lesions in the territory of the posterior circulation. these lesions are thought to be true vascular infarcts based on their size  location and magnetic resonance imaging (mri) characteristics. however  as there are no postmortem studies identifying the pathology of these mri findings  their true aetiology is unknown. a case patient with migraine is presented  who developed what appeared to be cerebellar infarcts on mri  but these lesions vanished on repeat imaging 16 days later  questioning their aetiology as vascular ischaemic based infarcts.
3885,treatments for somnambulism in adults: assessing the evidence.,somnambulism  or sleepwalking  is a parasomnia of non-rapid eye movement (nrem) sleep where movement behaviours usually confined to wakefulness are displayed during sleep. generally  if sleepwalking is causing distress or danger in spite of safety measures  medical or psychological treatment is indicated. clinicians will need to assess the evidence for treatment options. medline  embase  psycinfo and the ovid evidence-based medicine reviews (ebm) multifile databases were searched. no properly powered rigorous controlled trials were found for treatment of sleepwalking in adults. seven reports described small trials with some kind of control arm  or retrospective case series which included 30 or more patients. with no high quality evidence to underpin recommendations for treatments of somnambulism  full discussion with patients is advised. adequately powered  well-designed clinical trials are now needed  and multi-centre collaborations may be required to obtain the sample sizes required.
3887,blockade of the angiotensin system improves mental health domain of quality of life: a meta-analysis of randomized clinical trials,objective: it is unclear whether blockade of the angiotensin system has effects on mental health. our objective was to determine the impact of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin ii type 1 receptor (at1r) blockers on mental health domain of quality of life. study design: meta-analysis of published literature. data sources: pubmed and clinicaltrials.gov databases. the last search was conducted in january 2017. study selection: randomized controlled trials comparing any angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor or at1r blocker versus placebo or non-angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor or non-at1r blocker were selected. study participants were adults without any major physical symptoms. we adhered to meta-analysis reporting methods as per prisma and the cochrane collaboration. data synthesis: eleven studies were included in the analysis. when compared with placebo or other antihypertensive medications  at1r blockers and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors were associated with improved overall quality of life (standard mean difference = 0.11  95% confidence interval = [0.08  0.14]  p < 0.0001)  positive wellbeing (standard mean difference = 0.11  95% confidence interval = [0.05  0.17]  p < 0.0001)  mental (standard mean difference = 0.15  95% confidence interval = [0.06  0.25]  p < 0.0001)  and anxiety (standard mean difference = 0.08  95% confidence interval = [0.01  0.16]  p < 0.0001) domains of qol. no significant difference was found for the depression domain (standard mean difference = 0.05  95% confidence interval = [0.02  0.12]  p = 0.15). conclusions: use of angiotensin blockers and inhibitors for the treatment of hypertension in otherwise healthy adults is associated with improved mental health domains of quality of life. mental health quality of life was a secondary outcome in the included studies. research specifically designed to analyse the usefulness of drugs that block the angiotensin system is necessary to properly evaluate this novel psychiatric target.
3889,a framework for understanding and targeting residual disease in oncogene-driven solid cancers,molecular targeted therapy has the potential to dramatically improve survival in patients with cancer. however  complete and durable responses to targeted therapy are rare in individuals with advanced-stage solid cancers. even the most effective targeted therapies generally do not induce a complete tumor response  resulting in residual disease and tumor progression that limits patient survival. we discuss the emerging need to more fully understand the molecular basis of residual disease as a prelude to designing therapeutic strategies to minimize or eliminate residual disease so that we can move from temporary to chronic control of disease  or a cure  for patients with advanced-stage solid cancers. ultimately  we propose a shift from the current reactive paradigm of analyzing and treating acquired drug resistance to a pre-emptive paradigm of defining the mechanisms that result in residual disease  to target and limit this disease reservoir.
3891,structural and mechanistic insights into phospholipid transfer by ups1–mdm35 in mitochondria,eukaryotic cells are compartmentalized into membrane-bounded organelles whose functions rely on lipid trafficking to achieve membrane-specific compositions of lipids. here we focused on the ups1-mdm35 system  which mediates phosphatidic acid (pa) transfer between the outer and inner mitochondrial membranes  and determined the x-ray structures of mdm35 and ups1-mdm35 with and without pa. the ups1-mdm35 complex constitutes a single domain that has a deep pocket and flexible ω-loop lid. structure-based mutational analyses revealed that a basic residue at the pocket bottom and the ω-loop lid are important for pa extraction from the membrane following ups1 binding. ups1 binding to the membrane is enhanced by the dissociation of mdm35. we also show that basic residues around the pocket entrance are important for ups1 binding to the membrane and pa extraction. these results provide a structural basis for understanding the mechanism of pa transfer between mitochondrial membranes.
3893,systemic inflammatory response syndrome  quick sequential organ function assessment  and organ dysfunction: insights from a prospective database of ed patients with infection,background: a proposed revision of sepsis definitions has abandoned the systemic inflammatory response syndrome (sirs)  defined organ dysfunction as an increase in total sequential organ function assessment (sofa) score of ≥ 2  and conceived “qsofa” (quick sofa) as a bedside indicator of organ dysfunction. we aimed to (1) determine the prognostic impact of sirs  (2) compare the diagnostic accuracy of sirs and qsofa for organ dysfunction  and (3) compare standard (sepsis‐2) and revised (sepsis‐3) definitions for organ dysfunction in ed patients with infection. methods: consecutive ed patients admitted with presumed infection were prospectively enrolled over 3 years. sufficient observational data were collected to calculate sirs  qsofa  sofa  comorbidity  and mortality. results: we enrolled 8 871 patients  with sirs present in 4 176 (47.1%). sirs was associated with increased risk of organ dysfunction (relative risk [rr] 3.5) and mortality in patients without organ dysfunction (or 3.2). sirs and qsofa showed similar discrimination for organ dysfunction (area under the receiver operating characteristic curve  0.72 vs 0.73). qsofa was specific but poorly sensitive for organ dysfunction (96.1% and 29.7%  respectively). mortality for patients with organ dysfunction was similar for sepsis‐2 and sepsis‐3 (12.5% and 11.4%  respectively)  although 29% of patients with sepsis‐3 organ dysfunction did not meet sepsis‐2 criteria. increasing numbers of sepsis‐2 organ system dysfunctions were associated with greater mortality. conclusions: sirs was associated with organ dysfunction and mortality  and abandoning the concept appears premature. a qsofa score ≥ 2 showed high specificity  but poor sensitivity may limit utility as a bedside screening method. although mortality for organ dysfunction was comparable between sepsis‐2 and sepsis‐3  more prognostic and clinical information is conveyed using sepsis‐2 regarding number and type of organ dysfunctions. the sofa score may require recalibration.
3895,pathways disrupted in human als motor neurons identified through genetic correction of mutant sod1.,although many distinct mutations in a variety of genes are known to cause amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (als)  it remains poorly understood how they selectively impact motor neuron biology and whether they converge on common pathways to cause neuronal degeneration. here  we have combined reprogramming and stem cell differentiation approaches with genome engineering and rna sequencing to define the transcriptional and functional changes that are induced in human motor neurons by mutant sod1. mutant sod1 protein induced a transcriptional signature indicative of increased oxidative stress  reduced mitochondrial function  altered subcellular transport  and activation of the er stress and unfolded protein response pathways. functional studies demonstrated that these pathways were perturbed in a manner dependent on the sod1 mutation. finally  interrogation of stem-cell-derived motor neurons produced from als patients harboring a repeat expansion in c9orf72 indicates that at least a subset of these changes are more broadly conserved in als.
3897,tgfbeta/activin/nodal signaling is necessary for the maintenance of pluripotency in human embryonic stem cells.,human embryonic stem cells (hescs) self-renew indefinitely and give rise to derivatives of all three primary germ layers  yet little is known about the signaling cascades that govern their pluripotent character. because it plays a prominent role in the early cell fate decisions of embryonic development  we have examined the role of tgfbeta superfamily signaling in hescs. we found that  in undifferentiated cells  the tgfbeta/activin/nodal branch is activated (through the signal transducer smad2/3) while the bmp/gdf branch (smad1/5) is only active in isolated mitotic cells. upon early differentiation  smad2/3 signaling is decreased while smad1/5 signaling is activated. we next tested the functional role of tgfbeta/activin/nodal signaling in hescs and found that it is required for the maintenance of markers of the undifferentiated state. we extend these findings to show that smad2/3 activation is required downstream of wnt signaling  which we have previously shown to be sufficient to maintain the undifferentiated state of hescs. strikingly  we show that in ex vivo mouse blastocyst cultures  smad2/3 signaling is also required to maintain the inner cell mass (from which stem cells are derived). these data reveal a crucial role for tgfbeta signaling in the earliest stages of cell fate determination and demonstrate an interconnection between tgfbeta and wnt signaling in these contexts.
3899,diminished linear growth during intermittent calcitriol therapy in children undergoing ccpd.,daily calcitriol therapy has been reported to improve linear growth in children with renal bone disease  and 1 25-dihydroxyvitamin d is a key regultor of chondrocyte proliferation and differentiation. whereas large intermittent doses of calcitriol can lower serum parathyroid hormone (pth) levels and reverse the skeletal changes of secondary hyperparathyroidism  the impact of intermittent calcitriol therapy on linear growth in children is not known. thus  we studied 16 pre-pubertal patients with bone biopsy-proven secondary hyperparathyroidism who completed a 12-month prospective clinical trial of intermittent calcitriol therapy. biochemical results and growth data obtained during intermittent calcitriol therapy were compared to values determined during the preceding 12 months of daily calcitriol therapy in each study subject; changes in bone histology were assessed after one year of intermittent calcitriol therapy. z-scores for height did not change during 12 months of daily calcitriol therapy. although the skeletal lesions of secondary hyperparathyroidism improved in most patients  z-scores for height decreased from -1.8 +/- 0.32 to -2.0 +/- 0.33  p < 0.01  during intermittent calcitriol therapy. the largest reductions were seen in patients who developed adynamic bone lesions after 12 months of treatment. delta z-scores for height correlated with serum pth  r = 0.71  p < 0.01  and alkaline phosphatase levels  r = 0.67  p < 0.01  during intermittent calcitriol therapy but not during daily calcitriol therapy. the data suggest that high dose intermittent calcitriol therapy adversely affects linear growth  particularly in patients with the adynamic lesion. the higher doses of calcitriol or the intermittent schedule of calcitriol administration may directly inhibit chondrocyte activity within growth plate cartilage of children with end-stage renal disease.
3901,changing the density of alcohol outlets to reduce alcohol-related problems.,increasingly  it seems  legal and political debates regarding the granting of new liquor licences are turning to the issue of whether the number and density of alcohol outlets makes a difference in rates of alcohol consumption and alcohol-related harm. but what is the state of the evidence on this question? in this harm reduction digest livingston  chikritzhs and room review the research literature on the effects of density of alcohol sales outlets on alcohol consumption and alcohol-related problems; suggest a new way of conceptualising the relationships; and discuss the implications for reducing alcohol-related harm.
3903,maximizing the diagnostic utility of endoscopic biopsy in dogs and cats with gastrointestinal disease.,flexible endoscopy has become a valuable tool for the diagnosis of many small animal gastrointestinal (gi) diseases  but the techniques must be performed carefully so that the results are meaningful. this article reviews the current diagnostic utility of flexible endoscopy  including practical/technical considerations for endoscopic biopsy  optimal instrumentation for mucosal specimen collection  the correlation of endoscopic indices to clinical activity and to histopathologic findings  and new developments in the endoscopic diagnosis of gi disease. recent studies have defined endoscopic biopsy guidelines for the optimal number and quality of diagnostic specimens from different regions of the gut. they also have shown the value of ileal biopsy in the diagnosis of canine and feline chronic enteropathies  and have demonstrated the utility of endoscopic biopsy specimens beyond routine hematoxylin and eosin histopathological analysis  including their use in immunohistochemical  microbiological  and molecular studies.
3905,helicobacter pylori alpa and alpb bind host laminin and influence gastric inflammation in gerbils.,helicobacter pylori persistently colonizes humans  causing gastritis  ulcers  and gastric cancer. adherence to the gastric epithelium has been shown to enhance inflammation  yet only a few h. pylori adhesins have been paired with targets in host tissue. the alpab locus has been reported to encode adhesins involved in adherence to human gastric tissue. we report that abrogation of h. pylori alpa and alpb reduces binding of h. pylori to laminin while expression of plasmid-borne alpa or alpb confers laminin-binding ability to escherichia coli. an h. pylori strain lacking only alpb is also deficient in laminin binding. thus  we conclude that both alpa and alpb contribute to h. pylori laminin binding. contrary to expectations  the h. pylori ss1 mutant deficient in alpa and alpb causes more severe inflammation than the isogenic wild-type strain in gerbils. identification of laminin as the target of alpa and alpb will facilitate future investigations of host-pathogen interactions occurring during h. pylori infection.
3907,ribosomal protein s9 is a novel b23/npm-binding protein required for normal cell proliferation.,b23 (npm/nucleophosmin) is a multifunctional nucleolar protein and a member of the nucleoplasmin superfamily of acidic histone chaperones. b23 is essential for normal embryonic development and plays an important role in genomic stability  ribosome biogenesis  and anti-apoptotic signaling. altered protein expression or genomic mutation of b23 is encountered in many different forms of cancer. although described as multifunctional  a genuine molecular function of b23 is not fully understood. here we show that b23 is associated with a protein complex consisting of ribosomal proteins and ribosome-associated rna helicases. a novel  rna-independent interaction between ribosomal protein s9 (rps9) and b23 was further investigated. we found that s9 binding requires an intact b23 oligomerization domain. depletion of s9 by small interfering rna resulted in decreased protein synthesis and g(1) cell cycle arrest  in association with induction of p53 target genes. we determined that s9 is a short-lived protein in the absence of ribosome biogenesis  and proteasomal inhibition significantly increased s9 protein level. overexpression of b23 facilitated nucleolar storage of s9  whereas knockdown of b23 led to diminished levels of nucleolar s9. our results suggest that b23 selectively stores  and protects ribosomal protein s9 in nucleoli and therefore could facilitate ribosome biogenesis.
3909,public health  academic medicine  and the alcohol industry's corporate social responsibility activities.,we explored the emerging relationships among the alcohol industry  academic medicine  and the public health community in the context of public health theory dealing with corporate social responsibility. we reviewed sponsorship of scientific research  efforts to influence public perceptions of research  dissemination of scientific information  and industry-funded policy initiatives. to the extent that the scientific evidence supports the reduction of alcohol consumption through regulatory and legal measures  the academic community has come into increasing conflict with the views of the alcohol industry. we concluded that the alcohol industry has intensified its scientific and policy-related activities under the general framework of corporate social responsibility initiatives  most of which can be described as instrumental to the industry's economic interests.
3911,genetic and biochemical interactions among yar1  ltv1 and rps3 define novel links between environmental stress and ribosome biogenesis in saccharomyces cerevisiae.,in the yeast s. cerevisiae  ribosome assembly is linked to environmental conditions by the coordinate transcriptional regulation of genes required for ribosome biogenesis. in this study we show that two nonessential stress-responsive genes  yar1 and ltv1  function in 40s subunit production. we provide genetic and biochemical evidence that yar1  a small ankyrin-repeat protein  physically interacts with rps3  a component of the 40s subunit  and with ltv1  a protein recently identified as a substoichiometric component of a 43s preribosomal particle. we demonstrate that cells lacking yar1 or ltv1 are hypersensitive to particular protein synthesis inhibitors and exhibit aberrant polysome profiles  with a reduced absolute number of 40s subunits and an excess of free 60s subunits. surprisingly  both mutants are also hypersensitive to a variety of environmental stress conditions. overexpression of rps3 suppresses both the stress sensitivity and the ribosome biogenesis defect of deltayar1 mutants  but does not suppress either defect in deltaltv1 mutants. we propose that yar1 and ltv1 play distinct  nonessential roles in 40s subunit production. the stress-sensitive phenotypes of strains lacking these genes reveal a hitherto unknown link between ribosome biogenesis factors and environmental stress sensitivity.
3913,hospital volume and the outcomes of mechanical ventilation.,background an increased volume of patients is associated with improved survival in numerous high-risk medical and surgical conditions. the relationship between the number of patients admitted (hospital volume) and outcome among patients with critical illnesses is unknown. methods we analyzed data from 20 241 nonsurgical patients receiving mechanical ventilation at 37 acute care hospitals in the acute physiology and chronic health evaluation clinical information system from 2002 through 2003. multivariate analyses were performed to adjust for the severity of illness and other differences in the case mix. results an increase in hospital volume was associated with improved survival among patients receiving mechanical ventilation in the intensive care unit (icu) and in the hospital. admission to a hospital in the highest quartile according to volume (i.e.  >400 patients receiving mechanical ventilation per year) was associated with a 37 percent reduction in the adjusted odds of death in the icu as compared with admission to hospitals in the lowest quartile (< or =150 patients receiving mechanical ventilation per year  p<0.001). in-hospital mortality was similarly reduced (adjusted odds ratio  0.66; 95 percent confidence interval  0.52 to 0.83; p<0.001). a typical patient in a hospital in a low-volume quartile would have an adjusted in-hospital mortality of 34.2 percent as compared with 25.5 percent in a hospital in a high-volume quartile. among survivors  there were no significant trends in the length of stay in the icu or the hospital. conclusions mechanical ventilation of patients in a hospital with a high case volume is associated with reduced mortality. further research is needed to determine the mechanism of the relationship between volume and outcome among patients with a critical illness.
3915,es cell pluripotency and germ-layer formation require the swi/snf chromatin remodeling component baf250a.,atp-dependent chromatin remodeling complexes are a notable group of epigenetic modifiers that use the energy of atp hydrolysis to change the structure of chromatin  thereby altering its accessibility to nuclear factors. baf250a (arid1a) is a unique and defining subunit of the baf chromatin remodeling complex with the potential to facilitate chromosome alterations critical during development. our studies show that ablation of baf250a in early mouse embryos results in developmental arrest (about embryonic day 6.5) and absence of the mesodermal layer  indicating its critical role in early germ-layer formation. moreover  baf250a deficiency compromises es cell pluripotency  severely inhibits self-renewal  and promotes differentiation into primitive endoderm-like cells under normal feeder-free culture conditions. interestingly  this phenotype can be partially rescued by the presence of embryonic fibroblast cells. dna microarray  immunostaining  and rna analyses revealed that baf250a-mediated chromatin remodeling contributes to the proper expression of numerous genes involved in es cell self-renewal  including sox2  utf1  and oct4. furthermore  the pluripotency defects in baf250a mutant es cells appear to be cell lineage-specific. for example  embryoid body-based analyses demonstrated that baf250a-ablated stem cells are defective in differentiating into fully functional mesoderm-derived cardiomyocytes and adipocytes but are capable of differentiating into ectoderm-derived neurons. our results suggest that baf250a is a key component of the gene regulatory machinery in es cells controlling self-renewal  differentiation  and cell lineage decisions.
3917,acyl and total ghrelin are suppressed strongly by ingested proteins  weakly by lipids  and biphasically by carbohydrates.,context ghrelin is an orexigenic hormone that can increase body weight. its circulating levels increase before meals and are suppressed after food ingestion. understanding the effects of specific types of ingested macronutrients on ghrelin regulation could facilitate the design of weight-reducing diets. objective we sought to understand how ingestion of carbohydrates  proteins  or lipids affect acyl (bioactive) and total ghrelin levels among human subjects  hypothesizing that lipids might suppress ghrelin levels less effectively than do either carbohydrates or proteins. design this was a randomized  within-subjects cross-over study. setting the study was conducted at a university clinical research center. participants there were 16 healthy human subjects included in the study. interventions isocaloric  isovolemic beverages composed primarily of carbohydrates  proteins  or lipids were provided. main outcome measures the magnitude of postprandial suppression of total and acyl ghrelin levels (measured with a novel acyl-selective  two-site elisa) was determined. results all beverages suppressed plasma acyl and total ghrelin levels. a significant effect of macronutrient class on decremental area under the curve for both acyl and total ghrelin was observed; the rank order for magnitude of suppression was protein more than carbohydrate more than lipid. total ghrelin nadir levels were significantly lower after both carbohydrate and protein  compared with lipid beverages. in the first 3 postprandial hours  the rank order for acyl and total ghrelin suppression was carbohydrate more than protein more than lipid. in the subsequent 3 h  there was a marked rebound above preprandial values of acyl and total ghrelin after carbohydrate ingestion alone. conclusions these findings suggest possible mechanisms contributing to the effects of high-protein/low-carbohydrate diets to promote weight loss  and high-fat diets to promote weight gain.
3919,fear of falling and visual field loss from glaucoma.,objective to determine if visual field (vf) loss resulting from glaucoma is associated with greater fear of falling. design prospective  observational study. participants fear of falling was compared between 83 glaucoma subjects with bilateral vf loss and 60 control subjects with good visual acuity and without significant vf loss recruited from patients followed up for suspicion of glaucoma. methods participants completed the university of illinois at chicago fear of falling questionnaire. the extent of fear of falling was assessed using rasch analysis. main outcome measures subject ability to perform tasks without fear of falling was expressed in logits  with lower scores implying less ability and greater fear of falling. results glaucoma subjects had greater vf loss than control subjects (median better-eye mean deviation [md] of -8.0 decibels [db] vs. +0.2 db; p<0.001)  but did not differ with regard to age  race  gender  employment status  the presence of other adults in the home  body mass index (bmi)  grip strength  cognitive ability  mood  or comorbid illness (p ≥ 0.1 for all). in multivariate models  glaucoma subjects reported greater fear of falling as compared with controls (β = -1.20 logits; 95% confidence interval [ci]  -1.87 to -0.53; p = 0.001)  and fear of falling increased with greater vf loss severity (β = -0.52 logits per 5-db decrement in the better eye vf md; 95% ci  -0.72 to -0.33; p<0.001). other variables predicting greater fear of falling included female gender (β = -0.55 logits; 95% ci  -1.03 to -0.06; p = 0.03)  higher bmi (β = -0.07 logits per 1-unit increase in bmi; 95% ci  -0.13 to -0.01; p = 0.02)  living with another adult (β = -1.16 logits; 95% ci  -0.34 to -1.99 logits; p = 0.006)  and greater comorbid illness (β = -0.53 logits/1 additional illness; 95% ci  -0.74 to -0.32; p<0.001). conclusions bilateral vf loss resulting from glaucoma is associated with greater fear of falling  with an impact that exceeds numerous other risk factors. given the physical and psychological repercussions associated with fear of falling  significant quality-of-life improvements may be achievable in patients with vf loss by screening for  and developing interventions to minimize  fear of falling.
3921,demographic risk factors for alcohol-related aggression in and around licensed venues.,aims few studies have examined the role of gender and both area-level and individual socio-economic status (ses) as independent predictors of alcohol-related aggression (ara) in and around licensed venues. methods the aim of the present study was to investigate the relationship between gender  area-level ses and individual ses (operationalised as occupational category) and ara in and around licensed venues. the sample comprised 697 men and 649 women aged 16-47  who completed a patron intercept survey as part of a larger study assessing trends in harm and stakeholders' views surrounding local community level interventions in dealing with alcohol-related problems in the night-time economy. results binary logistic regression analyses showed that age  gender  occupational category  area-level ses and level of intoxication at time of interview were all significant predictors of involvement in ara. being male doubled the odds of involvement in ara  while age was a protective factor. blue collar workers had more than double the odds of ara involvement of professionals  while those living in the most socio-economically disadvantaged areas were over twice as likely to report experiencing ara compared to those living in the most advantaged areas. however  assessment of the predictive model by gender revealed that effects of age  occupational category and area-level ses were restricted to male participants  with greater intoxication no longer predictive. conclusions ara among patrons was significantly more likely to occur among men  those in blue collar occupations  and individuals living in low ses areas  suggesting both individual and area-level disadvantage may play a role in ara.
3923,intestinal bacteria and the regulation of immune cell homeostasis.,the human intestine is colonized by an estimated 100 trillion bacteria. some of these bacteria are essential for normal physiology  whereas others have been implicated in the pathogenesis of multiple inflammatory diseases including ibd and asthma. this review examines the influence of signals from intestinal bacteria on the homeostasis of the mammalian immune system in the context of health and disease. we review the bacterial composition of the mammalian intestine  known bacterial-derived immunoregulatory molecules  and the mammalian innate immune receptors that recognize them. we discuss the influence of bacterial-derived signals on immune cell function and the mechanisms by which these signals modulate the development and progression of inflammatory disease. we conclude with an examination of successes and future challenges in using bacterial communities or their products in the prevention or treatment of human disease.
3925,psychological adaptation in children with idiopathic short stature treated with growth hormone or placebo.,the influence of short stature on psychological adaptation in childhood and adolescence is controversial. gh is currently used to treat children with idiopathic short stature (iss  also known as non-gh-deficient short stature). this study represents the first double-blind  placebo-controlled trial of the effects of gh on the psychological adaptation of children and adolescents with iss  treated with gh until adult height was attained. sixty-eight children (53 males  15 females)  9-16 yr old  with marked iss (measured height or predicted adult height -2.5 sd or less) received either gh 0.074 mg/kg or placebo sc three times per week until height velocity decreased to less than 1.5 cm/yr. parents completed the child behavior checklist (cbcl) and children the self-perception profile (spp) and silhouette apperception technique at baseline and annually thereafter. baseline behavioral/emotional adjustment (cbcl) and self-concept (spp) scores for children with iss were within the normative range. the two study groups exhibited similar behavioral and self-concept profiles (cbcl) during the first 2 yr of the study. however  cbcl behavior problems (internalizing  externalizing  and total problems) appeared to decline  in yr 3 and 4  in the gh-treated group relative to the placebo-treated group. group differences in cbcl competency domains and the spp were not observed at any point during the study. short stature among children with iss enrolled in this long-term  placebo-controlled study was not associated with problems in psychological adaptation or self-concept with the psychological instruments employed. gh treatment was associated with a trend toward improvement in problem behaviors  as measured by questionnaires (cbcl) completed by study participants' parents. it remains to be determined whether gh treatment significantly impacts adaptation  psychosocial function  or quality of life in children with iss.
3927,interleukin-2- and interferon-gamma-secreting t cells in normal and diseased human intestinal mucosa.,a sensitive reverse haemolytic plaque assay to detect lymphokine-secreting t cells  and northern blot analysis to detect expression of lymphokine messenger rna (mrna) were used to study interferon-gamma (ifn-gamma) and interleukin-2 (il-2) production in the mucosa of children with crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis (uc)  and in histologically normal mucosa from patients without inflammatory bowel disease. in the mucosa of most patients with uc and control patients  il-2- and ifn-gamma-secreting cells were absent or were present at only low levels. in contrast  in mucosa from patients with crohn's disease  lymphokine-secreting cells were readily detectable (3-18%). ifn-gamma mrna was detected by northern blot analysis in 5/6 crohn's tissues  but only in 1/5 uc samples and none of nine samples of control mucosa. these studies reveal an ongoing cell-mediated immune response in the mucosa in crohn's disease.
3929,drosophila rnai screen reveals cd36 family member required for mycobacterial infection.,certain pathogens  such as mycobacterium tuberculosis  survive within the hostile intracellular environment of a macrophage. to identify host factors required for mycobacterial entry and survival within macrophages  we performed a genomewide rna interference screen in drosophila macrophage-like cells  using mycobacterium fortuitum. we identified factors required for general phagocytosis  as well as those needed specifically for mycobacterial infection. one specific factor  peste (pes)  is a cd36 family member required for uptake of mycobacteria  but not escherichia coli or staphylococcus aureus. moreover  mammalian class b scavenger receptors (srs) conferred uptake of bacteria into nonphagocytic cells  with sr-bi and sr-bii uniquely mediating uptake of m. fortuitum  which suggests a conserved role for class b srs in pattern recognition and innate immunity.
3931,lncrna hanr promotes tumorigenesis and increase of chemoresistance in hepatocellular carcinoma,background/aims: hepatocellular carcinoma (hcc) is the fifth most common cancer in the world and the third leading cause of cancer-related death. critical roles for long non-coding rnas (lncrnas) have recently been demonstrated for a variety of cancers  including hepatocellular carcinoma. however  the effect and mechanism of lncrnas in hcc tumorigenesis and chemoresistance have not been extensively characterized. methods: in the current study  we have identified a hcc-expressed lncrna termed as hanr (hcc associated long non-coding rna). we identified hanr by microarray analysis and validated its up-regulated expression by quantitative pcr. rna pull-down and pathway analyses were conducted to evaluate physical and functional interactions with hanr. in vivo experiments were performed to assess tumorigenesis and increase of chemoresistance. in addition  the hanr expression in hcc specimens was detected by fish. xenograft and orthotopic mice model was constructed to observe the effect of hanr on tumorigenesis and chemoresistance in vivo. results: hanr was demonstrated to be up-regulated in hcc patients and hcc cell lines. increased hanr expression in hcc predicted short survival of patients. knock-down of hanr markedly retarded cell proliferation  suppressed hcc xenograft/orthotopic tumor growth  induced apoptosis and enhanced chemosensitivity to doxorubicin  while over-expression of hanr showed the opposite effects. it was found that hanr bind to gskip for regulating the phosphorylation of gsk3β in hcc. conclusion: our results demonstrate that hanr contributes to the development of hcc and is a promising therapeutic target for chemosensitization of hcc cells to doxorubicin  which may represent a promising therapeutic target in the future.
3933,viral interleukin-10 expressed by human cytomegalovirus during the latent phase of infection modulates latently infected myeloid cell differentiation.,the human cytomegalovirus ul111a gene is expressed during latent and productive infections  and it codes for homologs of interleukin-10 (il-10). we examined whether viral il-10 expressed during latency altered differentiation of latently infected myeloid progenitors. in comparison to infection with parental virus or mock infection  latent infection with a virus in which the gene encoding viral il-10 has been deleted upregulated cytokines associated with dendritic cell (dc) formation and increased the proportion of myeloid dcs. these data demonstrate that viral il-10 restricts the ability of latently infected myeloid progenitors to differentiate into dcs and identifies an immunomodulatory role for viral il-10 which may limit the host's ability to clear latent virus.
3935,survivin depletion preferentially reduces the survival of activated k-ras-transformed cells.,to identify cancer-specific targets  we have conducted a synthetic lethal screen using a small interfering rna (sirna) library targeting approximately 4 000 individual genes for enhanced killing in the dld-1 colon carcinoma cell line that expresses an activated copy of the k-ras oncogene. we found that sirnas targeting baculoviral inhibitor of apoptosis repeat-containing 5 (survivin) significantly reduced the survival of activated k-ras-transformed cells compared with its normal isogenic counterpart in which the mutant k-ras gene had been disrupted (dks-8). in addition  survivin sirna induced a transient g(2)-m arrest and marked polyploidy that was associated with increased caspase-3 activation in the activated k-ras cells. these results indicate that tumors expressing the activated k-ras oncogene may be particularly sensitive to inhibitors of the survivin protein.
3937,a switch from white to brown fat increases energy expenditure in cancer-associated cachexia.,cancer-associated cachexia (cac) is a wasting syndrome characterized by systemic inflammation  body weight loss  atrophy of white adipose tissue (wat) and skeletal muscle. limited therapeutic options are available and the underlying mechanisms are poorly defined. here we show that a phenotypic switch from wat to brown fat  a phenomenon termed wat browning  takes place in the initial stages of cac  before skeletal muscle atrophy. wat browning is associated with increased expression of uncoupling protein 1 (ucp1)  which uncouples mitochondrial respiration toward thermogenesis instead of atp synthesis  leading to increased lipid mobilization and energy expenditure in cachectic mice. chronic inflammation and the cytokine interleukin-6 increase ucp1 expression in wat  and treatments that reduce inflammation or β-adrenergic blockade reduce wat browning and ameliorate the severity of cachexia. importantly  ucp1 staining is observed in wat from cac patients. thus  inhibition of wat browning represents a promising approach to ameliorate cachexia in cancer patients.
3939,the role of autophagy in cancer development and response to therapy,autophagy is a process in which subcellular membranes undergo dynamic morphological changes that lead to the degradation of cellular proteins and cytoplasmic organelles. this process is an important cellular response to stress or starvation. many studies have shed light on the importance of autophagy in cancer  but it is still unclear whether autophagy suppresses tumorigenesis or provides cancer cells with a rescue mechanism under unfavourable conditions. what is the present state of our knowledge about the role of autophagy in cancer development  and in response to therapy? and how can the autophagic process be manipulated to improve anticancer therapeutics?
3941,an organ culture model for the study of metanephric development.,a murine whole organ metanephric culture system was designed to study the developmental aspects of mammalian nephrogenesis. metanephros and ureteric bud were removed from cfi albino mouse embryos at 13.5 +/- 0.4 days gestation  and grown in dulbecco's modified eagle's minimal essential medium supplemented with 20 per cent donor bovine serum at 37c in a mixed air--5 per cent co2 environment. under the experimental conditions employed  the metanephric explants showed organotypic tubular and glomerular epithelial development. a well-developed proximal tubule with microvilli  and characteristic intracellular organelles and intercellular junctions developed by 72 hours of culture. by 120 hours of culture  unique devascularized glomeruli consisting of parietal and visceral epithelial layers formed. the glomerular visceral epithelial cells formed foot processes and slit pore diaphragms  and produced islands of basement membrane. no endothelial or mesangial elements were present at any stage in organ culture development  indicating that advanced nephrogenesis can occur following initial epithelial-mesenchymal induction despite the absence of vascularization. the whole organ culture model system isolates renal structural development from the influences of perfusion and urine formation. the system thus affords the opportunity to study normal  as well as abnormal mammalian renal development under highly controlled experimental conditions.
3943,strong bias in the bacterial crispr elements that confer immunity to phage.,clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (crispr)-cas systems provide adaptive immunity against phage via spacer-encoded crispr rnas that are complementary to invasive nucleic acids. here  we challenge streptococcus thermophilus with a bacteriophage  and used pcr-based metagenomics to monitor phage-derived spacers daily for 15 days in two experiments. spacers that target the host chromosome are infrequent and strongly selected against  suggesting autoimmunity is lethal. in experiments that recover over half a million spacers  we observe early dominance by a few spacer sub-populations and rapid oscillations in sub-population abundances. in two crispr systems and in replicate experiments  a few spacers account for the majority of spacer sequences. nearly all phage locations targeted by the acquired spacers have a proto-spacer adjacent motif (pam)  indicating pams are involved in spacer acquisition. we detect a strong and reproducible bias in the phage genome locations from which spacers derive. this may reflect selection for specific spacers based on location and effectiveness.
3945,cannabinoids in clinical practice,cannabis has a potential for clinical use often obscured by unreliable and purely anecdotal reports. the most important natural cannabinoid is the psychoactive tetrahydrocannabinol (δ9-thc); others include cannabidiol (cbd) and cannabigerol (cbg). not all the observed effects can be ascribed to thc  and the other constituents may also modulate its action; for example cbd reduces anxiety induced by thc. a standardised extract of the herb may be therefore be more beneficial in practice and clinical trial protocols have been drawn up to assess this. the mechanism of action is still not fully understood  although cannabinoid receptors have been cloned and natural ligands identified. cannabis is frequently used by patients with multiple sclerosis (ms) for muscle spasm and pain  and in an experimental model of ms low doses of cannabinoids alleviated tremor. most of the controlled studies have been carried out with thc rather than cannabis herb and so do not mimic the usual clincal situation. small clinical studies have confirmed the usefulness of thc as an analgesic; cbd and cbg also have analgesic and antiinflammatory effects  indicating that there is scope for developing drugs which do not have the psychoactive properties ofthc. patients taking the synthetic derivative nabilone for neurogenic pain actually preferred cannabis herb and reported that it relieved not only pain but the associated depression and anxiety. cannabinoids are effective in chemotherapy-induced emesis and nabilone has been licensed for this use for several years. currently  the synthetic cannabinoid hu211 is undergoing trials as a protective agent after brain trauma. anecdotal reports of cannabis use include case studies in migraine and tourette’s syndrome  and as a treatment for asthma and glaucoma. apart from the smoking aspect  the safety profile of cannabis is fairly good. however  adverse reactions include panic or anxiety attacks  which are worse in the elderly and in women  and less likely in children. although psychosis has been cited as a consequence of cannabis use  an examination of psychiatric hospital admissions found no evidence of this  however  it may exacerbate existing symptoms. the relatively slow elimination from the body of the cannabinoids has safety implications for cognitive tasks  especially driving and operating machinery; although driving impairment with cannabis is only moderate  there is a significant interaction with alcohol. natural materials are highly variable and multiple components need to be standardised to ensure reproducible effects. pure natural and synthetic compounds do not have these disadvantages but may not have the overall therapeutic effect of the herb.
3947,preoperative c-reactive protein predicts long-term mortality and hospital length of stay after primary  nonemergent coronary artery bypass grafting.,background preoperative c-reactive protein (crp) levels more than 10 mg/l have been shown to be associated with increased morbidity and mortality after cardiac surgery. we examine the value of preoperative crp levels less than 10 mg/l for predicting long-term  all-cause mortality and hospital length of stay in surgical patients undergoing primary  nonemergent coronary artery bypass graft-only surgery. methods we examined the association between preoperative crp levels stratified into four categories (< 1  1-3  3-10  and > 10 mg/l)  and 7-yr all-cause mortality and hospital length of stay in 914 prospectively enrolled primary  nonemergent coronary artery bypass graft-only surgical patients using a proportional hazards regression model. results eighty-seven patients (9.5%) died during a mean follow-up period of 4.8 +/- 1.5 yr. after proportional hazards adjustment  the 3-10 and > 10 mg/l preoperative crp groups were associated with long-term  all-cause mortality (hazards ratios [95% ci]: 2.50 [1.22-5.16]  p = 0.01 and 2.66 [1.21-5.80]  p = 0.02  respectively) and extended hospital length of stay (1.32 [1.07-1.63]  p < 0.001 and 1.27 [1.02-1.62]  p = 0.001  respectively). conclusion we demonstrate that preoperative crp levels as low as 3 mg/l are associated with increased long-term mortality and extended hospital length of stay in relatively lower-acuity patients undergoing primary  nonemergent coronary artery bypass graft-only surgery. these important findings may allow for more objective risk stratification of patients who present for uncomplicated surgical coronary revascularization.
3949,sporadic creutzfeldt-jakob disease in the united kingdom: analysis of epidemiological surveillance data for 1970-96.,objective to identify changes in the occurrence of creutzfeldt-jakob disease that might be related to the epidemic of bovine spongiform encephalopathy. design epidemiological surveillance of the united kingdom population for creutzfeldt-jakob disease based on (a) referral of suspected cases by neurologists  neuropathologists  and neurophysiologists and (b) death certificates. setting england and wales during 1970-84  and whole of the united kingdom during 1985-96. subjects all 662 patients identified as sporadic cases of creutzfeldt-jakob disease. main outcome measures age distribution of patients  age specific time trends of disease  occupational exposure to cattle  potential exposure to causative agent of bovine spongiform encephalopathy. results during 1970-96 there was an increase in the number of sporadic cases of creutzfeldt-jakob disease recorded yearly in england and wales. the greatest increase was among people aged over 70. there was a statistically significant excess of cases among dairy farm workers and their spouses and among people at increased risk of contact with live cattle infected with bovine spongiform encephalopathy. during 1994-6 there were six deaths from sporadic creutzfeldt-jakob disease in the united kingdom in patients aged under 30. conclusions the increase in the incidence of sporadic creutzfeldt-jakob disease and the high incidence in dairy farmers in the united kingdom may be unrelated to bovine spongiform encephalopathy. the most striking change in the pattern of creutzfeldt-jakob disease in the united kingdom after the epidemic of bovine spongiform encephalopathy is provided by the incidence in a group of exceptionally young patients with a consistent and unusual neuropathological profile. the outcome of mouse transmission studies and the future incidence of the disease in the united kingdom and elsewhere  will be important in judging whether the agent causing bovine spongiform encephalopathy has infected humans.
3951,transient receptor potential channels as drug targets: from the science of basic research to the art of medicine.,the large trp gene family encodes transient receptor potential (trp) proteins that form novel cation-selective ion channels. in mammals  28 trp channel genes have been identified. trp proteins exhibit diverse permeation and gating properties and are involved in a plethora of physiologic functions with a strong impact on cellular sensing and signaling pathways. indeed  mutations in human genes encoding trp channels  the so-called "trp channelopathies " are responsible for a number of hereditary diseases that affect the musculoskeletal  cardiovascular  genitourinary  and nervous systems. this review gives an overview of the functional properties of mammalian trp channels  describes their roles in acquired and hereditary diseases  and discusses their potential as drug targets for therapeutic intervention.
3953,ketamine reduces lps-induced hmgb1 via activation of the nrf2/ho-1 pathway and nf-κb suppression.,background ketamine  as an anesthetic agent  has an anti-inflammatory effect. in the present study  we investigated whether ketamine inhibits release of high mobility group box 1 (hmgb1)  a late-phase cytokine of sepsis  in lipopolysaccharide (lps)-stimulated macrophages through heme oxygenase-1 (ho-1) induction. methods macrophages were preincubated with various concentrations of ketamine and then treated with lps (1 μg/ml). the cell culture supernatants were collected to measure inflammatory mediators (hmgb1  nitric oxide  tumor necrosis factor-α  and interleukin 1β) by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. moreover  ho-1 protein expression  the phosphorylation and degradation of iκb-α  and the nuclear translocation of nuclear factor e2-related factor 2 and nuclear factor κb (nf-κb) p65 were tested by western blot analysis. in addition  to further identify the role of ho-1 in this process  tin protoporphyrin (snpp)  an ho-1 inhibitor  was used. results ketamine treatment dose-dependently attenuated the increased levels of proinflammatory mediators (hmgb1  nitric oxide  tumor necrosis factor α  and interleukin 1β) and increased the ho-1 protein expression in lps-activated macrophages. furthermore  ketamine suppressed the phosphorylation and degradation of iκb-α as well as the lps-stimulated nuclear translocation of nf-κb p65 in macrophages. in addition  the present study also demonstrated that ketamine induced ho-1 expression through the nuclear translocation of nuclear factor e2-related factor 2 in macrophages. the effects of ketamine on lps-induced proinflammatory cytokines production were partially reversed by the ho inhibitor tin protoporphyrin (snpp). conclusion ketamine inhibits the release of hmgb1 in lps-stimulated macrophages  and this effect is at least partly mediated by the activation of the nrf2/ho-1 pathway and nf-κb suppression.
3955,role of birthweight in the etiology of breast cancer.,breast cancer may originate in utero. we reviewed the available evidence on the association between birthweight and the risk of breast cancer. to date  26 research papers addressing this issue have been published. the majority of studies identified a positive link between birthweight and premenopausal  but not postmenopausal  breast cancer. the relative risk estimate for breast cancer comparing women with high birthweight to women with low birthweight combining all studies including both pre- and postmenopausal breast cancer was 1.23 (95% confidence interval 1.13-1.34). the mechanisms underlying this association likely include elevated levels of growth factors that may increase the number of susceptible stem cells in the mammary gland or initiate tumors through dna mutations. loss of imprinting (loi) of growth hormone genes relevant for intrauterine growth  such as insulin-like growth factor 2 (igf2)  leads to abnormally high levels of these hormones evidenced by high birthweight. loi of igf2 has also been found in mammary tumor tissue. the role of environmental factors that stimulate such epigenetic regulation of gene expression remains to be elucidated.
3957,magnesium sulphate for women at risk of preterm birth for neuroprotection of the fetus.,background epidemiological and basic science evidence suggests that magnesium sulphate before birth may be neuroprotective for the fetus. objectives to assess the effects of magnesium sulphate as a neuroprotective agent when given to women considered at risk of preterm birth. search strategy we searched the cochrane pregnancy and childbirth group's trials register (31 august 2008). selection criteria randomised controlled trials of antenatal magnesium sulphate therapy in women threatening or likely to give birth at less than 37 weeks' gestational age. for one subgroup analysis  studies were broadly categorised by the primary intent of the study into "neuroprotective intent"  or "other intent (maternal neuroprotective - pre-eclampsia)"  or "other intent (tocolytic)". data collection and analysis at least two authors assessed trial eligibility and quality  and extracted data. main results five trials (6145 babies) were eligible for this review. antenatal magnesium sulphate therapy given to women at risk of preterm birth substantially reduced the risk of cerebral palsy in their child (relative risk (rr) 0.68; 95% confidence interval (ci) 0.54 to 0.87; five trials; 6145 infants). there was also a significant reduction in the rate of substantial gross motor dysfunction (rr 0.61; 95% ci 0.44 to 0.85; four trials; 5980 infants). no statistically significant effect of antenatal magnesium sulphate therapy was detected on paediatric mortality (rr 1.04; 95% ci 0.92 to 1.17; five trials; 6145 infants)  or on other neurological impairments or disabilities in the first few years of life. overall there were no significant effects of antenatal magnesium therapy on combined rates of mortality with cerebral palsy  although there were significant reductions for the neuroprotective groups rr 0.85; 95% ci 0.74 to 0.98; four trials; 4446 infants  but not for the other intent subgroups. there were higher rates of minor maternal side effects in the magnesium groups  but no significant effects on major maternal complications. authors' conclusions the neuroprotective role for antenatal magnesium sulphate therapy given to women at risk of preterm birth for the preterm fetus is now established. the number of women needed to be treated to benefit one baby by avoiding cerebral palsy is 63 (95% confidence interval 43 to 87). given the beneficial effects of magnesium sulphate on substantial gross motor function in early childhood  outcomes later in childhood should be evaluated to determine the presence or absence of later potentially important neurological effects  particularly on motor or cognitive function.
3959,compass  a histone h3 (lysine 4) methyltransferase required for telomeric silencing of gene expression.,the trithorax (trx) family of proteins is required for maintaining a specific pattern of gene expression in some organisms. recently we reported the isolation and characterization of compass  a multiprotein complex that includes the trx-related protein set1 of the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae. here we report that compass catalyzes methylation of the fourth lysine of histone h3 in vitro. set1 and several other components of compass are also required for histone h3 methylation in vivo and for transcriptional silencing of a gene located near a chromosome telomere.
3961,a systematic review of randomized controlled trials of acupuncture in the treatment of depression.,background acupuncture has become a popular complementary and alternative treatment approach. this review examined the randomized controlled trials (rcts) examining the effects of acupuncture treatment of depression. methods rcts of the treatment of depression with acupuncture were located using medline  allied and complementary medicine and the cochrane central register of controlled trials. the methodology of rcts was assessed using the jadad criteria  and elements of research design  i.e.  randomization  blinding  assessment of attrition rates  were quantified for systematic comparisons among studies. results among the 9 rcts examined  five were deemed to be of low quality based upon jadad criteria. the odds ratios derived from comparing acupuncture with control conditions within the rcts suggests some evidence for the utility of acupuncture in depression. general trends suggest that acupuncture modalities were as effective as antidepressants employed for treatment of depression in the limited studies available for comparison. however  placebo acupuncture treatment was often no different from intended verum acupuncture. limitations the rcts extracted were limited by small sample sizes  imprecise enrollment criteria  problems with randomization  blinding  brief duration of study and lack of longitudinal follow-up. conclusions despite the findings that the odds ratios of existing literature suggest a role for acupuncture in the treatment of depression  the evidence thus far is inconclusive. however  efforts are being made to standardize complementary approaches to treat depression  and further systematized research into their use is warranted.
3963,percentile curves for hemoglobin and red cell volume in infancy and childhood.,percentile curves were calculated for hemoglobin and mean corpuscular volume in children between 0.5 and 16 years of age. the curves were derived from several populations of non-indigent white children who lived near sea level. subjects were excluded from the reference population if they had laboratory evidence of iron deficiency  thalassemia minor  and/or hemoglobinopathy. the final reference populations included 9 946 children for the derivation of the hemoglobin curves and 2 314 for the mcv curves. the percentile curves should be particularly applicable to the diagnosis and screening of iron deficiency and thalassemia minor.
3965,androgen regulation of micro-rnas in prostate cancer.,background androgens play a critical role in the growth of both androgen dependent and castration-resistant prostate cancer (crpc). only a few micro-rnas (mirnas) have been suggested to be androgen regulated. we aim to identify androgen regulated mirnas. methods we utilized lncap derived model  we have established  and which overexpresses the androgen receptor (ar)  the vcap cell line  and 13 intact-castrated prostate cancer (pc) xenograft pairs  as well as clinical specimens of untreated (pc) and crpc. the expression of mirnas was analyzed by microarrays and quantitative rt-pcr (q-rt-pcr). transfection of pre-mir-141 and anti-mir-141 was also used. results seventeen mirnas were > 1.5-fold up- or downregulated upon dihydrotestosterone (dht) treatment in the cell lines  and 42 after castration in the ar-positive xenografts. only four mirnas (mir-10a  mir-141  mir-150*  and mir-1225-5p) showed similar androgen regulation in both cell lines and xenografts. of those  mir-141 was found to be expressed more in pc and crpc compared to benign prostate hyperplasia. additionally  the overexpression of mir-141 enhanced growth of parental lncap cells while inhibition of mir-141 by anti-mir-141 suppressed the growth of the lncap subline overexpressing ar. conclusions only a few mirnas were found to be androgen-regulated in both cell lines and xenografts models. of those  the expression of mir-141 was upregulated in cancer. the ectopic overexpression of mir-141 increased growth of lncap cell suggesting it may contribute to the progression of pc.
3967,breast cancer mortality trends in the united states according to estrogen receptor status and age at diagnosis.,purpose since 1990  overall breast cancer mortality rates in the united states decreased 24%. this decline has been attributed to mammography screening and adjuvant systemic therapy. however  the efficacy of these modalities may depend on estrogen receptor (er) expression and age. we therefore examined breast cancer mortality trends in the united states according to er status and age. methods using the surveillance  epidemiology  and end results (seer) program (1990-2003)  we calculated trends in incidence-based mortality (ibm)  annual hazard rates for breast cancer deaths after diagnosis  and relative hazard rates for women with er-positive and er-negative tumors. relative hazard rates were assessed with cox proportional hazards models  adjusted for stage and grade  and stratified by age at diagnosis. results during the study period  ibm and annual hazard rates for breast cancer deaths decreased among women with er-positive and er-negative tumors  although declines were greater for those with er-positive tumors. among women younger than 70 years  relative hazard rates declined 38% for those with er-positive tumors versus 19% for those with er-negative tumors. among women 70 years or older  relative hazard rates declined 14% for those with er-positive tumors versus no significant decline for those with er-negative tumors. conclusion in the united states  breast cancer mortality rates have declined among women with er-positive and er-negative tumors  with greater declines among younger women and those with er-positive tumors. although mortality in all groups remains unacceptably high  additional emphasis should be placed on improving outcomes of breast cancer patients older than 70 years and those of all ages with er-negative tumors.
3969,immune reconstitution after cord blood transplantation: peculiarities  clinical implications and management strategies.,umbilical cord blood (ucb) is now widely used as an alternative hematopoietic stem cell source for patients lacking closely matched related or unrelated adult donors. ucb transplantation has traditionally been associated with delayed engraftment  poor immune reconstitution and consequent increased risk of infection. more recent clinical studies  however  suggest that conditioning regimens and in particular the omission of in vivo t-cell depletion may play a crucial role in post-transplant t-cell expansion  facilitating a uniquely rapid immune recovery after ucb transplantation. the peculiar characteristics of ucb cells  the importance of thymic function and the role of conditioning regimens and graft-versus-host disease influencing immune reconstitution are described. the last part of the review reports available data on ucb  as well as third-party peripheral blood derived anti-viral cell therapy  which provides a novel approach to rescue ucb recipients with viral complications in the post-transplant period.
3971,composition of gall bladder stones associated with octreotide: response to oral ursodeoxycholic acid.,octreotide  an effective treatment for acromegaly  induces gall bladder stones in 13-60% of patients. because knowledge of stone composition is essential for studies of their pathogenesis  treatment  and prevention  this was investigated by direct and indirect methods in 14 octreotide treated acromegalic patients with gall stones. chemical analysis of gall stones retrieved at cholecystectomy from two patients  showed that they contained 71% and 87% cholesterol by weight. in the remaining 12 patients  localised computed tomography of the gall bladder showed that eight had stones with maximum attenuation scores of < 100 hounsfield units (values of < 100 hu predict cholesterol rich  dissolvable stones). gall bladder bile was obtained by ultrasound guided  fine needle puncture from six patients. all six patients had supersaturated bile (mean (sem) cholesterol saturation index of 1.19 (0.08) (range 1.01-1.53)) and all had abnormally rapid cholesterol microcrystal nucleation times (< 4 days (range 1-4))  whilst in four  the bile contained cholesterol microcrystals immediately after sampling. of the 12 patients considered for oral ursodeoxycholic acid (udca) treatment  two had a blocked cystic duct and were not started on udca while one was lost to follow up. after one year of treatment  five of the remaining nine patients showed either partial (n = 3) or complete (n = 2) gall stone dissolution  suggesting that their stones were cholesterol rich. this corresponds  by actuarial (life table) analysis  to a combined gall stone dissolution rate of 58.3 (15.9%). in conclusion  octreotide induced gall stones are generally small  multiple  and cholesterol rich although  in common with spontaneous gall stone disease  at presentation some patients will have a blocked cystic duct and some gall stones containing calcium.
3973,changing the course of pancreatic cancer--focus on recent translational advances.,in the past decade  insightful preclinical research has led to important breakthroughs in our understanding of pancreatic cancer. even though the vast majority of pancreatic cancers are kras mutated  not all pancreatic cancer tumors are "kras equal"; there seems to be varying dependencies on the kras pathway. while kras-targeting therapies have been disappointing in the clinic  'synthetic lethal' approaches hold promise in this setting. the pancreatic cancer stromal microenvironment appears to have contradictory roles. while there is evidence to suggest that stromal barrier prevents drug delivery  in other circumstances  stroma can play a protective role and its disruption enhances tumor dissemination. clinical trials aimed at manipulating the various stromal components are in progress. brca mutation-related pancreatic tumors illustrate a unique subtype with enhanced susceptibility to dna damaging agents and parp-inhibition. dna repair defects in cancer extend beyond germ line brca mutation and may extend the indications for dna repair-targeting agents. immune strategies are an area of active investigation in pancreatic cancer. although the initial trials of single-agent checkpoint inhibitors have been negative  combinational approaches using immune-modifying agents and vaccines appear promising and goal is to identify an 'immune-therapy responsive' profile in pancreatic cancer.
3975,detection  characterization  and spontaneous differentiation in vitro of very small embryonic-like putative stem cells in adult mammalian ovary.,the present study was undertaken to detect  characterize  and study differentiation potential of stem cells in adult rabbit  sheep  monkey  and menopausal human ovarian surface epithelium (ose). two distinct populations of putative stem cells (pscs) of variable size were detected in scraped ose  one being smaller and other similar in size to the surrounding red blood cells in the scraped ose. the smaller 1-3 μm very small embryonic-like pscs were pluripotent in nature with nuclear oct-4 and cell surface ssea-4  whereas the bigger 4-7 μm cells with cytoplasmic localization of oct-4 and minimal expression of ssea-4 were possibly the tissue committed progenitor stem cells. pluripotent gene transcripts of oct-4  oct-4a  nanog  sox-2  tert  and stat-3 in human and sheep ose were detected by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. the pscs underwent spontaneous differentiation into oocyte-like structures  parthenote-like structures  embryoid body-like structures  cells with neuronal-like phenotype  and embryonic stem cell-like colonies  whereas the epithelial cells transformed into mesenchymal phenotype by epithelial-mesenchymal transition in 3 weeks of ose culture. germ cell markers like c-kit  dazl  gdf-9  vasa  and zp4 were immuno-localized in oocyte-like structures. in conclusion  as opposed to the existing view of ose being a bipotent source of oocytes and granulosa cells  mammalian ovaries harbor distinct very small embryonic-like pscs and tissue committed progenitor stem cells population that have the potential to develop into oocyte-like structures in vitro  whereas mesenchymal fibroblasts appear to form supporting granulosa-like somatic cells. research at the single-cell level  including complete gene expression profiling  is required to further confirm whether postnatal oogenesis is a conserved phenomenon in adult mammals.
3977,substrate requirements for ermc' methyltransferase activity.,ermc' is a methyltransferase that confers resistance to the macrolide-lincosamide-streptogramin b group of antibiotics by catalyzing the methylation of 23s rrna at a specific adenine residue (a-2085 in bacillus subtilis; a-2058 in escherichia coli). the gene for ermc' was cloned and expressed to a high level in e. coli  and the protein was purified to virtual homogeneity. studies of substrate requirements of ermc' have shown that a 262-nucleotide rna fragment within domain v of b. subtilis 23s rrna can be utilized efficiently as a substrate for methylation at a-2085. kinetic studies of the monomethylation reaction showed that the apparent km of this 262-nucleotide rna oligonucleotide was 26-fold greater than the value determined for full-size and domain v 23s rrna. in addition  the vmax for this fragment also rose sevenfold. a model of rna-ermc' interaction involving multiple binding sites is proposed from the kinetic data presented.
3979,the body-mass index of twins who have been reared apart.,to assess the relative importance of genetic and environmental effects on the body-mass index (weight in kilograms divided by the square of the height in meters)  we studied samples of identical and fraternal twins  reared apart or reared together. the samples consisted of 93 pairs of identical twins reared apart  154 pairs of identical twins reared together  218 pairs of fraternal twins reared apart  and 208 pairs of fraternal twins reared together. the intrapair correlation coefficients of the values for body-mass index of identical twins reared apart were 0.70 for men and 0.66 for women. these are the most direct estimates of the relative importance of genetic influences (heritability) on the body-mass index  and they were only slightly lower than those for twins reared together in this and earlier studies. similar estimates were derived from maximum-likelihood model-fitting analyses--0.74 for men and 0.69 for women. nonadditive genetic variance made a significant contribution to the estimates of heritability  particularly among men. of the potential environmental influences  only those unique to the individual and not those shared by family members were important  contributing about 30 percent of the variance. sharing the same childhood environment did not contribute to the similarity of the body-mass index of twins later in life. we conclude that genetic influences on body-mass index are substantial  whereas the childhood environment has little or no influence. these findings corroborate and extend the results of earlier studies of twins and adoptees.
3981,phorbol esters and cytokines regulate the expression of the nemo-related protein  a molecule involved in a nf-kappa b-independent pathway.,the nf-kappab signaling pathway plays a crucial role in the immune  inflammatory  and apoptotic responses. recently  we identified the nf-kappab essential modulator (nemo) as an essential component of this pathway. nemo is a structural and regulatory subunit of the high molecular kinase complex (ikk) responsible for the phosphorylation of nf-kappab inhibitors. data base searching led to the isolation of a cdna encoding a protein we called nrp (nemo-related protein)  which shows a strong homology to nemo. here we show that nrp is present in a novel high molecular weight complex  that contains none of the known members of the ikk complex. consistently  we could not observe any effect of nrp on nf-kappab signaling. nonetheless  we could demonstrate that treatment with phorbol esters induces nrp phosphorylation and decreases its half-life. this phosphorylation event could only be inhibited by k-252a and stauroporin. we also show that de novo expression of nrp can be induced by interferon and tumor necrosis factor alpha and that these two stimuli have a synergistic effect on nrp expression. in addition  we observed that endogenous nrp is associated with the golgi apparatus. analogous to nemo  we find that nrp is associated in a complex with two kinases  suggesting that nrp could play a similar role in another signaling pathway.
3983,prevention of type 2 diabetes mellitus through inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system,type 2 diabetes mellitus is becoming a major health problem associated with excess morbidity and mortality. as the prevalence of type 2 diabetes is rapidly increasing  prevention of the disease should be considered as a key objective in the near future. besides lifestyle changes  various pharmacological treatments have proven their efficacy in placebo-controlled clinical trials  including antidiabetic drugs such as metformin  acarbose and troglitazone  or antiobesity agents such as orlistat. arterial hypertension  a clinical entity in which insulin resistance is common  is strongly associated with type 2 diabetes and may precede the disease by several years. while antihypertensive agents such as diuretics or β-adrenoceptor antagonists may worsen insulin resistance and impair glucose tolerance  newer antihypertensive agents exert neutral or even slightly positive metabolic effects. numerous clinical trials have investigated the effects of ace inhibitors or angiotensin ii receptor antagonists (aras) on insulin sensitivity in hypertensive patients  with or without diabetes  with no consistent results. almost half of the studies with ace inhibitors in hypertensive nondiabetic individuals demonstrated a slight but significant increase in insulin sensitivity as assessed by insulin-stimulated glucose disposal during a euglycaemic hyperinsulinaemic clamp  while the other half failed to reveal any significant change. the effects of aras on insulin sensitivity are neutral in most studies. mechanisms of improvement of glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity through the inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system (ras) are complex. they may include improvement of blood flow and microcirculation in skeletal muscles and  thereby  enhancement of insulin and glucose delivery to the insulin-sensitive tissues  facilitating insulin signalling at the cellular level and improvement of insulin secretion by the β cells. six recent large-scale clinical studies reported a remarkably consistent reduction in the incidence of type 2 diabetes in hypertensive patients treated with either ace inhibitors or aras for 3–6 years  compared with a thiazide diuretic  β-adrenoceptor antagonist  the calcium channel antagonist amlodipine or even placebo. the relative risk reduction averaged 14% (p = 0.034) in the cappp (captopril prevention project) with captopril compared with a thiazide or β1-adrenoceptor antagonist  34% (p < 0.001) in the hope (heart outcomes prevention evaluation) study with ramipril compared with placebo  30% (p < 0.001) in the allhat (antihypertensive and lipid-lowering treatment to prevent heart attack trial) with lisinopril compared with chlortalidone  25% (p < 0.001) in the life (losartan intervention for endpoint reduction in hypertension study) with losartan compared with atenolol  and 25% (p = 0.09) in the scope (study on cognition and prognosis in the elderly) with candesartan cilexetil compared with placebo  and 23% (p < 0.0001) in the value (valsartan antihypertensive long-term use evaluation) trial with valsartan compared with amlodipine. all these studies considered the development of diabetes as a secondary endpoint  except the hope trial where it was a post hoc analysis. these encouraging observations led to the initiation of two large  prospective  placebo-controlled randomised clinical trials whose primary outcome is the prevention of type 2 diabetes: the dream (diabetes reduction approaches with ramipril and rosiglitazone medications) trial with the ace inhibitor ramipril and the navigator (nateglinide and valsartan in impaired glucose tolerance outcomes research) trial with the ara valsartan. finally  ontarget (ongoing telmisartan alone and in combination with ramipril global endpoint trial) will also investigate as a secondary endpoint whether it is possible to prevent the development of type 2 diabetes by blocking the ras with either an ace inhibitor or an ara or a combination of both. thus  the recent consistent observations of a 14–34% reduction of the development of diabetes in hypertensive patients receiving ace inhibitors or aras are exciting. from a theoretical point of view  they emphasise that there are many aspects of the pathogenesis  prevention and treatment of type 2 diabetes that still need to be uncovered. from a practical point of view  they may offer a new strategy to reduce the ongoing epidemic and burden of type 2 diabetes.
3985,misread protein creates membrane channels: an essential step in the bactericidal action of aminoglycosides.,among the pleiotropic effects of aminoglycosides  their irreversible uptake and their blockade of initiating ribosomes have appeared to explain their bactericidal action  while the contributions of translational misreading and membrane damage and the mechanism of that damage have remained uncertain. we now present evidence that incorporation of misread proteins into the membrane can account for the membrane damage. the bactericidal action thus appears to result from the following sequence  in which each step is essential: slight initial entry of the antibiotic; interaction with chain-elongating ribosomes  resulting in misreading; incorporation of misread protein into the membrane  creating abnormal channels; increased (and irreversible) entry through these channels  and hence increased misreading and formation of channels; and  finally  blockade of initiating ribosomes. this mechanism can account for several previously unexplained observations: that streptomycin uptake requires protein synthesis during  but not after  the lag before the membrane damage; that streptomycin-resistant cells  which fail to take up streptomycin  can do so after treatment by another aminoglycoside; and that puromycin at moderate concentrations accelerates streptomycin uptake  while high concentrations (which release shorter chains) prevent it. in addition  puromycin  prematurely releasing polypeptides of normal sequence  also evidently creates channels  since it is reported to promote streptomycin uptake even in streptomycin-resistant cells. these findings imply that normal membrane proteins must be selected not only for a hydrophobic anchoring surface  but also for a tight fit in the membrane.
3987,metabolic syndrome as a risk factor for diabetes.,the metabolic syndrome was initially described as an insulin-resistance syndrome characterized by the clustering of metabolic traits such as high triglycerides  low high-density lipoprotein cholesterol  high blood pressure  abdominal obesity and different degrees of impaired glucose regulation. although different definitions have been developed by various consensus groups  epidemiological studies demonstrate that they all associate the metabolic syndrome with a similar cardiometabolic risk  which is high for diabetes (ranging between three- and 20-fold)  depending on the number of components and the inclusion of impaired fasting glucose  impaired glucose tolerance or both. the latter appear to indicate the failure of the beta cell to produce enough insulin to compensate for the increased demand due to insulin resistance. there is a hyperbolic relationship between insulin production and insulin sensitivity  which can be calculated by the disposition index. when this is altered there is a higher risk of developing type 2 diabetes. there have been no clinical trials in subjects selected by the diagnosis of metabolic syndrome  but structured lifestyle changes have been tested in people with impaired fasting glucose/impaired glucose tolerance and have been able to reduce incident type 2 diabetes by almost 50%  as long as a weight loss of at least 5% is achieved. oral antidiabetic and anti-obesity drugs have also been successful to a lesser degree. some fibrates have reduced or delayed incident diabetes. extended-release niacin has a neutral effect and statins are controversial. ace inhibitors and arbs are the antihypertensive agents least associated with incident diabetes.
3989,blocking caspase-activated apoptosis improves contractility in failing myocardium.,cardiac myocyte apoptosis has been demonstrated in end-stage failing human hearts. the therapeutic utility of blocking apoptosis in congestive heart failure (chf) has not been elucidated. this study investigated the role of caspase activation in cardiac contractility and sarcomere organization in the development of chf. in a rabbit model of heart failure obtained by rapid ventricular pacing  we demonstrate  using in vivo transcoronary adenovirus-mediated gene delivery of the potent caspase inhibitor p35  that caspase activation is associated with a reduction in contractile force of failing myocytes by destroying sarcomeric structure. in this animal model gene transfer of p35 prevented the rise in caspase 3 activity and dna-histone formation. genetically manipulated hearts expressing p35 had a significant improvement in left ventricular pressure rise (+dp/dt)  decreased end-diastolic chamber pressure (lvedp)  and the development of heart failure was delayed. to better understand this benefit  we examined the effects of caspase 3 on cardiomyocyte dysfunction in vitro. microinjection of activated caspase 3 into the cytoplasm of intact myocytes induced sarcomeric disorganization and reduced contractility of the cells. these results demonstrate a direct impact of caspases on cardiac function and may lead to novel therapeutic strategies via antiapoptotic regimens.
3991,the importance of engaging policy-makers at the outset to guide research on and introduction of vaccines: the use of policy-maker surveys.,face-to-face surveys of policy-makers and other influential leaders are a useful tool to identify  at an early stage  (a) major issues regarding the introduction of a new vaccine  (b) persons and groups in a country who play a major decision-making or influential role in the introduction of vaccines  (c) potential obstacles to the introduction of vaccines  and (d) data-needs of policy-makers to overcome these obstacles. by surveying the opinions and beliefs of those who will make or influence decisions on whether to introduce a new vaccine  these studies can help ensure that research activities respond to the needs of policy-makers in countries endemic for the target diseases. these surveys can also inform vaccine-introduction strategies by identifying financially and politically feasible means of distributing  targeting  and financing the vaccines. this paper describes the methodology used in conducting such surveys and discusses methodological issues. it also presents lessons learnt from two policy-maker surveys carried out in several asian countries in regard to new-generation vaccines against cholera  typhoid fever  and shigellosis; and future vaccines against dengue fever/dengue haemorrhagic fever.
3993,t1 mapping for myocardial extracellular volume measurement by cmr: bolus only versus primed infusion technique.,objectives the aim of this study was to determine the accuracy of the contrast "bolus only" t1 mapping cardiac magnetic resonance (cmr) technique for measuring myocardial extracellular volume fraction (ecv). background myocardial ecv can be measured with t1 mapping before and after contrast agent if the contrast agent distribution between blood/myocardium is at equilibrium. equilibrium distribution can be achieved with a primed contrast infusion (equilibrium contrast-cmr [eq-cmr]) or might be approximated by the dynamic equilibration achieved by delayed post-bolus measurement. this bolus only approach is highly attractive  but currently limited data support its use. we compared the bolus only technique with 2 independent standards: collagen volume fraction (cvf) from myocardial biopsy in aortic stenosis (as); and the infusion technique in 5 representative conditions. methods one hundred forty-seven subjects were studied: healthy volunteers (n = 50); hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (n = 25); severe as (n = 22); amyloid (n = 20); and chronic myocardial infarction (n = 30). bolus only (at 15 min) and infusion ecv measurements were performed and compared. in 18 subjects with severe as the results were compared with histological cvf. results the ecv by both techniques correlated with histological cvf (n = 18  r² = 0.69  p < 0.01 vs. r² = 0.71  p < 0.01  p = 0.42 for comparison). across health and disease  there was strong correlation between the techniques (r² = 0.97). however  in diseases of high ecv (amyloid  hypertrophic cardiomyopathy late gadolinium enhancement  and infarction)  bland-altman analysis indicates the bolus only technique has a consistent and increasing offset  giving a higher value for ecvs above 0.4 (mean difference ± limit of agreement for ecv <0.4 = -0.004 ± 0.037 vs. ecv >0.4 = 0.040 ± 0.075  p < 0.001). conclusions bolus only  t1 mapping-derived ecv measurement is sufficient for ecv measurement across a range of cardiac diseases  and this approach is histologically validated in as. however  when ecv is >0.4  the bolus only technique consistently measures ecv higher compared with infusion.
3995,cd169-positive macrophages dominate antitumor immunity by crosspresenting dead cell-associated antigens.,the generation of tumor-directed cytotoxic t lymphocytes is considered crucial for the induction of antitumor immunity. to activate these cd8(+) t cells  antigen-presenting cells (apcs) must initially acquire tumor cell-associated antigens. the major source of tumor antigens is dead tumor cells  but little is known about how apcs in draining lymph nodes acquire and crosspresent these antigens. here we show that cd169(+) macrophages phagocytose dead tumor cells transported via lymphatic flow and subsequently crosspresent tumor antigens to cd8(+) t cells. subcutaneous immunization with irradiated tumor cells protects mice from syngenic tumor. however  tumor antigen-specific cd8(+) t cell activation and subsequent antitumor immunity are severely impaired in mice depleted with cd169(+) macrophages. neither migratory dendritic cells (dcs) nor lymph node-resident conventional dcs are essential for the crosspresentation of tumor antigens. thus  we have identified cd169(+) macrophages as lymph node-resident apcs dominating early activation of tumor antigen-specific cd8(+) t cells.
3997,lessons learnt from malaria epidemics in the islamic republic of iran.,the islamic republic of iran is in the pre-elimination phase of malaria control  but malaria epidemics are still a concern in the south of the country. this retrospective study presents the epidemiological characteristics and predisposing factors of 60 of the malaria epidemics reported in sistan va baluchestan province during 2005-09. a zero-truncated negative binomial model was used to investigate the relation between predictor variables and the total number of malaria cases. malaria epidemics occurred mainly in the southern part of the province  mostly between july and october  peaking in august. most malaria epidemics were small-scale (68.3% were < 100 cases) and short (51.7% lasted < 1 month). plasmodium falciparum was present in 46.7% of the epidemics. an increase in the rainfall rate as well as population movements were the most significant predisposing factors. the results may help inform an epidemic investigation and reporting system as the country approaches the malaria elimination phase.
3999,epigenetic memory and preferential lineage-specific differentiation in induced pluripotent stem cells derived from human pancreatic islet beta cells.,human induced pluripotent stem cells (hipscs) appear to be highly similar to human embryonic stem cells (hescs). using two genetic lineage-tracing systems  we demonstrate the generation of ipsc lines from human pancreatic islet beta cells. these reprogrammed cells acquired markers of pluripotent cells and differentiated into the three embryonic germ layers. however  the beta cell-derived ipscs (bipscs) maintained open chromatin structure at key beta-cell genes  together with a unique dna methylation signature that distinguishes them from other pscs. bipscs also demonstrated an increased ability to differentiate into insulin-producing cells both in vitro and in vivo  compared with escs and isogenic non-beta ipscs. our results suggest that the epigenetic memory may predispose bipscs to differentiate more readily into insulin producing cells. these findings demonstrate that hipsc phenotype may be influenced by their cells of origin  and suggest that their skewed differentiation potential may be advantageous for cell replacement therapy.
4001,prostaglandin e2 as an inhibitory modulator of fibrogenesis in human lung allografts.,rationale donor mesenchymal stromal/stem cell (msc) expansion and fibrotic differentiation is associated with development of bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome (bos) in human lung allografts. however  the regulators of fibrotic differentiation of these resident mesenchymal cells are not well understood. objectives this study examines the role of endogenous and exogenous prostaglandin (pg)e2 as a modulator of fibrotic differentiation of human lung allograft-derived mscs. methods effect of pge2 on proliferation  collagen secretion  and α-smooth muscle actin (α-sma) expression was assessed in lung-resident mscs (lr-mscs) derived from patients with and without bos. the response pathway involved was elucidated by use of specific agonists and antagonists. measurement and main results pge2 treatment of lr-mscs derived from normal lung allografts significantly inhibited their proliferation  collagen secretion  and α-sma expression. on the basis of pharmacologic and small-interfering rna approaches  a pge2/e prostanoid (ep)2/adenylate cyclase pathway was implicated in these suppressive effects. stimulation of endogenous pge2 secretion by il-1β was associated with amelioration of their myofibroblast differentiation in vitro  whereas its inhibition by indomethacin augmented α-sma expression. lr-mscs from patients with bos secreted significantly less pge2 than non-bos lr-mscs. furthermore  bos lr-mscs were found to be defective in their ability to induce cyclooxygenase-2  and therefore unable to up-regulate pge2 synthesis in response to il-1β. bos lr-mscs also demonstrated resistance to the inhibitory actions of pge2 in association with a reduction in the ep2/ep1 ratio. conclusions these data identify the pge2 axis as an important autocrine-paracrine brake on fibrotic differentiation of lr-mscs  a failure of which is associated with bos.
4003,stromal-epithelial metabolic coupling in cancer: integrating autophagy and metabolism in the tumor microenvironment.,cancer cells do not exist as pure homogeneous populations in vivo. instead they are embedded in "cancer cell nests" that are surrounded by stromal cells  especially cancer associated fibroblasts. thus  it is not unreasonable to suspect that stromal fibroblasts could influence the metabolism of adjacent cancer cells  and visa versa. in accordance with this idea  we have recently proposed that the warburg effect in cancer cells may be due to culturing cancer cells by themselves  out of their normal stromal context or tumor microenvironment. in fact  when cancer cells are co-cultured with fibroblasts  then cancer cells increase their mitochondrial mass  while fibroblasts lose their mitochondria. an in depth analysis of this phenomenon reveals that aggressive cancer cells are "parasites" that use oxidative stress as a "weapon" to extract nutrients from surrounding stromal cells. oxidative stress in fibroblasts induces the autophagic destruction of mitochondria  by mitophagy. then  stromal cells are forced to undergo aerobic glycolysis  and produce energy-rich nutrients (such as lactate and ketones) to "feed" cancer cells. this mechanism would allow cancer cells to seed anywhere  without blood vessels as a food source  as they could simply induce oxidative stress wherever they go  explaining how cancer cells survive during metastasis. we suggest that stromal catabolism  via autophagy and mitophagy  fuels the anabolic growth of tumor cells  promoting tumor progression and metastasis. we have previously termed this new paradigm "the autophagic tumor stroma model of cancer metabolism"  or the "reverse warburg effect". we also discuss how glutamine addiction (glutaminolysis) in cancer cells fits well with this new model  by promoting oxidative mitochondrial metabolism in aggressive cancer cells.
4005,effect of age  sex  and sites on the cellularity of the adipose tissue in mice and rats rendered obese by a high-fat diet.,cell size and number of parametrial fat pads were determined in swiss mice made obese by means of a high-fat diet (40% lard w/w) given ad lib. this diet and a control were introduced to two groups of mothers during gestation and lactation  and sucklings were given the same diets as their mothers at weaning and throughout life.2-wk old mice suckled by mothers fed a high-fat diet have fatter parametrial pads. this difference is due solely to an increase in fat cell size. after weaning  until the 18th wk  the two groups differed with a striking fat cell enlargement seen in the obese group. later on  whereas cell numbers did not change in the control group  a constant and uninterrupted increase in number is shown in those of obese mice until the 52nd wk. hyperplasia was observed only in adults. when the high-fat diet was introduced to adult rats it also triggered an increase in fat cell number. three sites of fat pads were compared in both sexes at 32 wk of age. all sites increased in weight in the high-fat fed group. this was due to: hyperplasia in perirenal site  hypertrophy in epididymal and subcutaneous sites  and hyperplasia plus hypertrophy in the parametrial one. so  in each sex  adipose sites in the obese mice reacted to the diet in a site-specific way. it was concluded that the level of fat in a diet is involved in both formation and maturation of new fat cells and in the regulation of fat cell lipid content. the two processes may be separated or may act together according to the adipose tissue site.
4007,rfid system evaluation against radiated transient noise,in this paper a radiofrequency identification system according to standard iso/iec 14443 type-b is evaluated in  presence of transient noise. this real time communication system working at 13.56 mhz is interfered in a controlled environment by different transient bursts varying their level  frequency and duration. the transient burst interference is applied in an ac main wire close to the system and the effect over the digital communication system is evaluated using two different methods. the first one is observing directly an rfid equipment in presence of transient signals  and the second one is capturing the  interference in time domain an evaluating its effect by means of simulation. the rfid system is affected by these transient noises  causing different types of errors. it is shown that it is essential to measure and evaluate in time domain the transient phenomena to ensure that the rfid system do not have susceptibility problems.
4009,[palliative care in germany].,the delivery of palliative care in germany is still characterized by a wide-spread undersupply both for inpatients and outpatients. nevertheless over the last 15 years progress has also been made in germany  which is pleasing and which has directed professional and public attention increasingly to the situation of the incurably ill and dying. in the course of this development the first structures for specialized palliative care have been established. in particular the situation for inpatients in hospitals and hospices is pleasing  even if a satisfaction for total coverage is not yet reached. more seriously however is the demand for the outpatients. financial means  which are steered so far only rudimentarily for palliative care  must be made sufficiently available  in order to be able to meet the demand with the help of appropriate structural offers. it is important to realize the needs of the incurably ill and dying and of their relatives and friends. our society has to call attention to this subject and it should be placed on the healthpolitical agenda as a topic of the highest priority level. the current developments in the federation and in the federal states are encouraging and allowing hope that the delivery of palliative care for all who need it (and not only the ill) will improve further in the coming years.
4011,open access increases citation rate,plos biology publishes today a research article by gunther eysenbach that is not about biology. it is about citations. it provides robust evidence that open-access articles (oa articles) are more immediately recognized and cited than non-oa articles. as such  it adds objective support to the belief we have always held that open-access publication speeds up scientific dialog between researchers and  consequently  should be extended to the whole scientific literature as quickly as possible. it is therefore fitting that we publish such a paper. we have long argued that papers freely available in a journal will be more often read and cited than those behind a subscription barrier. however  solid evidence to support or refute such a claim has been surprisingly hard to find. since most open-access journals are new  comparisons of the effects of open access with established subscription-based journals are easily confounded by age and reputation. in the current study  eysenbach compared citations compiled by thomson scientific (formerly thomson isi) to individual articles published between june 2004 and december 2004 in the same journal—namely  proceedings of the national academy of sciences (pnas)  which announced its open-access option for authors on june 8 of that year  with an associated publication charge of us$1 000. non-oa articles in pnas are subject to a six-month “toll-access” delay before the article becomes publicly available. the results of this natural experiment are clear: in the 4 to 16 months following publication  oa articles gained a significant citation advantage over non-oa articles during the same period. they are twice as likely to be cited 4 to 10 months after publication and almost three times as likely between 10 and 16 months. given that pnas delays open access for only six months  the disparity between oa and non-oa articles in journals where the delay is longer or where articles remain “toll-access” is likely to be even greater. eysenbach also looked at the impact of self-archiving non-oa articles. one route to open access  it is argued  is for authors to archive their published articles on their own web sites or in institutional repositories  although this does not include an explicit business model to cover the cost of peer-review and publishing. the analysis revealed that self-archived articles are also cited less often than oa articles from the same journal. yes  you're right; we do have a strong and vested interest in publishing results that so obviously endorse our existence. moreover  the author of the article is also an editor of an open-access journal. but sometimes a potential conflict of interest can actually help to ensure rigor. in this case  we have an acute interest in ensuring that the article meets the same  if not higher  standards as any other research article we publish. not only must the conclusions provide a significant advance for the field  but the study must be technically sound  with appropriate evidence to support those conclusions. as with all our research articles  we consulted throughout the evaluation process with an academic editor with appropriate expertise—in this case  carol tenopir  professor of information sciences at the university of tennessee (knoxville  tennessee  united states). the article was reviewed by two experts in bibliometric analyses and information science  and an experienced research biologist with expertise in statistics. they all enthusiastically supported publication  although one understandably questioned the suitability of plos biology as the publication venue. we have no intention of making plos biology a regular home for bibliometric studies (even when about open access). what makes this study worth publishing in plos biology is not only the relative strength of evidence supporting the claim but also the extent to which many (especially other publishers) have anticipated such an analysis. as far as we are aware  no other study has compared oa and non-oa articles from the same journal and controlled for so many potentially confounding factors. eysenbach's multivariate analysis took into account the number of days since publication  number of authors  article type  country of the corresponding author  funding type  subject area  submission track ( pnas has three different ways that authors can submit a paper)  and the previous citation record of the first and last authors. he even administered a supplementary questionnaire to assess whether authors choosing the oa option in pnas chose to do so for only their most important research (they didn't). as ian rowlands from the centre for publishing at university college london—and one of the reviewers who agreed to be identified in this article—said at the start of his review:          “many (most) of the papers and presentations i have read/seen on this topic have completely failed to address the kinds of confounding issues that are so convincingly tackled here. for that reason alone  this paper deserves to be published and alerted to the widest possible audience. ”          in addition to providing evidence for the immediate advantage of open access  eysenbach's analysis also highlights several potential challenges to its long-term future. although a limited dataset  the citation history of the first and last authors differed between those who chose the open-access option and those who did not. in the group that chose open access  last authors tended to have a “stronger” previous citation record  whereas this situation was reversed among the group that declined the open-access option—here  it was the first authors who tended to be stronger. this may reflect varying attitudes of authors at different stages of their career  a stronger influence from the leader of a particular group  or an age- or career-related difference in the ability to pay the publication charge (e.g.  [ 1]). indeed  access to appropriate funds may also be a reason why a lower proportion of authors from european countries tended to choose the open-access option. in many of these countries  funds for page charges—and  by extension  open-access publication fees—are often not included within research grants. pnas was one of the first journals to offer an open-access option to its authors. however  such hybrid journals are increasing: blackwell  springer  and oxford university press now provide this option as well. this means that similar experiments can be replicated. moreover  although the evidence from the current analysis argues most strongly for a time advantage in citation for oa articles  a study over longer periods will reveal whether this translates into a sustained increase in the number of citations. in the meantime  open-access advocates should be emboldened by tangible evidence for what has seemed obvious all along.
4013,pathogenesis of diseases associated with antineutrophil cytoplasm autoantibodies.,little is known about the etiologies of diseases associated with circulating antineutrophil cytoplasm autoantibodies (anca)  such as primary vasculitides and inflammatory bowel diseases. however  the understanding of immune mechanisms supposedly involved in the pathogenesis of these diseases is still growing. in the present review  we first focus on the mechanisms triggering the development of anca  including the potential role of microbial superantigens and the possible defect(s) in the progression of apoptosis or in the removal of apoptotic cells. we next concentrate on the contribution of anca to the clinical symptoms and on the pathogenic role of anca  including the accessibility of anca antigens as targets for circulating antibodies and the mode of action of anca. mechanisms of neutrophil activation by anca include the engagement of fcgamma receptors  the possible mechanisms of neutrophil-mediated tissue damage  and the neutrophil-endothelial interaction.
4015,liver receptor homolog-1 regulates the transcription of steroidogenic enzymes and induces the differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells into steroidogenic cells.,steroidogenic factor-1 (sf-1  also known as ad4bp) has been demonstrated to be a primary transcriptional regulator of steroidogenic-related genes. however  mrna for liver receptor homolog-1 (lrh-1)  which together with sf-1  belongs to the nr5a nuclear receptor family  is expressed at much higher levels than sf-1 mrna in the human gonad. in our previous studies  we demonstrated that sf-1 induced the differentiation of bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (mscs) into steroidogenic cells such as leydig or adrenocortical cells. the introduction of lrh-1 into human mscs (hmscs) with the aid of camp also induced the expression of steroidogenic enzymes  including cyp17  and their differentiation into steroid hormone-producing cells. promoter analysis  emsa  and chromatin immunoprecipitation assay using lrh-1-transduced hmscs indicated that three lrh-1 binding sites were responsible for cyp17 transactivation. immunohistochemical studies showed that lrh-1 protein was expressed in human leydig cells. the cyp17 promoter region was highly methylated in hmscs  whereas it was demethylated by the introduction of lrh-1 and camp treatment. these results indicate that lrh-1 could represent another key regulator of the steroidogenic lineage in mscs and play a vital role in steroid hormone production in human leydig cells.
4017,ecology  economics and political will: the vicissitudes of malaria strategies in asia.,the documented history of malaria in parts of asia goes back more than 2 000 years  during which the disease has been a major player on the socioeconomic stage in many nation states as they waxed and waned in power and prosperity. on a much shorter time scale  the last half century has seen in microcosm a history of large fluctuations in endemicity and impact of malaria across the spectrum of rice fields and rain forests  mountains and plains that reflect the vast ecological diversity inhabited by this majority aggregation of mankind. that period has seen some of the most dramatic changes in social and economic structure  in population size  density and mobility  and in political structure in history: all have played a part in the changing face of malaria in this extensive region of the world. while the majority of global malaria cases currently reside in africa  greater numbers inhabited asia earlier this century before malaria programs savored significant success  and now asia harbors a global threat in the form of the epicenter of multidrug resistant plasmodium falciparum which is gradually encompassing the tropical world. the latter reflects directly the vicissitudes of economic change over recent decades  particularly the mobility of populations in search of commerce  trade and personal fortunes  or caught in the misfortunes of physical conflicts. the period from the 1950s to the 1990s has witnessed near "eradication" followed by resurgence of malaria in sri lanka  control and resurgence in india  the influence of war and postwar instability on drug resistance in cambodia  increase in severe and cerebral malaria in myanmar during prolonged political turmoil  the essential disappearance of the disease from all but forested border areas of thailand where it remains for the moment intractable  the basic elimination of vivax malaria from many provinces of central china. both positive and negative experiences have lessons to teach in the debate between eradication and control as alternative strategies. china has for years held high the goal of "basic elimination"  eradication by another name  in sensible semi-defiance of who dictates. the chinese experience makes it clear that  given community organization  exhaustive attention to case detection  management and focus elimination  plus the political will at all levels of society  it is possible both to eliminate malaria from large areas of an expansive nation and to implement surveillance necessary to maintain something approaching eradication status in those areas. but china has not succeeded in the international border regions of the tropical south where unfettered population movement confounds the program. thailand  malaysia and to an extent vietnam have also reached essential elimination in their rice field plains by vigorous vertical programs but fall short at their forested borders. economics is central to the history of the rise and fall of nations  and to the history of disease in the people who constitute nations. the current love affair with free market economics as the main driving force for advance of national wealth puts severe limitations on the essential involvement of communities in malaria management. the task of malaria control or elimination needs to be clearly related to the basic macroeconomic process that preoccupies governments  not cloistered away in the health sector historically malaria has had a severe  measurable  negative impact on the productivity of nations. economic models need rehoning with political aplomb and integrating with technical and demographic strategies. recent decades in chinese malaria history carry some lessons that may be relevant in this context.
4019,efficacy of human papillomavirus testing for the detection of invasive cervical cancers and cervical intraepithelial neoplasia: a randomised controlled trial.,background human papillomavirus (hpv) testing is known to be more sensitive  but less specific than cytology for detecting cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin). we assessed the efficacy of cervical-cancer screening policies that are based on hpv testing. methods between march  2004  and december  2004  in two separate recruitment phases  women aged 25-60 years were randomly assigned to conventional cytology or to hpv testing in combination with liquid-based cytology (first phase) or alone (second phase). randomisation was done by computer in two screening centres and by sequential opening of numbered sealed envelopes in the remaining seven centres. during phase one  women who were hpv-positive and aged 35-60 years were referred to colposcopy  whereas women aged 25-34 years were referred to colposcopy only if cytology was also abnormal or hpv testing was persistently positive. during phase two  women in the hpv group were referred for colposcopy if the hpv test was positive. two rounds of screening occurred in each phase  and all women had cytology testing only at the second round. the primary endpoint was the detection of grade 2 and 3 cin  and of invasive cervical cancers during the first and second screening rounds. analysis was done by intention to screen. this trial is registered  number isrctn81678807. findings in total for both phases  47 001 women were randomly assigned to the cytology group and 47 369 to hpv testing. 33 851 women from the cytology group and 32 998 from the hpv-testing group had a second round of screening. we also retrieved the histological diagnoses from screening done elsewhere. the detection of invasive cervical cancers was similar for the two groups in the first round of screening (nine in the cytology group vs seven in the hpv group  p=0.62); no cases were detected in the hpv group during round two  compared with nine in the cytology group (p=0.004). overall  in the two rounds of screening  18 invasive cancers were detected in the cytology group versus seven in the hpv group (p=0.028). among women aged 35-60 years  at round one the relative detection (hpv vs cytology) was 2.00 (95% ci 1.44-2.77) for cin2  2.08 (1.47-2.95) for cin3  and 2.03 (1.60-2.57) for cin2 and 3 together. at round two the relative detection was 0.54 (0.23-1.28) for cin2  0.48 (0.21-1.11) for cin3  and 0.51 (0.28-0.93) for cin2 and 3 together. among women aged 25-34 years  there was significant heterogeneity between phases in the relative detection of cin3. at round one the relative detection was 0.93 (0.52-1.64) in phase one and 3.91 (2.02-7.57) in phase two. at round two the relative detection was 1.34 (0.46-3.84) in phase one and 0.20 (0.04-0.93) in phase two. pooling both phases  the detection ratio of cin2 for women aged 25-34 years was 4.09 (2.24-7.48) at round one and 0.64 (0.23-1.27) at round two. interpretation hpv-based screening is more effective than cytology in preventing invasive cervical cancer  by detecting persistent high-grade lesions earlier and providing a longer low-risk period. however  in younger women  hpv screening leads to over-diagnosis of regressive cin2. funding european union  italian ministry of health  regional health administrations of piemonte  tuscany  veneto and emilia-romagna  and public health agency of lazio.
4021,crystal structure of the human aaa+ protein ruvbl1.,ruvbl1 is an evolutionarily highly conserved eukaryotic protein belonging to the aaa(+)-family of atpases (atpase associated with diverse cellular activities). it plays important roles in essential signaling pathways such as the c-myc and wnt pathways in chromatin remodeling  transcriptional and developmental regulation  and dna repair and apoptosis. herein we present the three-dimensional structure of the selenomethionine variant of human ruvbl1 refined using diffraction data to 2.2a of resolution. the crystal structure of the hexamer is formed of adp-bound ruvbl1 monomers. the monomers contain three domains  of which the first and the third are involved in atp binding and hydrolysis. although it has been shown that atpase activity of ruvbl1 is needed for several in vivo functions  we could only detect a marginal activity with the purified protein. structural homology and dna binding studies demonstrate that the second domain  which is unique among aaa(+) proteins and not present in the bacterial homolog ruvb  is a novel dna/rna-binding domain. we were able to demonstrate that ruvbl1 interacted with single-stranded dna/rna and double-stranded dna. the structure of the ruvbl1.adp complex  combined with our biochemical results  suggest that although ruvbl1 has all the structural characteristics of a molecular motor  even of an atp-driven helicase  one or more as yet undetermined cofactors are needed for its enzymatic activity.
4023,quantitative assessment of t-cell repertoire recovery after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation,delayed t cell recovery and restricted t cell receptor (tcr) diversity after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-hsct) are associated with increased risks of infection and cancer relapse. technical challenges have limited faithful measurement of tcr diversity after allo-hsct. here we combined 5' rapid amplification of complementary dna ends pcr with deep sequencing to quantify tcr diversity in 28 recipients of allo-hsct using a single oligonucleotide pair. analysis of duplicate blood samples confirmed that we accurately determined the frequency of individual tcrs. after 6 months  cord blood-graft recipients approximated the tcr diversity of healthy individuals  whereas recipients of t cell-depleted peripheral-blood stem cell grafts had 28-fold and 14-fold lower cd4(+) and cd8(+) t cell diversities  respectively. after 12 months  these deficiencies had improved for the cd4(+) but not the cd8(+) t cell compartment. overall  this method provides unprecedented views of t cell repertoire recovery after allo-hsct and may identify patients at high risk of infection or relapse.
4025,putting p53 in context,tp53 is the most frequently mutated gene in human cancer. functionally  p53 is activated by a host of stress stimuli and  in turn  governs an exquisitely complex anti-proliferative transcriptional program that touches upon a bewildering array of biological responses. despite the many unveiled facets of the p53 network  a clear appreciation of how and in what contexts p53 exerts its diverse effects remains unclear. how can we interpret p53's disparate activities and the consequences of its dysfunction to understand how cell type  mutation profile  and epigenetic cell state dictate outcomes  and how might we restore its tumor-suppressive activities in cancer?
4027,cd28 delivers a unique signal leading to the selective recruitment of rela and p52 nf-kappab subunits on il-8 and bcl-xl gene promoters.,cd28 is one of the most important costimulatory receptors necessary for full t lymphocyte activation. the cd28 receptor can enhance t cell antigen receptor (tcr) signals  as well as deliver independent signals. indeed  cd28 engagement by b7 can generate tcr-independent signals leading to ikappab kinase and nf-kappab activation. here we demonstrate that the tcr-independent cd28 signal leads to the selective transcription of survival (bcl-xl) and inflammatory (il-8 and b cell activation factor  but not proliferative (il-2)  genes  in a nf-kappab-dependent manner. cd28-stimulated t cells actively secrete il-8  and bcl-xl up-regulation protects t cells from radiation-induced apoptosis. the transcription of cd28-induced genes is mediated by the specific recruitment of rela and p52 nf-kappab subunits to target promoters. in contrast  p50 and c-rel  which preferentially bind nf-kappab sites on the il-2 gene promoter after anti-cd3 stimulation  are not involved. thus  we identify cd28 as a key regulator of genes important for both survival and inflammation.
4029,assessment for selection for the health care professions and specialty training: consensus statement and recommendations from the ottawa 2010 conference.,assessment for selection in medicine and the health professions should follow the same quality assurance processes as in-course assessment. the literature on selection is limited and is not strongly theoretical or conceptual. for written testing  there is evidence of the predictive validity of medical college admission test (mcat) for medical school and licensing examination performance. there is also evidence for the predictive validity of grade point average  particularly in combination with mcat for graduate entry but little evidence about the predictive validity of school leaver scores. interviews have not been shown to be robust selection measures. studies of multiple mini-interviews have indicated good predictive validity and reliability. of other measures used in selection  only the growing interest in personality testing appears to warrant future work. widening access to medical and health professional programmes is an increasing priority and relates to the social accountability mandate of medical and health professional schools. while traditional selection measures do discriminate against various population groups  there is little evidence on the effect of non-traditional measures in widening access. preparation and outreach programmes show most promise. in summary  the areas of consensus for assessment for selection are small in number. recommendations for future action focus on the adoption of principles of good assessment and curriculum alignment  use of multi-method programmatic approaches  development of interdisciplinary frameworks and utilisation of sophisticated measurement models. the social accountability mandate of medical and health professional schools demands that social inclusion  workforce issues and widening of access are embedded in the principles of good assessment for selection.
4031,detecting selective sweeps: a new approach based on hidden markov models.,detecting and localizing selective sweeps on the basis of snp data has recently received considerable attention. here we introduce the use of hidden markov models (hmms) for the detection of selective sweeps in dna sequences. like previously published methods  our hmms use the site frequency spectrum  and the spatial pattern of diversity along the sequence  to identify selection. in contrast to earlier approaches  our hmms explicitly model the correlation structure between linked sites. the detection power of our methods  and their accuracy for estimating the selected site location  is similar to that of competing methods for constant size populations. in the case of population bottlenecks  however  our methods frequently showed fewer false positives.
4033,tenectin is a novel alphaps2betaps integrin ligand required for wing morphogenesis and male genital looping in drosophila.,morphogenesis of the adult structures of holometabolous insects is regulated by ecdysteroids and juvenile hormones and involves cell-cell interactions mediated in part by the cell surface integrin receptors and their extracellular matrix (ecm) ligands. these adhesion molecules and their regulation by hormones are not well characterized. we describe the gene structure of a newly described ecm molecule  tenectin  and demonstrate that it is a hormonally regulated ecm protein required for proper morphogenesis of the adult wing and male genitalia. tenectin's function as a new ligand of the ps2 integrins is demonstrated by both genetic interactions in the fly and by cell spreading and cell adhesion assays in cultured cells. its interaction with the ps2 integrins is dependent on rgd and rgd-like motifs. tenectin's function in looping morphogenesis in the development of the male genitalia led to experiments that demonstrate a role for ps integrins in the execution of left-right asymmetry.
4035,potent  selective  and orally bioavailable inhibitors of vps34 provide chemical tools to modulate autophagy in vivo.,autophagy is a dynamic process that regulates lysosomal-dependent degradation of cellular components. until recently the study of autophagy has been hampered by the lack of reliable pharmacological tools  but selective inhibitors are now available to modulate the pi 3-kinase vps34  which is required for autophagy. here we describe the discovery of potent and selective vps34 inhibitors  their pharmacokinetic (pk) properties  and ability to inhibit autophagy in cellular and mouse models.
4037,enhancement of proteasome function by pa28α overexpression protects against oxidative stress.,the principal function of the proteasome is targeted degradation of intracellular proteins. proteasome dysfunction has been observed in experimental cardiomyopathies and implicated in human congestive heart failure. measures to enhance proteasome proteolytic function are currently lacking but would be beneficial in testing the pathogenic role of proteasome dysfunction and could have significant therapeutic potential. the association of proteasome activator 28 (pa28) with the 20s proteasome may play a role in antigen processing. it is unclear  however  whether the pa28 plays any important role outside of antigen presentation  although up-regulation of pa28 has been observed in certain types of cardiomyopathy. here  we show that pa28α overexpression (pa28αoe) stabilized pa28β  increased 11s proteasomes  and enhanced the degradation of a previously validated proteasome surrogate substrate (gfpu) in cultured neonatal rat cardiomyocytes. pa28αoe significantly attenuated h(2)o(2)-induced increases in the protein carbonyls and markedly suppressed apoptosis in cultured cardiomyocytes under basal conditions or when stressed by h(2)o(2). we conclude that pa28αoe is sufficient to up-regulate 11s proteasomes  enhance proteasome-mediated removal of misfolded and oxidized proteins  and protect against oxidative stress in cardiomyocytes  providing a highly sought means to increase proteasomal degradation of abnormal cellular proteins.
4039,regulation of the small gtp-binding protein rho by cell adhesion and the cytoskeleton.,soluble factors from serum such as lysophosphatidic acid (lpa) are thought to activate the small gtp-binding protein rho based on their ability to induce actin stress fibers and focal adhesions in a rho-dependent manner. cell adhesion to extracellular matrices (ecm) has also been proposed to activate rho  but this point has been controversial due to the difficulty of distinguishing changes in rho activity from the structural contributions of ecm to the formation of focal adhesions. to address these questions  we established an assay for gtp-bound cellular rho. plating swiss 3t3 cells on fibronectin-coated dishes elicited a transient inhibition of rho  followed by a phase of rho activation. the activation phase was greatly enhanced by serum. in serum-starved adherent cells  lpa induced transient rho activation  whereas in suspended cells rho activation was sustained. furthermore  suspended cells showed higher rho activity than adherent cells in the presence of serum. these data indicate the existence of an adhesion-dependent negative-feedback loop. we also observed that both cytochalasin d and colchicine trigger rho activation despite their opposite effects on stress fibers and focal adhesions. our results show that ecm  cytoskeletal structures and soluble factors all contribute to regulation of rho activity.
4041,vegf and podocytes in diabetic nephropathy.,vascular endothelial growth factor-a (vegf-a) is a protein secreted by podocytes that is necessary for survival of endothelial cells  podocytes  and mesangial cells. vegf-a regulates slit-diaphragm signaling and podocyte shape via vegf-receptor 2-nephrin-nck-actin interactions. chronic hyperglycemia-induced excess podocyte vegf-a and low endothelial nitric oxide drive the development and the progression of diabetic nephropathy. the abnormal cross-talk between vegf-a and nitric oxide pathways is fueled by the diabetic milieu  resulting in increased oxidative stress. recent findings on these pathogenic molecular mechanisms provide new potential targets for therapy for diabetic renal disease.
4043,conversion of the lac repressor into an allosterically regulated transcriptional activator for mammalian cells.,a novel mammalian regulatory system was created by using the escherichia coli lac repressor. the lac repressor was converted into a mammalian transcriptional activator by modifying the lac repressor coding region to include a nuclear localization signal from the simian virus 40 (sv40) large tumor antigen and the transcription activation domain from the herpes simplex virus type 1 virion protein 16. the lac activator protein (lap) fusions were potent activators of several promoters containing lac operator sequences positioned either upstream or downstream of the transcription unit. a single lac operator allowed for transactivation  whereas multiple operators acted synergistically when separated by a small distance. promoters containing 14 or 21 operator sequences were induced at least 1 000-fold in response to lap  reaching levels of activity 20 to 30 times greater than that of the sv40 early promoter in hela cells. activation was strongly inhibited by isopropyl-beta-d-thiogalactoside (iptg)  indicating that lap retained the functions needed for allosteric regulation. lap was bifunctional  also acting as a repressor of expression of an sv40 promoter containing an operator immediately downstream of the tata box. finally  genetic selection schemes were developed such that lap-expressing cell lines can be generated at high frequency from either established or primary cells in culture.
4045,bax/bak-independent mitoptosis during cell death induced by proteasome inhibition?,proteasome inhibitors induce rapid death of cancer cells. we show that in epithelial cancer cells  such death is associated with dramatic and simultaneous up-regulation of several bh3-only proteins  including bik  bim  mcl-1s  noxa  and puma  as well as p53. elevated levels of these proteins seem to be the result of direct inhibition of their proteasomal degradation  induction of transcription  and active translation. subsequent cell death is independent of bax  and probably bak  and proceeds through the intrinsic mitochondrial apoptosis pathway. we identify the cascade of molecular events responsible for cell death induced by a prototypical proteasome inhibitor  mg132  starting with rapid accumulation of bh3-only proteins in the mitochondria  proceeding through mitochondrial membrane permeabilization and subsequent loss of deltapsi(m)  and leading to irreversible changes of mitochondrial ultrastructure  degradation of mitochondrial network  and detrimental impairment of crucial mitochondrial functions. our results also establish a rationale for the broader use of proteasome inhibitors to kill apoptosis-resistant tumor cells that lack functional bax/bak proteins.
4047,53bp1 nuclear bodies form around dna lesions generated by mitotic transmission of chromosomes under replication stress,completion of genome duplication is challenged by structural and topological barriers that impede progression of replication forks. although this can seriously undermine genome integrity  the fate of dna with unresolved replication intermediates is not known. here  we show that mild replication stress increases the frequency of chromosomal lesions that are transmitted to daughter cells. throughout g1  these lesions are sequestered in nuclear compartments marked by p53-binding protein 1 (53bp1) and other chromatin-associated genome caretakers. we show that the number of such 53bp1 nuclear bodies increases after genetic ablation of blm  a dna helicase associated with dissolution of entangled dna. conversely  53bp1 nuclear bodies are partially suppressed by knocking down smc2  a condensin subunit required for mechanical stability of mitotic chromosomes. finally  we provide evidence that 53bp1 nuclear bodies shield chromosomal fragile sites sequestered in these compartments against erosion. together  these data indicate that restoration of dna or chromatin integrity at loci prone to replication problems requires mitotic transmission to the next cell generations.
4049,dominant optic atrophy  deafness  ptosis  ophthalmoplegia  dystaxia  and myopathy. a new syndrome.,twenty-three members of a 96-member family exhibited an autosomal dominant disorder which has not previously been described. this disorder involves progressive optic atrophy  abnormal electroretinography without retinal pigment changes  and progressive sensorineural hearing loss usually evident in the first or second decade of life. in midlife  ptosis  ophthalmoplegia  dystaxia  and a nonspecific myopathy occur.
4051,small molecule screening in human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived terminal cell types.,a need for better clinical outcomes has heightened interest in the use of physiologically relevant human cells in the drug discovery process. patient-specific human induced pluripotent stem cells may offer a relevant  robust  scalable  and cost-effective model of human disease physiology. small molecule high throughput screening in human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cells with the intent of identifying novel therapeutic compounds is starting to influence the drug discovery process; however  the use of these cells presents many high throughput screening development challenges. this technology has the potential to transform the way drug discovery is performed.
4053,organ-resident  nonlymphoid cells suppress proliferation of autoimmune t-helper lymphocytes.,local presentation of autoantigen by organ-resident cells inappropriately expressing ia determinants has been implicated in organ-specific autoimmunity. experimental autoimmune uveoretinitis  induced in rats by immunization with retinal soluble antigen  is used as a model of organ-specific autoimmunity. in an in vitro system derived from this model  uveitogenic rat t-helper lymphocytes specific to the retinal soluble antigen  or control t-helper lymphocytes reactive to the purified protein derivative of tuberculin  were cocultured with ia-expressing syngeneic retinal glial cells (müller cells) in the presence of specific antigen. antigen presentation was not apparent under ordinary culture conditions  and the müller cells profoundly suppressed the proliferative response of primed t-helper lymphocytes to antigen presented on conventional antigen-presenting cells  as well as their subsequent interleukin-2 (il-2)-dependent expansion. suppression of proliferation was accompanied by inhibition of il-2 production in response to antigen  as well as by reduction in high-affinity il-2 receptor expression  and proceeded via a contact-dependent mechanism. these results suggest a role for locally acting suppression mechanisms in immune regulation and maintenance of tissue homeostasis.
4055,neuromodulation of neurons and synapses.,neuromodulation underlies the flexibility of neural circuit operation and behavior. individual neuromodulators can have divergent actions in a neuron by targeting multiple physiological mechanisms. conversely  multiple neuromodulators may have convergent actions through overlapping targets. the divergent and convergent neuromodulator actions can be unambiguously synergistic or antagonistic  but neuromodulation often entails balanced adjustment of nonlinear membrane and synaptic properties by targeting ion channel and synaptic dynamics rather than just excitability or synaptic strength. in addition  neuromodulators can exert effects at multiple timescales  from short-term adjustments of neuron and synapse function to persistent long-term regulation. this short review summarizes some highlights of the diverse actions of neuromodulators on ion channel and synaptic properties.
4057,breaching the basement membrane: who  when and how?,the basement membrane (bm)  a specialized network of extracellular matrix macromolecules  surrounds epithelial  endothelial  muscle  fat and nerve cells. during development  immune surveillance and disease states ranging from cancer to fibrosis  host cells penetrate the bm by engaging tissue-invasive programs  the identity of which remain largely undefined. although it is commonly assumed that all cells employ similar mechanisms to cross bm barriers  accumulating evidence indicates that cells might selectively mobilize protease-dependent or -independent invasion programs. new data indicate that protease-dependent transmigration is largely reliant on a group of membrane-anchored metalloenzymes  termed the membrane-type matrix metalloproteinases  which irreversibly remodel bm structure. by contrast  mechanisms that enable protease-independent transmigration remain undefined and potentially involve the reversible disassembly of the bm network. further characterization of the molecular mechanisms underlying bm transmigration should provide important insights into pathophysiologic tissue remodeling events and also enable the development of novel therapeutics.
4059,division-coupled astrocytic differentiation and age-related depletion of neural stem cells in the adult hippocampus.,production of new neurons in the adult hippocampus decreases with age; this decline may underlie age-related cognitive impairment. here we show that continuous depletion of the neural stem cell pool  as a consequence of their division  may contribute to the age-related decrease in hippocampal neurogenesis. our results indicate that adult hippocampal stem cells  upon exiting their quiescent state  rapidly undergo a series of asymmetric divisions to produce dividing progeny destined to become neurons and subsequently convert into mature astrocytes. thus  the decrease in the number of neural stem cells is a division-coupled process and is directly related to their production of new neurons. we present a scheme of the neurogenesis cascade in the adult hippocampus that includes a proposed "disposable stem cell" model and accounts for the disappearance of hippocampal neural stem cells  the appearance of new astrocytes  and the age-related decline in the production of new neurons.
4061,iguanas and salmonella marina infection in children: a reflection of the increasing incidence of reptile-associated salmonellosis in the united states.,objective to investigate clinical aspects and risk factors for salmonella serotype marina infection in the united states. methods we identified all isolates of s marina reported in 1994 to the national salmonella surveillance system. patients were interviewed about demographic information  clinical course  diet  travel history  and contact with reptiles before illness. results twenty-six (81%) of 32 patients were infants (<1 year of age) and 24 (75%) were male. this differs from other salmonella isolates reported to the centers for disease control and prevention in 1994  of which 14% were from infants and 49% from male patients. eleven patients (34%) were hospitalized for a median of 3.5 days (range: 2 to 21 days)  and 1 died. of 28 patients (88%) with reported iguana exposure  only 4 (14%) touched the reptile  and only 12 respondents (43%) realized that it might have been the source of infection. seven (32%) of 22 families who owned an iguana at the time of illness continued to own an iguana when contacted a median of 28 weeks later. persons who thought that the iguana was the source of infection were more likely to have given away or sold the pet than those who did not. four isolates (13%) were from blood. bacteremia was associated with taking antibiotics during the 30 days before s marina infection (odds ratio: 24; 95% confidence interval: 1.2-1309). conclusion s marina infection is a potentially serious illness associated with iguana exposure  and it reflects the larger problem of reptile-associated salmonellosis. many parents do not know that owning an iguana puts their children at risk for salmonella infection. pediatricians  veterinarians  and pet store owners should inform their patients and customers of the potential risks of owning reptiles and provide appropriate preventive education.
4063,methods for quantifying follicular numbers within the mouse ovary.,accurate estimation of the number of ovarian follicles at various stages of development is an important indicator of the process of folliculogenesis in relation to the endocrine signals and paracrine/autocrine mechanisms that control the growth and maturation of the oocytes and their supporting follicular cells. there are 10-fold or greater differences in follicular numbers per ovary at similar ages and/or strains reported in earlier studies using various methods  leading to difficulties with interpretation of ovarian function in control vs experimental conditions. this study describes unbiased  assumption-free stereological methods for quantification of early and growing follicular numbers in the mouse ovary. a fractionator approach was used to sample a defined fraction of histological sections of adult wild-type ovaries. primordial and primary follicles were counted independently with the optical and physical disector methods. the fractionator/disector methods  which are independent of follicular size or shape  gave estimations of 1930 +/- 286 (s.e.m.) and 2227 +/- 101 primordial follicles  and 137 +/- 25 and 265 +/- 32 primary follicles per ovary at 70 and 100 days of age respectively. from exact counts on serial sections  secondary and later follicular numbers at 100 days of age were estimated at 135 per ovary. remnants of zona pellucidae (a marker of previous follicular atresia) were estimated using a fractionator/physical disector approach and were approximately 500 per ovary. the application of the quantitative methods described will facilitate an improved understanding of follicular dynamics and the factors that mediate their growth and maturation and allow for a better comparison between different studies.
4065,evidence regarding human papillomavirus testing in secondary prevention of cervical cancer.,more than ever  clinicians need regularly updated reviews given the continuously increasing amount of new information regarding innovative cervical cancer prevention methods. a summary is given from recent meta-analyses and systematic reviews on 3 possible clinical applications of human papillomavirus (hpv) testing: triage of women with equivocal or low-grade cytologic abnormalities; prediction of the therapeutic outcome after treatment of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (cin) lesions  and last not but not least  primary screening for cervical cancer and pre-cancer. consistent evidence is available indicating that hpv-triage with the hybrid capture(®) 2 assay (qiagen gaithersburg  inc.  md  usa [previously digene corp.] (hc2) is more accurate (higher sensitivity  similar specificity) than repeat cytology to triage women with equivocal pap smear results. several other tests show at least similar accuracy but mrna testing with the aptima(®) (gen-probe inc.  san diego  ca  usa) test is similarly sensitive but more specific compared to hc2. in triage of low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (lsil)  hc2 is more sensitive but its specificity is substantially lower compared to repeat cytology. the aptima(®) test is more specific than hc2 without showing a loss in sensitivity. identification of dna of hpv types 16 and/or 18  or rna from the five most carcinogenic hpv types allow selecting women at highest risk for cin3+ but the sensitivity and negative predictive value of these markers are lower than full-range high-risk hpv (hrhpv) testing. after conservative treatment of cervical pre-cancer  hpv testing picks up more quickly  with higher sensitivity and not lower specificity  residual or recurrent high-grade cin than follow-up cytology. primary screening for hrhpv generally detects more cin2  cin3 or cancer compared to cytology at cut-off atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance (asc-us) or lsil  but is less specific. combined hpv and cytology screening provides a further small gain in sensitivity at the expense of a considerable loss in specificity if positive by either test is referred to colposcopy  in comparison with hpv testing only. randomised trials and follow-up of cohort studies consistently demonstrate a significantly lower cumulative incidence of cin3+ and even of cancer  in women aged 30 years or older  who were at enrollment hrhpv dna negative compared to those who were cytologically negative. the difference in cumulative risk of cin3+ or cancer for double negative (cytology & hpv) versus only hpv-negative women is small. hc2  gp5+/6+ pcr (polymerase chain reaction)  cobas(®) 4800 pcr (roche molecular systems inc.  alameda  ca  usa) and real time pcr (abbott molecular  des plaines  il  usa) can be considered as clinically validated for use in primary screening. the loss in specificity associated with primary hpv-based screening can be compensated by appropriate algorithms involving reflex cytology and/or hpv genotyping for hpv16 or 18. there exists a substantial evidence base to support that hpv testing is advantageous both in triage of women with equivocal abnormal cytology  in surveillance after treatment of cin lesions and in primary screening of women aged 30 years or older. however  the possible advantages offered by hpv-based screening require a well organised program with good compliance with screening and triage policies. this article forms part of a special supplement entitled "comprehensive control of hpv infections and related diseases" vaccine volume 30  supplement 5  2012.
4067,role of nf-kappa b in cell survival and transcription of latent membrane protein 1-expressing or epstein-barr virus latency iii-infected cells.,epstein-barr virus (ebv) latency iii infection converts b lymphocytes into lymphoblastoid cell lines (lcls) by expressing ebv nuclear and membrane proteins  ebnas  and latent membrane proteins (lmps)  which regulate transcription through notch and tumor necrosis factor receptor pathways. the role of nf-kappa b in lmp1 and overall ebv latency iii transcriptional effects was investigated by treating lcls with bay11-7082 (bay11). bay11 rapidly and irreversibly inhibited nf-kappa b  decreased mitochondrial membrane potential  induced apoptosis  and altered lcl gene expression. bay11 effects were similar to those of an nf-kappa b inhibitor  delta n-i kappa b alpha  in effecting decreased jnk1 expression and in microarray analyses. more than 80% of array elements that decreased with delta n-i kappa b alpha expression decreased with bay11 treatment. newly identified nf-kappa b-induced  lmp1-induced  and ebv-induced genes included pleckstrin  jun-b  c-flip  cip4  and i kappa b epsilon. of 776 significantly changed array elements  134 were fourfold upregulated in ebv latency iii  and 74 were fourfold upregulated with lmp1 expression alone  whereas only 28 were more than fourfold downregulated by ebv latency iii. ebv latency iii-regulated gene products mediate cell migration (ebi2  ccr7  rgs1  rantes  mip1 alpha  mip1 beta  cxcr5  and rgs13)  antigen presentation (major histocompatibility complex proteins and jaw1)  mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway (dusp5 and p62dok)  and interferon (ifn) signaling (ifn-gamma r alpha  irf-4  and stat1). comparison of ebv latency iii lcl gene expression to immunoglobulin m (igm)-stimulated b cells  germinal-center b cells  and germinal-center-derived lymphomas clustered lcls with igm-stimulated b cells separately from germinal-center cells or germinal-center lymphoma cells. expression of irf-2  aim1  ask1  snf2l2  and components of ifn signaling pathways further distinguished ebv latency iii-infected b cells from igm-stimulated or germinal-center b cells.
4069,pancreatic tumor cells with mutant k-ras suppress erk activity by mek-dependent induction of map kinase phosphatase-2.,activating mutations within the k-ras gene occur in a high percentage of human pancreatic carcinomas. we reported previously that the presence of oncogenic  activated k-ras in human pancreatic carcinoma cell lines did not result in constitutive activation of the extracellular signal-regulated kinases (erk1 and erk2). in the present study  we further characterized the erk signaling pathway in pancreatic tumor cell lines in order to determine whether the erk pathway is subject to a compensatory downregulation. we found that the attenuation of serum-induced erk activation was not due to a delay in the kinetics of erk phosphorylation. treatment with the tyrosine phosphatase inhibitor orthovanadate increased the level of erk phosphorylation  implicating a vanadate-sensitive tyrosine phosphatase in the negative regulation of erk. furthermore  expression of a dual specificity phosphatase capable of inactivating erk known as mitogen-activated protein (map) kinase phosphatase-2 (mkp-2) was elevated in most of the pancreatic tumor cell lines and correlated with the presence of active map kinase kinase (mek). taken together  these results suggest that pancreatic tumor cells expressing oncogenic k-ras compensate  in part  by upregulating the expression of mkp-2 to repress the erk signaling pathway.
4071,mir-294/mir-302 promotes proliferation  suppresses g1-s restriction point  and inhibits esc differentiation through separable mechanisms.,the mir-294 and mir-302 micrornas promote the abbreviated g1 phase of the embryonic stem cell (esc) cell cycle and suppress differentiation induced by let-7. here  we evaluated the role of the retinoblastoma (rb) family proteins in these settings. under normal growth conditions  mir-294 promoted the rapid g1-s transition independent of the rb family. in contrast  mir-294 suppressed the further accumulation of cells in g1 in response to nutrient deprivation and cell-cell contact in an rb-dependent fashion. we uncovered five additional mirnas (mir-26a  mir-99b  mir-193  mir-199a-5p  and mir-218) that silenced esc self-renewal in the absence of other mirnas  all of which were antagonized by mir-294 and mir-302. four of the six differentiation-inducing mirnas induced an rb-dependent g1 accumulation. however  all six still silenced self-renewal in the absence of the rb proteins. these results show that the mir-294/mir-302 family acts through rb-dependent and -independent pathways to regulate the g1 restriction point and the silencing of self-renewal  respectively.
4073,neutrophil elastase-mediated lung disease.,elastases of both the neutrophil and macrophage have been implicated in lung disease initiation and progression. although it is unlikely that these proteases evolved for the purpose of injuring lung tissue  the elastin-rich connective tissue framework of the lungs appears to be particularly susceptible to the action of elastolytic proteases. assuming that neutrophil elastase most likely plays a role in the migration of neutrophils toward a site of inflammation and degradation of proteins from invading organisms or other products of the inflammatory response  it is the role of inhibitors of this protease to protect normal tissues from its effects. in alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency we find an experiment of nature that disrupts this protease-anti-protease balance  resulting in an increased risk of destructive lung disease.
4075,adult t-cell leukemia/lymphoma in london: clinical experience of 21 cases.,adult t-cell leukemia/lymphoma (atll) is uncommon in the united kingdom and has so far been restricted to people of afro-caribbean extraction. between 1981 and 1995  21 cases presented to 2 inner london teaching hospitals where 17% of the population are of afro-caribbean origin. clinical presentations were similar to those of the disease in htlv-i-endemic areas. major responses (cr + pr) were obtained in 10/16 assessable patients (63%) treated with combination chemotherapy. however  median survival was only 5.5 months. disease progression and opportunistic infection were the major causes of treatment failure and death. three patients (14%) relapsed in the central nervous system (cns). our cases confirm the profound immunosuppression in atll. the poor prognosis of acute and lymphoma types of atll highlight the need for new approaches to treatment such as zidovudine and alpha-interferon  incorporating prophylaxis against cns disease and opportunistic infections.
4077,poverty  hunger  education  and residential status impact survival in hiv,despite combination antiretroviral therapy (art)  hiv infected people have higher mortality than non-infected. lower socioeconomic status (ses) predicts higher mortality in many chronic illnesses but data in people with hiv is limited. we evaluated 878 hiv infected individuals followed from 1995 to 2005. cox proportional hazards for all-cause mortality were estimated for ses measures and other factors. mixed effects analyses examined how ses impacts factors predicting death. the 200 who died were older  had lower cd4 counts  and higher viral loads (vl). age  transmission category  education  albumin  cd4 counts  vl  hunger  and poverty predicted death in univariate analyses; age  cd4 counts  albumin  vl  and poverty in the multivariable model. mixed models showed associations between (1) cd4 counts with education and hunger; (2) albumin with education  homelessness  and poverty; and (3) vl with education and hunger. ses contributes to mortality in hiv infected persons directly and indirectly  and should be a target of health policy in this population.
4079,concentrations of tenofovir and emtricitabine in saliva: implications for preexposure prophylaxis of oral hiv acquisition.,to prevent acquisition of hiv through oral sex  drugs used for preexposure prophylaxis (prep) need to diffuse in saliva. we measured tenofovir (tfv) and emtricitabine (ftc) concentrations simultaneously in the plasma and saliva of 41 hiv-infected patients under stable antiretroviral treatment. mean ratios of saliva/plasma concentration were 3% (±4%) and 86.9% (±124%) for tfv and ftc  respectively. tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (tdf) should be used in combination with ftc to prevent oral acquisition of hiv.
4081,qtc interval length and qt dispersion as predictors of mortality in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes.,patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes (niddm) are at independent risk of cardiovascular death. the reason is only partially understood. the aim of our study was therefore to evaluate the impact of corrected qt interval length (qtc) and qt dispersion (qt-disp) on mortality in a cohort of 324 caucasian niddm patients. a resting 12-lead ecg was recorded at baseline. maximum (qt-max) and minimum qt (qt-min) intervals were measured  and qt-max was corrected for heart rate (qtc-max). qt-disp was defined as the difference between qt-max and qt-min. qtc-max was 454 (376-671) ms(1/2) (median (range)) and qt-disp 61 (0-240) ms. prolonged qtc interval (pqtc)  defined as qtc-max > 440 ms(1/2)  was present in 67% of the patients and prolonged qt-disp (pqt-disp)  defined as qt-disp > 50 ms  was present in 51%. during the 9-year follow-up period  100 patients died (52 from cardiovascular diseases). thirty-seven percent of the patients with pqtc died compared with 17% with normal qtc interval (p<0.001). the cox proportional hazard model  including putative risk factors at baseline  revealed the following independent predictors of all cause mortality; qtc-max (p<0.05)  age (p<0.0001)  albuminuria (p<0.01)  retinopathy (p<0.01)  hba1c (p<0.05)  insulin treatment (p<0.01)  total cholesterol (p<0.01)  serum creatinine (p<0.05) and presence of cardiac heart disease based on minnesota coded ecg (p<0.001). whereas qt-disp was not a predictor  qtc-max interval was an independent predictor of cardiovascular mortality. our study showed a high prevalence of qtc and qt-disp abnormalities and indicated that qtc-max but not qt-disp is an independent predictor of all cause and cardiovascular mortality in niddm patients.
4083,recombinant human tumor necrosis factor administered as a five-day continuous infusion in cancer patients: phase i toxicity and effects on lipid metabolism.,recombinant human tumor necrosis factor (rh-tnf) is a cytotoxic monokine with pleiotropic effects. a phase i trial of rh-tnf was initiated using a five-day continuous intravenous (iv) infusion repeated every 28 days. thirty-eight courses of therapy were administered to 19 patients. the starting dose was 5 x 10(4) u/m2/d  with escalations to 1.0 x 10(5)  2.0 x 10(5)  2.4 x 10(5)  and 3.0 x 10(5) u/m2/d. systemic side effects  including fever  chills  hypotension  fatigue  anorexia  and headaches  were mild and self-limiting. at the maximum tolerated dose of 3.0 x 10(5) u/m2/d  dose-limiting hematologic toxicity was manifested by transient thrombocytopenia and leukopenia. elevated bilirubin levels were also seen at the higher dose levels. lipoprotein analysis demonstrated that the five-day treatment with rh-tnf was associated with decreases in high-density lipoproteins  as well as increases in triglycerides and very-low-density lipoproteins. pharmacokinetic studies using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (elisa) test indicated plasma rh-tnf levels less than 0.2 u/ml. the recommended phase ii dose of rh-tnf administered as a five-day continuous infusion is 2.4 x 10(5) u/m2/d.
4085,the role of prevention in oncology practice: results from a 2004 survey of american society of clinical oncology members.,purpose in 2004  the american society of clinical oncology (asco) cancer prevention committee surveyed the members to describe involvement in clinical prevention activities. methods a previously administered survey  with updated items on genetics  chemoprevention  and survivorship  was mailed to a stratified random sample of 2 000 domestic members and a convenience sample of 3 144 international members. results a total of 49.7% of domestic members contacted and survey eligible responded (n = 851). nonresponders were younger (50.5 v 51.7 years; p < .01); 465 international members responded. overall  35% had received formal instruction in cancer prevention and control  and most respondents expected increased use of prevention  screening/early detection  and risk reduction/genetic counseling in their practices in the next 5 years. most reported caring for cancer survivors  including providing general medical care. they also either directly provide or refer patients for cancer prevention and control services (eg  cancer screening  tobacco and nutrition counseling  risk reduction  and chemoprevention). multivariable modeling found fewer perceived barriers to inclusion of cancer prevention activities in clinical practice among those practicing in an academic setting  seeing a higher proportion of patients without a cancer diagnosis  having formal training in prevention and control  expecting an increase in prevention activities in the next 5 years  and providing community advice on prevention. conclusion barriers to the inclusion of cancer prevention and control activities in oncology clinical practice exist. nevertheless  a substantial proportion of both domestic and international asco members report an interest in cancer prevention and control activities  with a desire for more specific educational programs in this emerging area of oncology practice.
4087,tlr-mediated innate production of ifn-γ by cd8+ t cells is independent of glycolysis.,cd8(+) t cells can respond to unrelated infections in an ag-independent manner. this rapid innate-like immune response allows ag-experienced t cells to alert other immune cell types to pathogenic intruders. in this study  we show that murine cd8(+) t cells can sense tlr2 and tlr7 ligands  resulting in rapid production of ifn-γ but not of tnf-α and il-2. importantly  ag-experienced t cells activated by tlr ligands produce sufficient ifn-γ to augment the activation of macrophages. in contrast to ag-specific reactivation  tlr-dependent production of ifn-γ by cd8(+) t cells relies exclusively on newly synthesized transcripts without inducing mrna stability. furthermore  transcription of ifn-γ upon tlr triggering depends on the activation of pi3k and serine-threonine kinase akt  and protein synthesis relies on the activation of the mechanistic target of rapamycin. we next investigated which energy source drives the tlr-induced production of ifn-γ. although ag-specific cytokine production requires a glycolytic switch for optimal cytokine release  glucose availability does not alter the rate of ifn-γ production upon tlr-mediated activation. rather  mitochondrial respiration provides sufficient energy for tlr-induced ifn-γ production. to our knowledge  this is the first report describing that tlr-mediated bystander activation elicits a helper phenotype of cd8(+) t cells. it induces a short boost of ifn-γ production that leads to a significant but limited activation of ag-experienced cd8(+) t cells. this activation suffices to prime macrophages but keeps t cell responses limited to unrelated infections.
4089,simian immunodeficiency virus–induced mucosal interleukin-17 deficiency promotes salmonella dissemination from the gut,salmonella typhimurium causes a localized enteric infection in immunocompetent individuals  whereas hiv-infected individuals develop a life-threatening bacteremia. here we show that simian immunodeficiency virus (siv) infection results in depletion of t helper type 17 (th17) cells in the ileal mucosa of rhesus macaques  thereby impairing mucosal barrier functions to s. typhimurium dissemination. in siv-negative macaques  the gene expression profile induced by s. typhimurium in ligated ileal loops was dominated by th17 responses  including the expression of interleukin-17 (il-17) and il-22. th17 cells were markedly depleted in siv-infected rhesus macaques  resulting in blunted th17 responses to s. typhimurium infection and increased bacterial dissemination. il-17 receptor–deficient mice showed increased systemic dissemination of s. typhimurium from the gut  suggesting that il-17 deficiency causes defects in mucosal barrier function. we conclude that siv infection impairs the il-17 axis  an arm of the mucosal immune response preventing systemic microbial dissemination from the gastrointestinal tract.
4091,redox-dependent downregulation of rho by rac,rac and rho gtpases function as critical regulators of actin cytoskeleton remodelling during cell spreading and migration. here we demonstrate that rac-mediated reactive oxygen species (ros) production results in the downregulation of rho activity. the redox-dependent decrease in rho activity is required for rac-induced formation of membrane ruffles and integrin-mediated cell spreading. the pathway linking generation of ros to downregulation of rho involves inhibition of the low-molecular-weight protein tyrosine phosphatase (lmw-ptp) and then an increase in the tyrosine phosphorylation and activation of its target  p190rho-gap. our findings define a novel mechanism for the coupling of changes in cellular redox state to the control of actin cytoskeleton rearrangements by rho gtpases.
4093,a single residue determines the cooperative binding property of a primosomal dna replication protein  prib  to single-stranded dna.,prib is a primosomal protein required for re-initiation of replication in bacteria. we characterized and compared the dna-binding properties of prib from salmonella enterica serovar typhimurium lt2 (stprib) and escherichia coli (ecprib). only one residue of ecprib  v6  was different in stprib (replaced by a6). previous structural information revealed that this residue is located on the putative dimer-dimer interface of prib and is not involved in single-stranded dna (ssdna) binding. the cooperative binding mechanism of stprib to dna is  however  very different from that of ecprib. unlike ecprib  which forms a single complex with ssdnas of various lengths  stprib forms two or more distinct complexes. based on these results  as well as information on structure  binding modes for forming a stable complex of prib with ssdna of 25 nucleotides (nt)  (ecprib)25  and (stprib)25 are proposed.
4095,"we charge them; otherwise we cannot run the hospital" front line workers  clients and health financing policy implementation gaps in ghana.,objectives this paper examines policy implementation gaps of user fees plus exemptions and health insurance in providing financial access to primary clinical care for children under five in ghana. methods methods included analysis of routine data  focus group discussions  in-depth interviews  and administration of a structured questionnaire. results providers modified exemptions policy implementation arrangements  sometimes giving partial or no exemptions. clients who knew or suspected exemption entitlements failed to request them because of fear of negative reactions from providers. providers attributed their modification of implementation arrangements and negative reactions to the threat posed to the financial viability of their institutions by reimbursement uncertainty and delays. at the time of the study insurance coverage was low and frontline workers were not noticeably modifying implementation arrangements. however  the underlying goal conflicts  resource scarcity  conditions of work and relationships between frontline workers and clients that fueled the exemptions policy implementation gaps were unchanged. the potential for the health insurance policy to stumble over implementation gaps as happened with the exemptions policy therefore remained. conclusions policies that do not take into account the incentives for frontline worker adherence and align them better with policy objectives may experience implementation gaps.
4097,transcriptional repression of gata3 is essential for early b cell commitment,the mechanisms underlying the silencing of alternative fate potentials in very early b cell precursors remain unclear. using gain- and loss-of-function approaches together with a synthetic zinc-finger polypeptide (6zfp) engineered to prevent transcription factor binding to a defined cis element  we show that the transcription factor ebf1 promotes b cell lineage commitment by directly repressing expression of the t-cell-lineage-requisite gata3 gene. ebf1-deficient lymphoid progenitors exhibited increased t cell lineage potential and elevated gata3 transcript expression  whereas enforced ebf1 expression inhibited t cell differentiation and caused rapid loss of gata3 mrna. notably  6zfp-mediated perturbation of ebf1 binding to a gata3 regulatory region restored gata3 expression  abrogated ebf1-driven suppression of t cell differentiation  and prevented b cell differentiation via a gata3-dependent mechanism. furthermore  ebf1 binding to gata3 regulatory sites induced repressive histone modifications across this region. these data identify a transcriptional circuit critical for b cell lineage commitment.
4099,role of circulating nitrite and s-nitrosohemoglobin in the regulation of regional blood flow in humans.,to determine the relative contributions of endothelial-derived nitric oxide (no) vs. intravascular nitrogen oxide species in the regulation of human blood flow  we simultaneously measured forearm blood flow and arterial and venous levels of plasma nitrite  lmw-snos and hmw-snos  and red cell s-nitrosohemoglobin (sno-hb). measurements were made at rest and during regional inhibition of no synthesis  followed by forearm exercise. surprisingly  we found significant circulating arterial-venous plasma nitrite gradients  providing a novel delivery source for intravascular no. further supporting the notion that circulating nitrite is bioactive  the consumption of nitrite increased significantly with exercise during the inhibition of regional endothelial synthesis of no. the role of circulating s-nitrosothiols and sno-hb in the regulation of basal vascular tone is less certain. we found that low-molecular-weight s-nitrosothiols were undetectable and s-nitroso-albumin levels were two logs lower than previously reported. in fact  s-nitroso-albumin primarily formed in the venous circulation  even during no synthase inhibition. whereas sno-hb was measurable in the human circulation (brachial artery levels of 170 nm in whole blood)  arterial-venous gradients were not significant  and delivery of no from sno-hb was minimal. in conclusion  we present data that suggest (i) circulating nitrite is bioactive and provides a delivery gradient of intravascular no  (ii) s-nitroso-albumin does not deliver no from the lungs to the tissue but forms in the peripheral circulation  and (iii) sno-hb and s-nitrosothiols play a minimal role in the regulation of basal vascular tone  even during exercise stress.
4101,familial recurrence-pattern analysis of nonsyndromic isolated cleft palate--a danish registry study.,the finding of an association between genetic variation at the transforming growth-factor alpha (tgfa) locus and nonsyndromic isolated cleft palate (cp) represents a potentially important breakthrough in our understanding of this condition. the present study was undertaken to assess the feasibility of detecting linkage to putative cp-susceptibility loci  such as tgfa. to this end  the familial recurrence pattern for cp was evaluated to determine the most likely mode of inheritance for this condition. the study took advantage of the high ascertainment and uniform registration of cp in denmark. in addition  the study utilized estimates of familial recurrence that were obtained by register linkage and  hence  were not subject to either recall bias or the potentially biasing influence of nonresponders. the recurrence risks for first-  second-  and third-degree relatives of 1 364 nonsyndromic cp probands were estimated to be 2.74% (72/2 628)  0.28% (3/1 068)  and 0.00% (0/360)  respectively. these estimates are close to published estimates based on questionnaire and interview data. the population prevalence for nonsyndromic cp was  however  found to be considerable higher than usually reported (0.058% [1 456/2 523 023]). analyses of these and previously published data  using the method presented by risch  indicated that major-locus or additive multilocus inheritance of cp is unlikely. the familial recurrence pattern was  however  consistent with cp being determined by several interacting loci. under such a model  a single locus accounting for more than a sixfold increase in the risk to first-degree relatives of cp probands is unlikely  whereas a single locus accounting for a threefold increase provided a good fit to the data. such a locus could be detected in a realistic sample of affected sib pairs.
4103,klebsiella aerogenes urease gene cluster: sequence of ured and demonstration that four accessory genes (ured  uree  uref  and ureg) are involved in nickel metallocenter biosynthesis.,the region located immediately upstream from the klebsiella aerogenes urease structural genes was sequenced and shown to possess an open reading frame capable of encoding a 29.8-kda peptide. deletions were generated in this gene  denoted ured  and in each of the genes (uree  uref  and ureg) located immediately downstream of the three structural genes. transformation of the mutated plasmids into escherichia coli resulted in high levels of urease expression  but the enzyme was inactive (deletions in ured  uref  or ureg) or only partially active (deletions in uree). ureases were purified from the recombinant cells and shown to be identical to control enzyme when analyzed by gel filtration chromatography and sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis; however  in every case the activity levels correlated to nickel contents as analyzed by atomic absorption analysis. ured  uree  uref  and ureg peptides were tentatively identified by gel electrophoretic comparison of mutant and control cell extracts  by in vivo expression of separately cloned genes  or by in vitro transcription-translation analyses; the assignments were confirmed for uree and ureg by amino-terminal sequencing. the latter peptides (apparent m(r)s  23 900 and 28 500) were present at high levels comparable to those of the urease subunits  whereas the amounts of uref (apparent m(r)  27 000) and ured (apparent m(r)  29 300) were greatly reduced  perhaps because of the lack of good ribosome binding sites in the regions upstream of these open reading frames. these results demonstrate that all four accessory genes are necessary for the functional incorporation of the urease metallocenter.
4105,disturbances in the positioning  proliferation and apoptosis of neural progenitors contribute to subcortical band heterotopia formation.,cortical malformations are commonly associated with intractable epilepsy and other developmental disorders. our studies utilize the tish rat  a spontaneously occurring genetic model of subcortical band heterotopia (sbh) associated with epilepsy  to evaluate the developmental events underlying sbh formation in the neocortex. our results demonstrate that pax6(+) and tbr2(+) progenitors are mislocalized in tish(+/-) and tish(-/-)- neocortex throughout neurogenesis. in addition  mislocalized tish(-/-) progenitors possess a longer cell cycle than wild type or normally-positioned tish(-/-) progenitors  owing to a lengthened g(2)+m+g(1) time. this mislocalization is not associated with adherens junction breakdown or loss of radial glial polarity in the ventricular zone (vz)  as assessed by immunohistochemistry against phalloidin (to identify f-actin)  apkc-λ and par3. however  vimentin immunohistochemistry indicates that the radial glial scaffold is disrupted in the region of the tish(-/-) heterotopia. moreover  lineage tracing experiments using in utero electroporation in tish(-/-) neocortex demonstrate that mislocalized progenitors do not retain contact with the ventricular surface and that ventricular/subventricular zone (svz) progenitors produce neurons that migrate into both the heterotopia and cortical plate (cp). taken together  these findings define a series of developmental errors contributing to sbh formation that differs fundamentally from a primary error in neuronal migration.
4107,gitr  a member of the tnf receptor superfamily  is costimulatory to mouse t lymphocyte subpopulations.,gitr (glucocorticoid-induced tnfr family related gene) is a member of the tnfr superfamily (tnfrsf) that is expressed in different cell types  including t lymphocytes. because of a high homology in its cytoplasmic region with other known costimulatory members of the tnfrsf  we investigated whether gitr played a costimulatory role in t lymphocyte subpopulations. our results show that the proliferation response of cd8+ and cd4+ peripheral t cell subpopulations was potentiated when a gitr costimulus was added to an anti-cd3 stimulus. furthermore  expression of the main activation-induced receptor (il-2ralpha) and production of il-2 and ifn-gamma were increased more with a gitr costimulus than with anti-cd3 alone. gitr stimulation also enhanced anti-cd3-induced erk phosphorylation  suggesting that gitr is involved in mapk-pathway activation. interestingly  cd4+cd25+ regulatory t cell (treg cell) proliferation was triggered by the gitr costimulus; treg cell proliferation was paralleled by the loss of the anergic phenotype and suppressor activity. nevertheless  unstimulated gitr(-/-) cd4+cd25+ and gitr(+/+) cd4+cd25+ cells were equally able to exert suppressor activity on cd4+cd25- responder cells. these results indicate a novel function for gitr as costimulatory molecule of t cell subsets.
4109,sequence-based species delimitation for the dna taxonomy of undescribed insects.,cataloging the very large number of undescribed species of insects could be greatly accelerated by automated dna based approaches  but procedures for large-scale species discovery from sequence data are currently lacking. here  we use mitochondrial dna variation to delimit species in a poorly known beetle radiation in the genus rivacindela from arid australia. among 468 individuals sampled from 65 sites and multiple morphologically distinguishable types  sequence variation in three mtdna genes (cytochrome oxidase subunit 1  cytochrome b  16s ribosomal rna) was strongly partitioned between 46 or 47 putative species identified with quantitative methods of species recognition based on fixed unique ("diagnostic") characters. the boundaries between groups were also recognizable from a striking increase in branching rate in clock-constrained calibrated trees. models of stochastic lineage growth (yule models) were combined with coalescence theory to develop a new likelihood method that determines the point of transition from species-level (speciation and extinction) to population-level (coalescence) evolutionary processes. fitting the location of the switches from speciation to coalescent nodes on the ultrametric tree of rivacindela produced a transition in branching rate occurring at 0.43 mya  leading to an estimate of 48 putative species (confidence interval for the threshold ranging from 47 to 51 clusters within 2 logl units). entities delimited in this way exhibited biological properties of traditionally defined species  showing coherence of geographic ranges  broad congruence with morphologically recognized species  and levels of sequence divergence typical for closely related species of insects. the finding of discontinuous evolutionary groupings that are readily apparent in patterns of sequence variation permits largely automated species delineation from dna surveys of local communities as a scaffold for taxonomy in this poorly known insect group.
4111,inhibition of receptor-mediated calcium influx in t cells by unsaturated non-esterified fatty acids.,the effect of omega-3  omega-6 and omega-9 unsaturated fatty acids (ufas) on receptor-mediated ca2+ entry was investigated in a t-cell line (jurkat) by using anti-cd3 antibodies (okt3) to induce intracellular ca2+ [( ca2+]i) increase and ca2+ influx. all the ufas  as well as ni2+ ions and 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate  decreased the okt3-induced sustained [ca2+]i increase to basal levels. although non-esterified fatty acids activate protein kinase c (pkc) [mcphail  clayton & snyderman (1984) science 224  622-624; murakami  chan & routtenberg (1986) j. biol. chem. 261  15424-15429]  studies using h-7 and analysis of the pkc-dependent phosphorylation of 19 and 80 kda marker substrates ruled out the involvement of pkc in ufa-induced inhibition of ca2+ entry. flow-cytometry analysis showed that ufas do not interfere with antibody-receptor binding. bsa (0.2%  w/v) reversed the effect of ufas after these fatty acids have decreased the okt3-induced [ca2+]i increase to basal levels. the relevance of these findings and possible mechanisms for inhibition by ufas of receptor-mediated ca2+ influx were discussed.
4113,interaction of helicobacter pylori with gastric epithelial cells is mediated by the p53 protein family.,background & aims although the p53 tumor suppressor has been extensively studied  many critical questions remain unanswered about the biological functions of p53 homologs  p73 and p63. accumulating evidence suggests that both p73 and p63 play important roles in regulation of apoptosis  cell differentiation  and therapeutic drug sensitivity. methods gastric epithelial cells were cocultured with helicobacter pylori  and the roles of p63 and p73 proteins were assessed by luciferase reporter  real-time polymerase chain reaction  immunoblotting  and cell survival assays. short hairpin rna and dominant-negative mutants were used to inhibit activity of p73 and p63 isoforms. human and murine gastric tissues were analyzed by immunohistochemistry with p73 and p63 antibodies and modified steiner's silver method. results interaction of h pylori with gastric epithelial cells leads to robust up-regulation of p73 protein in vitro and in vivo in human gastritis specimens and h pylori-infected mice. the p73 increase resulted in up-regulation of pro-apoptotic genes  noxa  puma  and fas receptor in gastric epithelial cells. down-regulation of p73 activity suppressed cell death and fas receptor induced by h pylori. bacterial virulence factors within the cag pathogenicity island  c-abl tyrosine kinase  and interaction with p63 isoforms control the activity of p73. conclusion our findings implicate p73 in h pylori-induced apoptosis and more generally suggest that the p53 family may play a role in the epithelial cell response to h pylori infection.
4115,continuous glucose monitoring in pregnant women with type 1 diabetes (conceptt): a multicentre international randomised controlled trial,background pregnant women with type 1 diabetes are a high-risk population who are recommended to strive for optimal glucose control  but neonatal outcomes attributed to maternal hyperglycaemia remain suboptimal. our aim was to examine the effectiveness of continuous glucose monitoring (cgm) on maternal glucose control and obstetric and neonatal health outcomes. methods in this multicentre  open-label  randomised controlled trial  we recruited women aged 18-40 years with type 1 diabetes for a minimum of 12 months who were receiving intensive insulin therapy. participants were pregnant (≤13 weeks and 6 days' gestation) or planning pregnancy from 31 hospitals in canada  england  scotland  spain  italy  ireland  and the usa. we ran two trials in parallel for pregnant participants and for participants planning pregnancy. in both trials  participants were randomly assigned to either cgm in addition to capillary glucose monitoring or capillary glucose monitoring alone. randomisation was stratified by insulin delivery (pump or injections) and baseline glycated haemoglobin (hba1c). the primary outcome was change in hba1c from randomisation to 34 weeks' gestation in pregnant women and to 24 weeks or conception in women planning pregnancy  and was assessed in all randomised participants with baseline assessments. secondary outcomes included obstetric and neonatal health outcomes  assessed with all available data without imputation. this trial is registered with clinicaltrials.gov  number nct01788527. findings between march 25  2013  and march 22  2016  we randomly assigned 325 women (215 pregnant  110 planning pregnancy) to capillary glucose monitoring with cgm (108 pregnant and 53 planning pregnancy) or without (107 pregnant and 57 planning pregnancy). we found a small difference in hba1c in pregnant women using cgm (mean difference -0·19%; 95% ci -0·34 to -0·03; p=0·0207). pregnant cgm users spent more time in target (68% vs 61%; p=0·0034) and less time hyperglycaemic (27% vs 32%; p=0·0279) than did pregnant control participants  with comparable severe hypoglycaemia episodes (18 cgm and 21 control) and time spent hypoglycaemic (3% vs 4%; p=0·10). neonatal health outcomes were significantly improved  with lower incidence of large for gestational age (odds ratio 0·51  95% ci 0·28 to 0·90; p=0·0210)  fewer neonatal intensive care admissions lasting more than 24 h (0·48; 0·26 to 0·86; p=0·0157)  fewer incidences of neonatal hypoglycaemia (0·45; 0·22 to 0·89; p=0·0250)  and 1-day shorter length of hospital stay (p=0·0091). we found no apparent benefit of cgm in women planning pregnancy. adverse events occurred in 51 (48%) of cgm participants and 43 (40%) of control participants in the pregnancy trial  and in 12 (27%) of cgm participants and 21 (37%) of control participants in the planning pregnancy trial. serious adverse events occurred in 13 (6%) participants in the pregnancy trial (eight [7%] cgm  five [5%] control) and in three (3%) participants in the planning pregnancy trial (two [4%] cgm and one [2%] control). the most common adverse events were skin reactions occurring in 49 (48%) of 103 cgm participants and eight (8%) of 104 control participants during pregnancy and in 23 (44%) of 52 cgm participants and five (9%) of 57 control participants in the planning pregnancy trial. the most common serious adverse events were gastrointestinal (nausea and vomiting in four participants during pregnancy and three participants planning pregnancy). interpretation use of cgm during pregnancy in patients with type 1 diabetes is associated with improved neonatal outcomes  which are likely to be attributed to reduced exposure to maternal hyperglycaemia. cgm should be offered to all pregnant women with type 1 diabetes using intensive insulin therapy. this study is the first to indicate potential for improvements in non-glycaemic health outcomes from cgm use. funding juvenile diabetes research foundation  canadian clinical trials network  and national institute for health research.
4117,phosphorylation of p35 and p39 by cdk5 determines the subcellular location of the holokinase in a phosphorylation-site-specific manner.,cdk5 is a member of the cyclin-dependent kinase (cdk) family  which is activated by neuronal activators p35 or p39. cdk5 regulates a variety of neuronal activities including migration  synaptic activity and neuronal death. p35 and p39 impart cytoplasmic membrane association of p35-cdk5 and p39-cdk5  respectively  through their myristoylation  but it is not clearly understood how the cellular localization is related to different functions. we investigated the role of cdk5 activity in the subcellular localization of p35-cdk5 and p39-cdk5. cdk5 activity affected the localization of p35-cdk5 and p39-cdk5 through phosphorylation of p35 or p39. using unphosphorylated or phosphomimetic mutants of p35 and p39  we found that phosphorylation at ser8  common to p35 and p39  by cdk5 regulated the cytoplasmic localization and perinuclear accumulation of unphosphorylated s8a mutants  and whole cytoplasmic distribution of phosphomimetic s8e mutants. cdk5 activity was necessary to retain cdk5-activator complexes in the cytoplasm. nevertheless  small but distinct amounts of p35 and p39 were detected in the nucleus. in particular  nuclear p35 and p39 were increased when the cdk5 activity was inhibited. p39 had a greater propensity to accumulate in the nucleus than p35  and phosphorylation at thr84  specific to p39  regulated the potential nuclear localization activity of the lys cluster in p39. these results suggest that the subcellular localization of the cdk5-activator complexes is determined by its kinase activity  and also implicate a role for p39-cdk5 in the nucleus.
4119,transcriptional regulation of neuronal genes and its effect on neural functions: expression and function of forkhead transcription factors in neurons.,forkhead box transcription factor  class o (foxo) is a mammalian homologue of daf-16  which is known to regulate the lifespan of caenorhabditis elegans and includes subfamilies of forkhead transcription factors such as afx  fkhrl1  and fkhr. fkhr is phosphorylated on three sites (thr-24  ser-256  and ser-319) in a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (pi3k)/akt-dependent manner  thereby inhibiting death signals. we here documented dephosphorylation of fkhr following transient forebrain ischemia with its concomitant translocation into the nucleus in neurons in gerbil and mouse brains. the activation of fkhr preceded delayed neuronal death in the vulnerable hippocampal regions following ischemic brain injury. the fkhr activation was accompanied by an increase in dna binding activity for fkhr-responsive element on the fas ligand promoter. we also defined fkhr-induced downstream targets such as fas ligand and bim in brain ischemia. therefore  we propose a new strategy to rescue neurons from delayed neuronal death by promoting the survival signaling. sodium orthovanadate  a protein tyrosine phosphatase inhibitor  up-regulated akt activity in the brain and in turn rescue neurons from delayed neuronal death by inhibiting fkhr-dependent or -independent death signals in neurons.
4121,estimates of animal and plant protein intake in us adults: results from the third national health and nutrition examination survey  1988-1991.,objective to describe the sources of protein intake in a sample of the us adult population and among subgroups defined by race-ethnicity  age  and gender. design the third national health and nutrition examination survey  1988-1991  is a stratified random sample of the total civilian noninstitutionalized population  drawn from the 50 united states and the district of columbia. for all foods consumed by the participants  based on a 24-hour dietary recall  protein sources and the contribution of each protein type to the total protein intake were determined. subjects adult participants in the third national health and nutrition examination survey (n = 7 924). statistical analyses weighted total  age-specific  and age-adjusted mean protein intakes were calculated using sas and wesvarpc. statistical differences were determined by 2-tailed t tests. results the main protein source in the american diet is animal protein (69%). meat  fish  and poultry protein combined contributed the most to animal protein (42%)  followed by dairy protein (20%). grains (18%) contributed the most to plant protein consumption. women consumed a lower percentage of beef (14%) and pork (7%) protein than did men (18% and 9%  respectively). women also consumed a higher percentage of poultry (13%)  dairy (22%)  and fruit and vegetable (11%) protein than did men (11%  19%  and 9%  respectively). blacks reported eating a higher percentage of poultry (18%) and pork (11%) protein and a lower percent of dairy protein (14%) than did whites (12%  7%  and 22%  respectively) and mexican-americans (11%  8%  and 17%  respectively). mexican-americans consumed a higher percentage of legume (7%) and egg (7%) protein than did whites (4% and 4%  respectively) and blacks (4% and 5%  respectively). whites consumed a higher percentage of grain protein (19%) than did blacks (16%) and mexican-americans (15%). conclusions these results show that  although the percentage of total energy from protein may be similar among race-ethnicities and between men and women  their sources of protein are different. these differences should be taken into account when providing nutrition education for specific populations.
4123,the sialyltransferase st3gal6 influences homing and survival in multiple myeloma.,glycosylation is a stepwise procedure of covalent attachment of oligosaccharide chains to proteins or lipids  and alterations in this process  especially increased sialylation  have been associated with malignant transformation and metastasis. the role of altered sialylation in multiple myeloma (mm) cell trafficking has not been previously investigated. in the present study we identified high expression of β-galactoside α-2 3-sialyltransferase  st3gal6  in mm cell lines and patients. this gene plays a key role in selectin ligand synthesis in humans through the generation of functional sialyl lewis x. in mrc ix patients  high expression of this gene is associated with inferior overall survival. in this study we demonstrate that knockdown of st3gal6 results in a significant reduction in levels of α-2 3-linked sialic acid on the surface of mm cells with an associated significant reduction in adhesion to mm bone marrow stromal cells and fibronectin along with reduced transendothelial migration in vitro. in support of our in vitro findings  we demonstrate significantly reduced homing and engraftment of st3gal6 knockdown mm cells to the bone marrow niche in vivo  along with decreased tumor burden and prolonged survival. this study points to the importance of altered glycosylation  particularly sialylation  in mm cell adhesion and migration.
4125,behavioral effects of estrogen receptor gene disruption in male mice.,gonadal steroid hormones regulate sexually dimorphic development of brain functions and behaviors. their nuclear receptors offer the opportunity to relate molecular events in neurons to simple instinctive mammalian behaviors. we have determined the role of estrogen receptor (er) activation by endogenous estrogen in the development of male-typical behaviors by the use of transgenic estrogen-receptor-deficient (erko) mice. surprisingly  in spite of the fact that they are infertile  erko mice showed normal motivation to mount females but they achieved less intromissions and virtually no ejaculations. aggressive behaviors were dramatically reduced and male-typical offensive attacks were rarely displayed by erko males. moreover  er gene disruption demasculinized open-field behaviors. in the brain  despite the evident loss of functional er protein  the androgen-dependent system appears to be normally present in erko mice. together  these findings indicate that er gene expression during development plays a major role in the organization of male-typical aggressive and emotional behaviors in addition to simple sexual behaviors.
4127,hypoxia of the renal medulla--its implications for disease.,in land mammals  a major task of the kidney is to reabsorb water to allow survival in a dry environment. water conservation is enhanced by the renal medulla  which concentrates the urine to a level up to four times the osmolality of plasma. to produce this unique gradient of osmolality  the medulla has a countercurrent system of vessels and tubules that dictates active reabsorption of sodium in a milieu poor in oxygen (figure 1).1 in this review  we describe how hypoxia of the medulla may relate to susceptibility to acute and chronic renal injury. the renal medullary concentrating mechanism as . . .
4129,evolution and function of ubiquitin-like protein-conjugation systems,ubiquitin functions by covalently modifying other proteins. in the past few years  a surprising number of other proteins have been identified that  despite often being only slightly similar to ubiquitin  can also be attached to proteins. newly discovered parallels between the activation of ubiquitin and the biosynthesis of certain enzyme cofactors now hint at the possible evolutionary origins of the ubiquitin system.
4131,gene supplementation therapy for recessive forms of inherited retinal dystrophies,over the last decade  gene supplementation therapy for inherited retinal degeneration has come of age. early proof-of-concept studies in animal models of disease showed modest  but genuine improvements in retinal function and/or survival. further development of the vectors used for gene transfer to the retina has led to better treatment efficacy in a wide variety of animal models  leading in 2008 to the initiation of three clinical trials for leber congenital amaurosis caused by retinal pigment epithelium 65 deficiency. the results from these trials suggest that the treatment of inherited retinal dystrophy by gene therapy can be safe and effective. here  we examine the progress of gene supplementation therapy in the retina  and discuss the potential for using gene therapy to treat different forms of inherited retinal degeneration.
4133,reprogramming somatic cells towards pluripotency by cellular fusion.,pluripotent cells arise within the inner cell mass (icm) of mammals and have the potential to generate all cell types of the adult organism through a process of commitment and ordered differentiation. despite many decades of investigation  the mechanisms that guide and stabilise cell fate choice as well as those that can be engineered to promote its reversal  remain only partially resolved. reprogramming of somatic cells towards a pluripotent-like state can be achieved by several different experimental routes including nuclear transfer  the supply of a defined cocktail of transcription factors  or by fusing somatic cells with a pluripotent stem cell partner. these approaches have been used to demonstrate the remarkable intrinsic epigenetic plasticity of many terminally differentiated cell types  as well as to define the factors that are required for pluripotent conversion. in this review we summarise some recent advances using cell fusion-based studies to better understand the basis of pluripotency and the epigenetic mechanisms that promote cell type inter-conversion.
4135,b-catenin deficiency  but not myc deletion  suppresses the immediate phenotypes of apc loss in the liver.,dysregulated wnt signaling is seen in approximately 30% of hepatocellular carcinomas; thus  finding pathways downstream of the activation of wnt signaling is key. here  using cre-lox technology  we deleted the apc gene in the adult mouse liver and observed a rapid increase in nuclear beta-catenin and c-myc  which is associated with an induction of proliferation that led to hepatomegaly within 4 days of gene deletion. to investigate the downstream pathways responsible for these phenotypes  we analyzed the impact of inactivating apc in the context of deficiency of the potentially key effectors beta-catenin and c-myc. beta-catenin loss rescues both the proliferation and hepatomegaly phenotypes after apc loss. however  c-myc deletion  which rescues the phenotypes of apc loss in the intestine  had no effect on the phenotypes of apc loss in the liver. the consequences of the deregulation of the wnt pathway within the liver are therefore strikingly different from those observed within the intestine  with the vast majority of wnt targets being beta-catenin-dependent but c-myc-independent in the liver.
4137,a functional polymorphism in the prodynorphin gene promotor is associated with temporal lobe epilepsy.,the prodynorphin gene (pdyn) encoding the anticonvulsant peptide dynorphin is a strong candidate for a seizure suppressor gene and thus a possible modulator of susceptibility to temporal lobe epilepsy. we performed a case control association study in 155 patients with nonlesional temporal lobe epilepsy and 202 controls and found that pdyn promotor low-expression l-alleles confer an increased risk for temporal lobe epilepsy in patients with a family history for seizures. irrespective of the familial background  l-homozygotes display a higher risk for secondarily generalized seizures and status epilepticus.
4139,nonuniform probability of glutamate release at a hippocampal synapse.,a change in the probability of neurotransmitter release (pr) is an important mechanism underlying synaptic plasticity. although pr is often assumed to be the same for all terminals at a single synapse  this assumption is difficult to reconcile with the nonuniform size and structure of synaptic terminals in the central nervous system. release probability was measured at excitatory synapses on cultured hippocampal neurons by analysis of the progressive block of n-methyl-d-aspartate receptor-mediated synaptic currents by the irreversible open channel blocker mk-801. release probability was nonuniform (range of 0.09 to 0.54) for terminals arising from a single axon  the majority of which had a low pr. however  terminals with high pr are more likely to be affected by the activity-dependent modulation that occurs in long-term potentiation.
4141,nua4 lysine acetyltransferase esa1 is targeted to coding regions and stimulates transcription elongation with gcn5.,nua4  the major h4 lysine acetyltransferase (kat) complex in saccharomyces cerevisiae  is recruited to promoters and stimulates transcription initiation. nua4 subunits contain domains that bind methylated histones  suggesting that histone methylation should target nua4 to coding sequences during transcription elongation. we show that nua4 is cotranscriptionally recruited  dependent on its physical association with elongating polymerase ii (pol ii) phosphorylated on the c-terminal domain by cyclin-dependent kinase 7/kin28  but independently of subunits (eaf1 and tra1) required for nua4 recruitment to promoters. whereas histone methylation by set1 and set2 is dispensable for nua4's interaction with pol ii and targeting to some coding regions  it stimulates nua4-histone interaction and h4 acetylation in vivo. the nua4 kat  esa1  mediates increased h4 acetylation and enhanced rsc occupancy and histone eviction in coding sequences and stimulates the rate of transcription elongation. esa1 cooperates with the h3 kat in saga  gcn5  to enhance these functions. our findings delineate a pathway for acetylation-mediated nucleosome remodeling and eviction in coding sequences that stimulates transcription elongation by pol ii in vivo.
4143,drugbank 5.0: a major update to the drugbank database for 2018,drugbank (www.drugbank.ca) is a web-enabled database containing comprehensive molecular information about drugs  their mechanisms  their interactions and their targets. first described in 2006  drugbank has continued to evolve over the past 12 years in response to marked improvements to web standards and changing needs for drug research and development. this year's update  drugbank 5.0  represents the most significant upgrade to the database in more than 10 years. in many cases  existing data content has grown by 100% or more over the last update. for instance  the total number of investigational drugs in the database has grown by almost 300%  the number of drug-drug interactions has grown by nearly 600% and the number of snp-associated drug effects has grown more than 3000%. significant improvements have been made to the quantity  quality and consistency of drug indications  drug binding data as well as drug-drug and drug-food interactions. a great deal of brand new data have also been added to drugbank 5.0. this includes information on the influence of hundreds of drugs on metabolite levels (pharmacometabolomics)  gene expression levels (pharmacotranscriptomics) and protein expression levels (pharmacoprotoemics). new data have also been added on the status of hundreds of new drug clinical trials and existing drug repurposing trials. many other important improvements in the content  interface and performance of the drugbank website have been made and these should greatly enhance its ease of use  utility and potential applications in many areas of pharmacological research  pharmaceutical science and drug education.
4145,new roles for pharmacists in community mental health care: a narrative review,medicines are a major treatment modality for many mental illnesses  and with the growing burden of mental disorders worldwide pharmacists are ideally positioned to play a greater role in supporting people with a mental illness. this narrative review aims to describe the evidence for pharmacist-delivered services in mental health care and address the barriers and facilitators to increasing the uptake of pharmacist services as part of the broader mental health care team. this narrative review is divided into three main sections: (1) the role of the pharmacist in mental health care in multidisciplinary teams and in supporting early detection of mental illness; (2) the pharmacists' role in supporting quality use of medicines in medication review  strategies to improve medication adherence and antipsychotic polypharmacy  and shared decision making; and (3) barriers and facilitators to the implementation of mental health pharmacy services with a focus on organizational culture and mental health stigma. in the first section  the review presents new roles for pharmacists within multidisciplinary teams  such as in case conferencing or collaborative drug therapy management; and new roles that would benefit from increased pharmacist involvement  such as the early detection of mental health conditions  development of care plans and follow up of people with mental health problems. the second section describes the impact of medication review services and other pharmacist-led interventions designed to reduce inappropriate use of psychotropic medicines and improve medication adherence. other new potential roles discussed include the management of antipsychotic polypharmacy and involvement in patient-centered care. finally  barriers related to pharmacists' attitudes  stigma and skills in the care of patients with mental health problems and barriers affecting pharmacist-physician collaboration are described  along with strategies to reduce mental health stigma.
4147,p446l-importin-beta inhibits nuclear envelope assembly by sequestering nuclear envelope assembly factors to the microtubules.,the p446l mutant drosophila importin-beta (p446l-imp-beta) has been reported to prohibit--in dominant negative fashion--nuclear envelope (ne) assembly. along elucidating the mode of action of p446l-imp-beta we studied in vitro ne assembly on sepharose beads. while drosophila embryo extracts support ne assembly over sepharose beads coated with ran  ne assembly does not take place in extracts supplied with exogenous p446l-imp-beta. a ne also forms over importin-beta-coated beads. surprisingly  when immobilized to sepharose beads p446l-imp-beta as efficiently recruits ne vesicles as normal importin-beta. the discrepancy in behavior of cytoplasmic and bead-bound p446l-imp-beta appears to be related to icreased--as compared to normal importin-beta--microtubule (mt) binding ability of p446l-imp-beta. while wild-type importin-beta is able to bind mts and the binding decreases upon rangtp interaction  p446l-imp-beta cannot be removed from the mts by rangtp. p446l-imp-beta  like normal importin-beta  binds some types of the nucleoporins that have been known to be required for ne assembly at the end of mitosis. it appears that the inhibitory effect of p446l-imp-beta on ne assembly is caused by sequestering some of the nucleoporins required for ne assembly to the mts.
4149,intestinal methane production in obese individuals is associated with a higher body mass index.,background obesity is an epidemic that affects 1 in 3 individuals in the united states  and recent evidence suggests that enteric microbiota may play a significant role in the development of obesity. this study evaluated the association between methanogenic archaea and obesity in human subjects. methods subjects with a body mass index (bmi) of 30 kg/m² or higher were prospectively recruited from the weight loss program of a tertiary care medical center. subjects who met the study's inclusion criteria were asked to complete a questionnaire that included a series of visual analogue scores for bowel symptom severities. subjects then provided a single end-expiratory breath sample to quantitate methane levels. bivariate and multivariate analyses were used to determine associations with bmi. results a total of 58 patients qualified for enrollment. twenty percent of patients (n = 12) had breath test results that were positive for methane (>3 parts per million [ppm])  with a mean breath methane concentration of 12.2±3.1 ppm. bmi was significantly higher in methane-positive subjects (45.2±2.3 kg/m²) than in methane-negative subjects (38.5±0.8 kg/m²; p=.001). methane-positive subjects also had a greater severity of constipation than methane-negative subjects (21.3±6.4 vs 9.5±2.4; p=.043). multiple regression analysis illustrated a significant association between bmi and methane  constipation  and antidepressant use. however  methane remained an independent predictor of elevated bmi when controlling for antidepressant use (p<.001) and when controlling for both constipation and antidepressant use (6.55 kg/m² greater bmi; p=.003). conclusion this is the first human study to demonstrate that a higher concentration of methane detected by breath testing is a predictor of significantly greater obesity in overweight subjects.
4151,venous thrombosis in cancer patients: insights from the frontline survey.,background venous thromboembolism (vte) is a common complication in cancer patients and a significant cause of morbidity and mortality. however  little information is available on oncologists' perceptions of the risk of vte and its management. the fundamental research in oncology and thrombosis (frontline) study is the first comprehensive global survey of thrombosis and cancer. the study was designed to collect data on the perceived risk and patterns of practice with regard to vte in cancer patients undergoing surgical and medical management of their malignancy and to provide information on international and regional practice patterns  allowing for the design of research studies to answer the concerns of practicing clinicians. methods literature reviews were performed to provide a current evidence base against which to compare the findings  and a survey was developed under the guidance of an advisory board. a paper-based reply-paid questionnaire was distributed globally between july and november 2001 to clinicians involved in cancer care and was made available on a dedicated website. findings a total of 3 891 completed responses were available for analysis. brain and pancreatic tumors were considered to carry a high risk for vte  and 80% of respondents considered the use of central venous lines to be associated with a high risk of vte. marked differences were seen in the use of thromboprophylaxis for surgical and medical cancer patients  with over 50% of surgeons reporting that they initiated thromboprophylaxis routinely  while most medical oncologists reported using thromboprophylaxis in less than 5% of medical patients. low molecular weight heparin (lmwh) was the most popular method of thromboprophylaxis employed in both surgical and medical patients and was more favored by european than u.s. clinicians. some 20% of respondents reported using aspirin for prophylaxis  despite there being no reliable evidence for this agent as effective in prevention in this population. for the treatment of vte  lmwh was again the most common initial treatment  although  for the long-term  oral anticoagulation therapy was widely adopted. many patients were treated for vte on an outpatient basis  and secondary prevention of vte was typically continued for 3 to 6 months after an episode of deep vein thrombosis or for longer in the case of pulmonary embolism. interpretation the results of the frontline survey demonstrate a need for guidelines to direct clinical practice in line with evidence-based data concerning cancer and vte. oncologists need to be educated regarding the true risks of vte associated with certain cancers and on strategies for prevention and treatment to reduce the morbidity and mortality associated with vte in all cancer patients. the study has also helped identify areas for future research.
4153,antibodies from patients with rheumatoid arthritis target citrullinated histone 4 contained in neutrophils extracellular traps.,background histone deimination regulates gene function and contributes to antimicrobial response  allowing the formation of neutrophil extracellular traps (nets). deiminated proteins are target of anti-citrullinated peptides antibodies (acpa) in rheumatoid arthritis (ra). objective the objective of this paper is to test the hypothesis that ra sera react with deiminated histones contained in nets. methods neutrophils from peripheral blood were stimulated with a23187 and acid treated; netosis was induced by phorbol myristate acetate  and net proteins were isolated. sera were tested by immunoblot on acid extracted proteins from neutrophils and from nets  and by elisa on deiminated histone h4 or h4-derived peptides. bands reactive with ra sera were excised from gels  digested with trypsin and subjected to matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionisation time of flight (maldi-tof) analysis  before and after derivatisation to detect citrullinated peptides. results ra sera reacted with a deiminated antigen of 11 kda from activated neutrophils  recognised also by anti-h4 and antideiminated h4 antibodies. a similar reactivity was observed with net proteins. the antigen from neutrophils or nets was identified as citrullinated h4 by maldi-tof analysis. by elisa  ra sera bound in vitro citrullinated h4. citrullinated h4 14-34 and 31-50 peptides detected antibodies in 67% and 63% of ra sera and in less than 5% of controls; antibody titre was correlated with anti-ccp2. conclusions citrullinated h4 from activated neutrophils and nets is a target of antibodies in ra  and synthetic citrullinated h4-derived peptides are a new substrate for acpa detection. as netosis can generate antigens for acpa  these data suggest a novel connection between innate and adaptive immunity in ra.
4155,improved prognosis of thoracic aortic aneurysms: a population-based study.,context managing thoracic aortic aneurysms identified incidentally by increased use of computed tomography  echocardiography  and magnetic resonance imaging is problematic  especially in the elderly. objective to ascertain whether the previously reported poor prognosis for individuals with thoracic aortic aneurysms has changed with better medical therapies and improved surgical techniques that can now be applied to aneurysm management. design population-based cohort study. setting and patients all 133 patients with the diagnosis of degenerative thoracic aortic aneurysms among olmsted county  minnesota  residents between 1980 and 1994 compared with a previously reported cohort of similar patients between 1951 and 1980. main outcome measures the primary clinical end points were incidence  cumulative rupture risk  rupture risk as a function of aneurysm size  and survival. results in contrast to abdominal aortic aneurysms  for which men are affected predominately  51% of thoracic aortic aneurysms were identified in women who were considerably older at recognition than men (mean age  75.9 vs 62.8 years  respectively; p= .01). the overall incidence rate of 10.4 per 100000 person-years (95% confidence interval [ci]  8.6-12.2) between 1980 and 1994 was more than 3-fold higher than the rate from 1951 to 1980. the cumulative risk of rupture was 20% after 5 years. seventy-nine percent of ruptures occurred in women (p= .01). the 5-year risk of rupture as a function of aneurysm size at recognition was 0% for aneurysms less than 4 cm in diameter  16% (95% ci  4%-28%) for those 4 to 5.9 cm  and 31% (95% ci  5%-56%) for aneurysms 6 cm or more. overall 5-year survival improved to 56% (95% ci  48%-66%) between 1980 and 1994 compared with only 19% between 1951 and 1980 (p<.01). conclusions in this population  elderly women represent an increasing portion of all patients with clinically recognized thoracic aortic aneurysms and constitute the majority of patients whose aneurysm eventually ruptures. overall survival for thoracic aortic aneurysms has improved significantly in the past 15 years.
4157,interplays between atm/tel1 and atr/mec1 in sensing and signaling dna double-strand breaks.,dna double-strand breaks (dsbs) are highly hazardous for genome integrity because they have the potential to cause mutations  chromosomal rearrangements and genomic instability. the cellular response to dsbs is orchestrated by signal transduction pathways  known as dna damage checkpoints  which are conserved from yeasts to humans. these pathways can sense dna damage and transduce this information to specific cellular targets  which in turn regulate cell cycle transitions and dna repair. the mammalian protein kinases atm and atr  as well as their budding yeast corresponding orthologs tel1 and mec1  act as master regulators of the checkpoint response to dsbs. here  we review the early steps of dsb processing and the role of dna-end structures in activating atm/tel1 and atr/mec1 in an orderly and reciprocal manner.
4159,steroid receptor interactions with heat shock protein and immunophilin chaperones.,we have provided a historical perspective on a body of steroid receptor research dealing with the structure and physiological significance of the untransformed 9s receptor that has often confused both novice and expert investigators. the frequent controversies and equivocations of earlier studies were due to the fact that the native  hormone-free state of these receptors is a large multiprotein complex that resisted description for many years because of its unstable and dynamic nature. the untransformed 9s state of the steroid and dioxin receptors has provided a unique system for studying the function of the ubiquitous  abundant  and conserved heat shock protein  hsp90. the hormonal control of receptor association with hsp90 provided a method of manipulating the receptor heterocomplex in a manner that was physiologically meaningful. for several steroid receptors  binding to hsp90 was required for the receptor to be in a native hormone-binding state  and for all of the receptors  hormone binding promoted dissociation of the receptor from hsp90 and conversion of the receptor to the dna-binding state. although the complexes between tyrosine kinases and hsp90 were discovered earlier  the hormonal regulation or steroid receptor association with hsp90 permitted much more rapid and facile study of hsp90 function. the observations that hsp90 binds to the receptors through their hbds and that these domains can be fused to structurally different proteins bringing their function under hormonal control provided a powerful linkage between the hormonal regulation of receptor binding to hsp90 and the initial step in steroid hormone action. because the 9s receptor hsp90 heterocomplexes could be physically stabilized by molybdate  their protein composition could be readily studied  and it became clear that these complexes are multiprotein structures containing a number of unique proteins  such as fkbp51  fkbp52  cyp-40  and p23  that were discovered because of their presence in these structures. further analysis showed that hsp90 itself exists in a variety of native multiprotein heterocomplexes independent of steroid receptors and other 'substrate' proteins. cell-free systems can now be used to study the formation of receptor heterocomplexes. as we outlined in the scheme of fig. 1  the multicomponent receptor-hsp90 heterocomplex assembly system is being reconstituted  and the importance of individual proteins  such as hsp70  p60  and p23  in the assembly process is becoming recognized. it should be noted that our understanding of the mechanism and purpose of steroid receptor heterocomplex assembly is still at an early stage. we can now speculate on the roles of receptor-associated proteins in receptor action  both as individuals and as a group  but their actual functions are still vague or unknown. we can make realistic models about the chaperoning and trafficking of steroid receptors  but we don't yet know how these processes occur  we don't know where chaperoning occurs in the cell (e.g. is it limited to the cytoplasm? is it a diffuse process or does chaperoning occur in association with structural elements?)  and  with the exception of the requirement for hormone binding  we don't know the extent to which the hsp90-based chaperone system impacts on steroid hormone action. it is not yet clear how far the discovery of this hsp90 heterocomplex assembly system will be extended to the development of a general understanding of protein processing in the cell. because this assembly system is apparently present in all eukaryotic cells  it probably performs an essential function for many proteins. the bacterial homolog of hsp90 is not an essential protein  but hsp90 is essential in eukaryotes  and recent studies indicate that the development of the cell nucleus from prokaryotic progenitors was accompanied by the duplication of genes for hsp90 and hsp70 (698). (abstract truncated)
4161,up-regulation of neuronal calcium sensor-1 (ncs-1) in the prefrontal cortex of schizophrenic and bipolar patients.,the delineation of dopamine dysfunction in the mentally ill has been a long-standing quest of biological psychiatry. the present study focuses on a recently recognized group of dopamine receptor-interacting proteins as possible novel sites of dysfunction in schizophrenic and bipolar patients. we demonstrate that the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex in schizophrenia and bipolar cases from the stanley foundation neuropathology consortium display significantly elevated levels of the d2 dopamine receptor desensitization regulatory protein  neuronal calcium sensor-1. these levels of neuronal calcium sensor-1 were not influenced by age  gender  hemisphere  cause of death  postmortem period  alcohol consumption  or antipsychotic and mood stabilizing medications. the present study supports the hypothesis that schizophrenia and bipolar disorder may be associated with abnormalities in dopamine receptor-interacting proteins.
4163,cancer survival increases in europe  but international differences remain wide.,the eurocare project analysed cancer survival data from 45 population-based cancer registries in 17 european countries  revealing wide international differences in cancer survival. we calculated 5-year relative survival for 1836287 patients diagnosed with one of 13 cancers during the period 1978-1989. the data  from 20 cancer registries in 13 countries  were grouped into four regions: finland  sweden  iceland (northern europe); denmark  england and scotland (uk and denmark); france  the netherlands  germany  italy and switzerland (western europe); estonia and poland (eastern europe)  and broken down into four periods (1978-1980  1981-1983  1984-1986  1987-1989). for each cancer  mean european and regional survival was estimated as the weighted mean of 5-year relative survival in each country. survival increased with time for all tumours  particularly for cancers of testis (12% increase  i.e. from 79.9 to 91.9%)  breast  large bowel  skin melanoma (approximately 9-10%)  and lymphomas (approximately 7%). for most solid tumours  survival was highest in northern europe and lowest in eastern europe  and also low in the uk and denmark. regional variation was less marked for the lymphomas. survival improved more in western than northern europe  and the differences between these regions fell for bowel cancer (from 8.0% for those diagnosed in 1978-1980 to 2% for those diagnosed in 1987-1989)  breast cancer (from 7.4% to 3.9%)  skin melanoma (from 13.4% to 11.0%) and hodgkin's disease (from 7.2 to 0.6%). for potentially curable malignancies such as hodgkin's disease  large bowel  breast and testicular cancers  there were substantial increases in survival  suggesting an earlier diagnosis and more effective treatment. the persisting regional differences suggest there are corresponding differences in the availability of diagnostic and therapeutic facilities  and in the effectiveness of healthcare systems.
4165,swaddling: a systematic review.,swaddling was an almost universal child-care practice before the 18th century. it is still tradition in certain parts of the middle east and is gaining popularity in the united kingdom  the united states  and the netherlands to curb excessive crying. we have systematically reviewed all articles on swaddling to evaluate its possible benefits and disadvantages. in general  swaddled infants arouse less and sleep longer. preterm infants have shown improved neuromuscular development  less physiologic distress  better motor organization  and more self-regulatory ability when they are swaddled. when compared with massage  excessively crying infants cried less when swaddled  and swaddling can soothe pain in infants. it is supportive in cases of neonatal abstinence syndrome and infants with neonatal cerebral lesions. it can be helpful in regulating temperature but can also cause hyperthermia when misapplied. another possible adverse effect is an increased risk of the development of hip dysplasia  which is related to swaddling with the legs in extension and adduction. although swaddling promotes the favorable supine position  the combination of swaddling with prone position increases the risk of sudden infant death syndrome  which makes it necessary to warn parents to stop swaddling if infants attempt to turn. there is some evidence that there is a higher risk of respiratory infections related to the tightness of swaddling. furthermore  swaddling does not influence rickets onset or bone properties. swaddling immediately after birth can cause delayed postnatal weight gain under certain conditions  but does not seem to influence breastfeeding parameters.
4167,control of nfat isoform activation and nfat-dependent gene expression through two coincident and spatially segregated intracellular ca2+ signals,excitation-transcription coupling  linking stimulation at the cell surface to changes in nuclear gene expression  is conserved throughout eukaryotes. how closely related coexpressed transcription factors are differentially activated remains unclear. here  we show that two ca2+-dependent transcription factor isoforms  nfat1 and nfat4  require distinct sub-cellular insp3 and ca2+ signals for physiologically sustained activation. nfat1 is stimulated by sub-plasmalemmal ca2+ microdomains  whereas nfat4 additionally requires ca2+ mobilization from the inner nuclear envelope by nuclear insp3 receptors. nfat1 is rephosphorylated (deactivated) more slowly than nfat4 in both cytoplasm and nucleus  enabling a more prolonged activation phase. oscillations in cytoplasmic ca2+  long considered the physiological form of ca2+ signaling  play no role in activating either nfat protein. instead  effective sustained physiological activation of nfat4 is tightly linked to oscillations in nuclear ca2+. our results show how gene expression can be controlled by coincident yet geographically distinct ca2+ signals  generated by a freely diffusible insp3 message.
4169,atm and ataxia telangiectasia.,ataxia telangiectasia (at) has long intrigued the biomedical research community owing to the spectrum of defects that are characteristic of the disease  including neurodegeneration  immune dysfunction  radiosensitivity and cancer predisposition. following the identification of mutations in atm (ataxia telangiectasia  mutated) as the underlying cause of the disease  biochemical analysis of this protein kinase has shown that it is a crucial nexus for the cellular response to dna double-stranded breaks. many atm kinase substrates are important players in the cellular responses that prevent cancer. accordingly  at is a disease that results from defects in the response to specific types of dna damage. thus  although it is a rare neurodegenerative disease  understanding the biology of at will lead to a greater understanding of the fundamental processes that underpin cancer and neurodegeneration.
4171,comparison of the intrinsic kinase activity and substrate specificity of c-abl and bcr-abl.,we studied the intrinsic tyrosine kinase activity and substrate specificity of c-abl and bcr-abl protein tyrosine kinases (ptks) using the peptide substrates discovered from a synthetic combinatorial peptide library. our data indicate that the phosphorylation of these peptides by bcr-abl was consistently stronger than that by c-abl. bcr-abl also showed substrate preference towards those peptides with one or more positive charges.
4173,hepatitis c virus blocks interferon effector function by inducing protein kinase r phosphorylation.,hepatitis c virus (hcv) is a single-stranded rna virus encoding a single polyprotein whose translation is driven by an internal ribosome entry site (ires). hcv infection strongly induces antiviral interferon-stimulated gene (isg) expression in the liver  yet it persists  suggesting that hcv can block isg effector function. we now show that hcv infection triggers phosphorylation and activation of the rna-dependent protein kinase pkr  which inhibits eukaryotic translation initiation factor eif2 alpha and attenuates isg protein expression despite normal isg mrna induction. isg protein induction is restored and the antiviral effects of interferon are enhanced when pkr expression is suppressed in interferon-treated infected cells. whereas host protein translation  including antiviral isgs  is suppressed by activated pkr  hcv ires-dependent translation is not. these results suggest that the ability of hcv to activate pkr may  paradoxically  be advantageous for the virus during an ifn response by preferentially suppressing the translation of isgs.
4175,adult c-kit(+) progenitor cells are necessary for maintenance and regeneration of olfactory neurons.,the olfactory epithelium houses chemosensory neurons  which transmit odor information from the nose to the brain. in adult mammals  the olfactory epithelium is a uniquely robust neuroproliferative zone  with the ability to replenish its neuronal and non-neuronal populations due to the presence of germinal basal cells. the stem and progenitor cells of these germinal layers  and their regulatory mechanisms  remain incompletely defined. here we show that progenitor cells expressing c-kit  a receptor tyrosine kinase marking stem cells in a variety of embryonic tissues  are required for maintenance of the adult neuroepithelium. mouse genetic fate-mapping analyses show that embryonically  a c-kit(+) population contributes to olfactory neurogenesis. in adults under conditions of normal turnover  there is relatively sparse c-kit(+) progenitor cell (ckpc) activity. however  after experimentally induced neuroepithelial injury  ckpcs are activated such that they reconstitute the neuronal population. there are also occasional non-neuronal cells found to arise from ckpcs. moreover  the selective depletion of the ckpc population  utilizing temporally controlled targeted diphtheria toxin a expression  results in failure of neurogenesis after experimental injury. analysis of this model indicates that most ckpcs reside among the globose basal cell populations and act downstream of horizontal basal cells  which can serve as stem cells. identification of the requirement for olfactory c-kit-expressing progenitors in olfactory maintenance provides new insight into the mechanisms involved in adult olfactory neurogenesis. additionally  we define an important and previously unrecognized site of adult c-kit activity.
4177,detection of mycoplasmas in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis,amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (als) is a progressive degenerative  disease of the motor neurons and the cause is unknown. diverse factors such as  genetic defects  nutritional deficiencies  head trauma  environmental toxin   autoimmune responses and viral and bacterial infections are involved. mycoplasmas  have been implicated as causal agents of different illnesses in human. the  purpose of this study was to investigate the presence of mycoplasmas in  the bloodstream of patients with als. patients with als and healthy individuals  were included in the study. a blood sample was taken in tubes with or without  anticoagulant. mycoplasmas were detected by culture or direct pcr  and the  presence of antibodies igm and igg against lamps of these microorganisms by  western blot. cultures for aerobic facultative bacteria were also done. blood samples  from 13 patients and 44 healthy individuals were screened. all blood cultures  for non-fermentative mycoplasmas and aerobic facultative bacteria were  negative. cultures for fermentative mycoplasmas were considered positive after  identification of mycoplasmal dna by pcr. mycoplasma sp. was detected by culture or  direct pcr in 6/13 (46%) patients and in 4/44 (9%) of healthy individuals. m. fermentans was detected by pcr using  specific primers in six patients and in two healthy individuals. igm against  lamps of m. fermentans were detected  in 6/13 (46%) blood samples from patients and in 13/44 (30%) from healthy  individuals  while. igg was detected in 4/13 (31%) patients and in 3/44 (7%)  healthy individuals. the results of this study show that mycoplasmas cause a  systemic infection and could play a role in the origin or progression of the  als.
4179,an oct4-centered protein interaction network in embryonic stem cells,transcription factors  such as oct4  are critical for establishing and maintaining pluripotent cell identity. whereas the genomic locations of several pluripotency transcription factors have been reported  the spectrum of their interaction partners is underexplored. here  we use an improved affinity protocol to purify oct4-interacting proteins from mouse embryonic stem cells (escs). subsequent purification of oct4 partners sall4  tcfcp2l1  dax1  and esrrb resulted in an oct4 interactome of 166 proteins  including transcription factors and chromatin-modifying complexes with documented roles in self-renewal  but also many factors not previously associated with the esc network. we find that esrrb associated with the basal transcription machinery and also detect interactions between transcription factors and components of the tgf-beta  notch  and wnt signaling pathways. acute depletion of oct4 reduced binding of tcfcp2l1  dax1  and esrrb to several target genes. in conclusion  our purification protocol allowed us to bring greater definition to the circuitry controlling pluripotent cell identity.
4181,crystal structure  biochemical and cellular activities demonstrate separate functions of mth1 and mth2,deregulated redox metabolism in cancer leads to oxidative damage to cellular components including deoxyribonucleoside triphosphates (dntps). targeting dntp pool sanitizing enzymes  such as mth1  is a highly promising anticancer strategy. the mth2 protein  known as nudt15  is described as the second human homologue of bacterial mutt with 8-oxo-dgtpase activity. we present the first nudt15 crystal structure and demonstrate that nudt15 prefers other nucleotide substrates over 8-oxo-dgtp. key structural features are identified that explain different substrate preferences for nudt15 and mth1. we find that depletion of nudt15 has no effect on incorporation of 8-oxo-dgtp into dna and does not impact cancer cell survival in cell lines tested. nudt17 and nudt18 were also profiled and found to have far less activity than mth1 against oxidized nucleotides. we show that nudt15 is not a biologically relevant 8-oxo-dgtpase  and that mth1 is the most prominent sanitizer of the cellular dntp pool known to date.
4183,differential expression of bcl-2 in intestinal epithelia. correlation with attenuation of apoptosis in colonic crypts and the incidence of colonic neoplasia.,the cell-positional incidence of both spontaneous and damage-induced apoptosis of epithelial cells was assessed in longitudinal sections of the crypts of small intestine and colon of bdf1 mice. this was compared  using immunohistochemistry  with the pattern of expression of bcl-2  a suppressor of apoptosis. in the small intestine  apoptosis was maximal around cell position 4 from the base of the crypt; this closely corresponds to the position considered to contain the stem cells. in the colon  however  apoptosis was not confined to the area considered to harbour the stem cells (position 1 and 2). instead  apoptosis was attenuated and distributed along the length of the crypt. some cells at the base of murine colonic crypts expressed bcl-2 protein  whereas bcl-2 was absent in the crypts of the small intestine. most pertinently  bcl-2 was absent from small intestinal crypt cells at positions 4-5 (the stem cell region). the importance of the expression of bcl-2 to the attenuation of apoptosis in stem cells was confirmed by analysis of the levels of both spontaneous and induced apoptosis in homozygously bcl-2 null c57bl/6 mice: in colonic crypts the level of spontaneous apoptosis rose significantly  and selectively at the base of the crypt  in comparison with crypts from wild-type animals. in contrast  there was no rise in spontaneous apoptosis in the small intestinal crypts from the bcl-2 null animals. analysis of sections of human colon and small intestine also showed that expression of bcl-2 was confined to the base of the colonic crypt. the attenuation of apoptosis by bcl-2 in the region of the stem cells of the colonic crypts may dispose these to neoplastic transformation. indeed  analysis of human carcinomas revealed expression of bcl-2  which in some samples was reciprocal with the expression of p53.
4185,the embl nucleotide sequence database.,the embl nucleotide sequence database (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/embl. html ) constitutes europe's primary nucleotide sequence resource. dna and rna sequences are directly submitted from researchers and genome sequencing groups and collected from the scientific literature and patent applications (fig. 1). in collaboration with ddbj and genbank the database is produced  maintained and distributed at the european bioinformatics institute. database releases are produced quarterly and are distributed on cd-rom. ebi's network services allow access to the most up-to-date data collection via internet and world wide web interface  providing database searching and sequence similarity facilities plus access to a large number of additional databases.
4187,dishevelled activates jnk and discriminates between jnk pathways in planar polarity and wingless signaling,frizzled family proteins have been described as receptors of wnt signaling molecules. in drosophila  the two known frizzled proteins are associated with distinct developmental processes. genesis of epithelial planar polarity requires frizzled  whereas dfz2 affects morphogenesis by wingless-mediated signaling. dishevelled is required in both signaling pathways. here  we use genetic and overexpression assays to show that dishevelled activates jnk cascades. rescue analysis reveals different protein domain requirements in dishevelled for the two pathways; the c-terminal dep domain is essential to rescue planar polarity defects and induce jnk signaling. furthermore  the planar polarity-specific dsh1 allele is mutated in the dep domain. our results indicate that different wnt/fz signals activate distinct intracellular pathways  and dishevelled discriminates among them by distinct domain interactions.
4189,vitamin d status: measurement  interpretation  and clinical application.,vitamin d  the sunshine vitamin  is now recognized not only for its importance in promoting bone health in children and adults but also for other health benefits  including reducing the risk of chronic diseases such as autoimmune diseases  common cancer  and cardiovascular disease. vitamin d made in the skin or ingested in the diet is biologically inert and requires 2 successive hydroxylations first in the liver on carbon 25 to form 25-hydroxyvitamin d [25(oh)d]  and then in the kidney for a hydroxylation on carbon 1 to form the biologically active form of vitamin d  1 25-dihydroxyvitamin d [1 25(oh)(2)d]. with the identification of 25(oh)d and 1 25(oh)(2)d  methods were developed to measure these metabolites in the circulation. serum 25(oh)d is the barometer for vitamin d status. serum 1 25(oh)(2)d provides no information about vitamin d status and is often normal or even increased as the result of secondary hyperparathyroidism associated with vitamin d deficiency. most experts agree that 25(oh)d of <20 ng/ml is considered to be vitamin d deficiency  whereas a 25(oh)d of 21-29 ng/ml is considered to be insufficient. the goal should be to maintain both children and adults at a level >30 ng/ml to take full advantage of all the health benefits that vitamin d provides.
4191,t helper 2 cytokines inhibit autophagic control of intracellular mycobacterium tuberculosis.,autophagy is a recently recognized immune effector mechanism against intracellular pathogens. the role of autophagy in innate immunity has been well established  but the extent of its regulation by the adaptive immune response is less well understood. the t helper 1 (th1) cell cytokine ifn-gamma induces autophagy in macrophages to eliminate mycobacterium tuberculosis. here  we report that th2 cytokines affect autophagy in macrophages and their ability to control intracellular m. tuberculosis. il-4 and il-13 abrogated autophagy and autophagy-mediated killing of intracellular mycobacteria in murine and human macrophages. inhibition of starvation-induced autophagy by il-4 and il-13 was dependent on akt signaling  whereas the inhibition of ifn-gamma-induced autophagy was akt independent and signal transducer and activator of transcription 6 (stat6) dependent. these findings establish a mechanism through which th1-th2 polarization differentially affects the immune control of intracellular pathogens.
4193,peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor ligand bezafibrate for prevention of type 2 diabetes mellitus in patients with coronary artery disease.,background recent studies have shown that type 2 diabetes is preventable by both lifestyle interventions and medications that influence primary glucose metabolism. whether pharmacological interventions that influence primary lipid metabolism can also delay development of type 2 diabetes is unknown. the goal of this study was to evaluate the effect of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor ligand bezafibrate on the progression of impaired fasting glucose phase to type 2 diabetes in patients with coronary artery disease over a 6.2-year follow-up period. methods and results the study sample comprised 303 nondiabetic patients 42 to 74 years of age with a fasting blood glucose level of 110 to 125 mg/dl (6.1 to 6.9 mmol/l). the patients received either 400 mg bezafibrate retard (156 patients) or placebo (147 patients) once a day. no patients were using statins  and use of ace inhibitors  which also reduce diabetes incidence  was relatively low. during follow-up  development of new-onset diabetes was recorded in 146 patients: in 80 (54.4%) from the placebo group and 66 (42.3%) from the bezafibrate group (p=0.04). the mean time until onset of new diabetes was significantly delayed in patients on bezafibrate compared with patients on placebo: 4.6+/-2.3 versus 3.8+/-2.6 years (p=0.004). multivariate analysis identified bezafibrate treatment as an independent predictor of reduced risk of new diabetes development (hazard ratio  0.70; 95% ci  0.49 to 0.99). other significant variables associated with future overt type 2 diabetes in patients with impaired fasting glucose were total cholesterol level (hazard ratio  1.22; 95% ci 1.0 to 1.51) and body mass index (hazard ratio  1.10; 95% ci  1.05 to 1.16). conclusions bezafibrate reduces the incidence and delays the onset of type 2 diabetes in patients with impaired fasting glucose. whether the combination of bezafibrate with other recommended drugs for secondary prevention (statins and ace inhibitors) would be as efficacious as suggested by our results remains to be determined.
4195,complex formation of smap/kap3  a kif3a/b atpase motor-associated protein  with a human chromosome-associated polypeptide.,we have recently isolated smap (smg gds-associated protein; smg gds: small g protein gdp dissociation stimulator) as a novel smg gds-associated protein  which has armadillo repeats and is phosphorylated by src tyrosine kinase. smap is a human counterpart of mouse kap3 (kinesin superfamily-associated protein) that is associated with mouse kif3a/b (a kinesin superfamily protein)  which functions as a microtubule-based atpase motor for organelle transport. we isolated here a smap-interacting protein from a human brain cdna library  identified it to be a human homolog of xenopus xcap-e (xenopus chromosome-associated polypeptide)  a subunit of condensins that regulate the assembly and structural maintenance of mitotic chromosomes  and named it hcap (human chromosome-associated polypeptide). tissue and subcellular distribution analyses indicated that hcap was ubiquitously expressed and highly concentrated in the nuclear fraction  where smap and kif3b were also present. smap was extracted as a ternary complex with hcap and kif3b from the nuclear fraction in the presence of mg-atp. the results suggest that smap/kap3 serves as a linker between hcap and kif3a/b in the nucleus  and that smap/kap3 plays a role in the interaction of chromosomes with an atpase motor protein.
4197,nuclear-cytoplasmic shuttling of c-abl tyrosine kinase.,the ubiquitously expressed nonreceptor tyrosine kinase c-abl contains three nuclear localization signals  however  it is found in both the nucleus and the cytoplasm of proliferating fibroblasts. a rapid and transient loss of c-abl from the nucleus is observed upon the initial adhesion of fibroblasts onto a fibronectin matrix  suggesting the possibility of nuclear export [lewis  j.  baskaran  r.   taagepera  s.  schwartz  m. & wang  j. (1996) proc. natl. acad. sci. usa 93  15174-15179]. here we show that the c terminus of c-abl does indeed contain a functional nuclear export signal (nes) with the characteristic leucine-rich motif. the c-abl nes can functionally complement an nes-defective hiv rev protein (revdelta3ni) and can mediate the nuclear export of glutathione-s-transferase. the c-abl nes function is sensitive to the nuclear export inhibitor leptomycin b. mutation of a single leucine (l1064a) in the c-abl nes abrogates export function. the nes-mutated c-abl  termed c-abl nes(-)  is localized exclusively to the nucleus. treatment of cells with leptomycin b also leads to the nuclear accumulation of wild-type c-abl protein. the c-abl nes(-) is not lost from the nucleus when detached fibroblasts are replated onto fibronectin matrix. taken together  these results demonstrate that c-abl shuttles continuously between the nucleus and the cytoplasm and that the rate of nuclear import and export can be modulated by the adherence status of fibroblastic cells.
4199,cd4+cd25+foxp3+regulatory t cells protect endothelial function impaired by oxidized low density lipoprotein via the klf-2 transcription factor,objective: to investigate the regulation of cd4+cd25+ regulatory t cells (tregs) on pro-inflammatory adhesion molecules  krüppel-like factor-2 (klf-2) and its downstream transcriptional targets in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (huvecs) impaired by ox-ldl and the mechanisms of it. methods and results: huvecs were cultured in the continuous presence of ox-ldl(0 mg/l 25 mg/l 50 mg/l 100 mg/l) for 4  6  12 and 24 hours to allow identification of early-and late-induced genes  respectively  whereas non-stimulated controls were taken at 0 hours. the expression of pro-inflammatory adhesion molecules such as vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (vcam-1)  intracellular adhesion molecule-1 (icam-1)  e-selectin  klf-2 and its target genes enos  pai-1 were determined by real time rt-pcr and/or western-blot analysis. expression of pro-inflammatory adhesion molecules  klf-2  enos and pai-1 in huvec cultured alone or with anti-cd3 mabs activated tregs  followed by addition of ox-ldl (50 mg/l) for 6 hours  are compared to expression levels in control cultures. ox-ldl treated huvecs increased pro-inflammatory adhesion molecules expression  as well as increased pai-1 but decreased enos expression accompanied with significant downregulating of klf-2 at a dose and time dependent manner. furthermore  ox-ldl increased pro-inflammatory adhesion molecules but inhibited klf2 expression was reversed by addition of tregs. small interfering rna reduced endogenous klf-2 expression and partly reversed the suppressive effect of tregs on huvecs activation  which strongly implicate klf-2 as a transcriptional regulator of the tregs-mediated effects in endothelial cells. mechanism studies reveal that treg-mediated klf2 expression in huvecs impaired by ox-ldl requires cell contact as well as soluble factors. conclusions: tregs could protect endothelial function that is largely dependent on klf2 and its downstream transcriptional targets regulation involving cell-to-cell contact and soluble factors.
4201,molecular mechanisms underlying tumor dormancy.,evidence suggests that dormant  microscopic tumors are not only common  but are highly prevalent in otherwise healthy individuals. due to their small size and non-invasive nature  these dormant tumors remain asymptomatic and  in most cases  undetected. with advances in diagnostic imaging and molecular biology  it is now becoming clear that such neoplasms can remain in an asymptomatic  dormant stage for considerable periods of time without expanding in size. although a number of processes may play a role in thwarting the expansion of microscopic tumors  one critical mechanism behind tumor dormancy is the ability of the tumor population to induce angiogenesis. although cancer can arise through multiple pathways  it is assumed that essentially most tumors begin as microscopic  non-angiogenic neoplasms which cannot expand in size until vasculature is established. it is now becoming clear that cancer does not progress through a continuous exponential growth and mass expansion. clinical cancer is usually manifested only in late  unavoidably symptomatic stages of the disease when tumors are sufficiently large to be readily detected. while dormancy in primary tumors is best defined as the time between the carcinogenic transformation event and the onset of inexorable progressive growth  it can also occur as minimal residual or occult disease from treated tumors or as micro-metastases. the existence of dormant tumors has important implications for the early detection and treatment of cancer. elucidating the regulatory machinery of these processes will be instrumental in identifying novel early cancer biomarkers and could provide a rationale for the development of dormancy-promoting tumor therapies. despite the high prevalence of microscopic  dormant tumors in humans and the significant clinical implications of their early detection  this area in cancer research has  to date  been under-investigated. in this mini review observations  models and experimental approaches to study tumor dormancy are summarized. additionally  analogies and distinctions between the concepts of "tumor dormancy" and that of the "cellular dormancy" of tumor cells  as well as between the "exit from tumor dormancy" and the "onset of the angiogenic switch" are discussed.
4203,how to control residual cardiovascular risk despite statin treatment: focusing on hdl-cholesterol.,lowering low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (ldl-c) is the primary target in the management of dyslipidemia in patients at high risk of cardiovascular disease. however  patients who have achieved ldl-c levels below the currently recommended targets may still experience cardiovascular events. this may result  in part  from elevated triglyceride (tg) levels and low levels of high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (hdl-c). low hdl-c and high tg levels are common and are recognized as independent risk factors for cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. furthermore  atherogenic dyslipidemia  characterized by low levels of hdl-c  high tg  and small  dense ldl particles  is a typical phenotype of dyslipidemia in subjects with insulin resistance and metabolic syndrome. therefore  to reduce further the risk of coronary heart disease (chd)  raising hdl-c and lowering tg may be the secondary therapeutic target for patients who achieve ldl-c levels below the currently recommended targets but are still at risk of chd. however  whether increasing hdl-c levels alone reduces chd has not yet been confirmed in large randomized clinical trials  and whether functional hdl is more important than hdl-c in reducing chd remains controversial. large chd endpoint trials that include many patients with diabetes are underway to compare combination treatments with statin and niacin  fibrates  or cholesteryl ester transfer protein inhibitors with statin alone treatments. in this review  we discuss the rationale and importance of increasing hdl-c levels with and without lowering tg levels in the treatment and prevention of cardiovascular events.
4205,local and systemic insulin resistance resulting from hepatic activation of ikk-beta and nf-kappab.,we show that nf-kappab and transcriptional targets are activated in liver by obesity and high-fat diet (hfd). we have matched this state of chronic  subacute 'inflammation' by low-level activation of nf-kappab in the liver of transgenic mice  designated likk  by selectively expressing constitutively active ikk-b in hepatocytes. these mice exhibit a type 2 diabetes phenotype  characterized by hyperglycemia  profound hepatic insulin resistance  and moderate systemic insulin resistance  including effects in muscle. the hepatic production of proinflammatory cytokines  including il-6  il-1beta and tnf-alpha  was increased in likk mice to a similar extent as induced by hfd in in wild-type mice. parallel increases were observed in cytokine signaling in liver and mucscle of likk mice. insulin resistance was improved by systemic neutralization of il-6 or salicylate inhibition of ikk-beta. hepatic expression of the ikappabalpha superrepressor (lisr) reversed the phenotype of both likk mice and wild-type mice fed an hfd. these findings indicate that lipid accumulation in the liver leads to subacute hepatic 'inflammation' through nf-kappab activation and downstream cytokine production. this causes insulin resistance both locally in liver and systemically.
4207,serum metabolomics in animal models and human disease.,purpose of review the aim of this study is to highlight some recent uses of serum metabolomics in human and animal studies. the main themes are the importance of understanding the underlying variation in human metabolism and the use of serum metabolomics in disease profiling. recent findings several studies have attempted to use serum metabolomics to develop noninvasive biomarkers of disease and/or track the consequences of nutritional and genetic interventions. many advances have been made with common changes being identified in ageing  the menopause and cancer but several problems of interpretation have emerged from these studies. these include the small sample sizes in most human studies and the differences between human and rodent metabolomes. however  a metabolic screen of over 1000 'healthy' humans (the humsermet project) has highlighted many variables that may be used to refine the interpretation and design of previous and future human studies alike  in addition to data mining. summary some common serum metabolome alterations have been identified but many inconsistencies remain. the construction of a human serum metabolome database should be informative in the design of future human and animal model studies.
4209,genome-wide maps of histone modifications unwind in vivo chromatin states of the hair follicle lineage.,using mouse skin  where bountiful reservoirs of synchronized hair follicle stem cells (hf-scs) fuel cycles of regeneration  we explore how adult scs remodel chromatin in response to activating cues. by profiling global mrna and chromatin changes in quiescent and activated hf-scs and their committed  transit-amplifying (ta) progeny  we show that polycomb-group (pcg)-mediated h3k27-trimethylation features prominently in hf-lineage progression by mechanisms distinct from embryonic-scs. in hf-scs  pcg represses nonskin lineages and hf differentiation. in ta progeny  nonskin regulators remain pcg-repressed  hf-sc regulators acquire h3k27me3-marks  and hf-lineage regulators lose them. interestingly  genes poised in embryonic stem cells  active in hf-scs  and pcg-repressed in ta progeny encode not only key transcription factors  but also signaling regulators. we document their importance in balancing hf-sc quiescence  underscoring the power of chromatin mapping in dissecting sc behavior. our findings explain how hf-scs cycle through quiescent and activated states without losing stemness and define roles for pcg-mediated repression in governing a fate switch irreversibly.
4211,the binding of maize dhn1 to lipid vesicles. gain of structure and lipid specificity.,dehydrins (dhns; late embryogenesis abundant d-11) are a family of plant proteins induced in response to abiotic stresses such as drought  low temperature  and salinity or during the late stages of embryogenesis. spectral and thermal properties of these proteins in purified form suggest that they are "intrinsically unstructured. " however  dhns contain at least one copy of a consensus 15-amino acid sequence  the "k segment " which resembles a class a2 amphipathic alpha-helical  lipid-binding domain found in other proteins such as apolipoproteins and alpha-synuclein. the presence of the k segment raises the question of whether dhns bind lipids  bilayers  or phospholipid vesicles. here  we show that maize (zea mays) dhn dhn1 can bind to lipid vesicles that contain acidic phospholipids. we also observe that dhn1 binds more favorably to vesicles of smaller diameter than to larger vesicles  and that the association of dhn1 with vesicles results in an apparent increase of alpha-helicity of the protein. therefore  dhns  and presumably somewhat similar plant stress proteins in the late embryogenesis abundant and cold-regulated classes may undergo function-related conformational changes at the water/membrane interface  perhaps related to the stabilization of vesicles or other endomembrane structures under stress conditions.
4213,gene expression in human skeletal muscle: alternative normalization method and effect of repeated biopsies,the reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (rt-pcr) method has lately become widely used to determine transcription and mrna content in rodent and human muscle samples. however  the common use of endogenous controls for correcting for variance in cdna between samples is not optimal. specifically  we investigated (1) a new normalization method based on determining the cdna content by the flourophores picogreen and oligreen  (2) effect of repeated muscle biopsies on mrna gene expression  and (3) the spatial heterogeneity in mrna expression across the muscle. standard curves using oligo standards revealed a high degree of sensitivity and linearity (2.5–45 ng; r 2>0.99) with oligreen reagent  as was the case for oligreen analyses with standard curves constructed from serial dilutions of representative rt samples (r 2 >0.99 for a ten times dilution range of a representative reversed transcribed (rt) sample). likewise  picogreen reagent detected the rna:dna hybrid content in rt samples with great sensitivity. standard curves constructed from both double-stranded lambda dna (1–10 ng) and from serial dilutions of representative rt samples consistently resulted in linearity with r 2 >0.99. the present determination of cdna content in reversed transcribed human skeletal muscle rna samples by both picogreen and oligreen analyses suggests that these fluorophores provide a potential alternative normalization procedure for human gene expression studies. in addition  the present study shows that multiple muscle biopsies obtained from the same muscle do not influence the mrna response induced by an acute exercise bout for any of the genes examined.
4215,use of thiazolidinediones and the risk of bladder cancer among people with type 2 diabetes: a meta-analysis.,background patients with type 2 diabetes have a 40% increased risk of bladder cancer. thiazolidinediones  especially pioglitazone  may increase the risk. we conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis to evaluate the risk of bladder cancer among adults with type 2 diabetes taking thiazolidinediones. methods we searched key biomedical databases (including medline  embase and scopus) and sources of grey literature from inception through march 2012 for published and unpublished studies  without language restrictions. we included randomized controlled trials (rcts)  cohort studies and case-control studies that reported incident bladder cancer among people with type 2 diabetes who ever (v. never) were exposed to pioglitazone (main outcome)  rosiglitazone or any thiazolidinedione. results of the 1787 studies identified  we selected 4 rcts  5 cohort studies and 1 case-control study. the total number of patients was 2 657 365  of whom 3643 had newly diagnosed bladder cancer  for an overall incidence of 53.1 per 100 000 person-years. the one rct that reported on pioglitazone use found no significant association with bladder cancer (risk ratio [rr] 2.36  95% confidence interval [ci] 0.91-6.13). the cohort studies of thiazolidinediones (pooled rr 1.15  95% ci 1.04-1.26; i(2) = 0%) and of pioglitazone specifically (pooled rr 1.22  95% ci 1.07-1.39; i(2) = 0%) showed significant associations with bladder cancer. no significant association with bladder cancer was observed in the two rcts that evaluated rosiglitazone use (pooled rr 0.87  95% ci 0.34-2.23; i(2) = 0%). interpretation the limited evidence available supports the hypothesis that thiazolidinediones  particularly pioglitazone  are associated with an increased risk of bladder cancer among adults with type 2 diabetes.
4217,ionizing radiation-induced long-term expression of senescence markers in mice is independent of p53 and immune status.,exposure to ir has been shown to induce the formation of senescence markers  a phenotype that coincides with lifelong delayed repair and regeneration of irradiated tissues. we hypothesized that ir-induced senescence markers could persist long-term in vivo  possibly contributing to the permanent reduction in tissue functionality. here  we show that mouse tissues exposed to a sublethal dose of ir display persistent (up to 45 weeks  the maximum time analyzed) dna damage foci and increased p16(ink4a) expression  two hallmarks of cellular senescence and aging. brdu-labeling experiments revealed that ir-induced damaged cells are preferentially eliminated  at least partially  in a tissue-dependent manner. unexpectedly  the accumulation of damaged cells was found to occur independent from the dna damage response modulator p53  and from an intact immune system  as their levels were similar in wild-type and rag2(-/-) gammac(-/-) mice  the latter being deficient in t  b  and nk cells. together  our results provide compelling evidence that exposure to ir induces long-term expression of senescence markers in vivo  an effect that may contribute to the reduced tissue functionality observed in cancer survivors.
4219,tamoxifen resistance in mcf7 cells promotes emt-like behaviour and involves modulation of beta-catenin phosphorylation.,we have previously demonstrated that  following acquisition of endocrine resistance  breast cancer cells display an altered growth rate together with increased aggressive behaviour in vitro. since dysfunctional cell-cell adhesive interactions can promote an aggressive phenotype  we investigated the integrity of this protein complex in our breast cancer model of tamoxifen resistance. in culture  tamoxifen-resistant mcf7 (tamr) cells grew as loosely packed colonies with loss of cell-cell junctions and demonstrated altered morphology characteristic of cells undergoing epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (emt). neutralising e-cadherin function promoted the invasion and inhibited the aggregation of endocrine-sensitive mcf7 cells  whilst having little effect on the behaviour of tamr cells. additionally  tamr cells had increased levels of tyrosine-phosphorylated beta-catenin  whilst serine/threonine-phosphorylated beta-catenin was decreased. these cells also displayed loss of association between beta-catenin and e-cadherin  increased cytoplasmic and nuclear beta-catenin and elevated transcription of beta-catenin target genes known to be involved in tumour progression and emt. inhibition of egfr kinase activity in tamr cells reduced beta-catenin tyrosine phosphorylation  increased beta-catenin-e-cadherin association and promoted cell-cell adhesion. in such treated cells  the association of beta-catenin with lef-1 and the transcription of c-myc  cyclin-d1  cd44 and cox-2 were also reduced. these results suggest that homotypic adhesion in tamoxifen-resistant breast cancer cells is dysfunctional due to egfr-driven modulation of the phosphorylation status of beta-catenin and may contribute to an enhanced aggressive phenotype and transition towards a mesenchymal phenotype in vitro.
4221,a protein farnesyltransferase inhibitor ameliorates disease in a mouse model of progeria.,progerias are rare genetic diseases characterized by premature aging. several progeroid disorders are caused by mutations that lead to the accumulation of a lipid-modified (farnesylated) form of prelamin a  a protein that contributes to the structural scaffolding for the cell nucleus. in progeria  the accumulation of farnesyl-prelamin a disrupts this scaffolding  leading to misshapen nuclei. previous studies have shown that farnesyltransferase inhibitors (ftis) reverse this cellular abnormality. we tested the efficacy of an fti (abt-100) in zmpste24-deficient mice  a mouse model of progeria. the fti-treated mice exhibited improved body weight  grip strength  bone integrity  and percent survival at 20 weeks of age. these results suggest that ftis may have beneficial effects in humans with progeria.
4223,treatment of active tuberculosis in hiv-coinfected patients: a systematic review and meta-analysis.,background patients with human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection and tuberculosis have an increased risk of death  treatment failure  and relapse. methods a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized  controlled trials and cohort studies was conducted to evaluate the impact of duration and dosing schedule of rifamycin and use of antiretroviral therapy in the treatment of active tuberculosis in hiv-positive patients. in included studies  the initial tuberculosis diagnosis  failure  and/or relapse were microbiologically confirmed  and patients received standardized rifampin- or rifabutin-containing regimens. pooled cumulative incidence of treatment failure  death during treatment  and relapse were calculated using random-effects models. multivariable meta-regression was performed using negative binomial regression. results after screening 5158 citations  6 randomized trials and 21 cohort studies were included. relapse was more common with regimens using 2 months rifamycin (adjusted risk ratio  3.6; 95% confidence interval  1.1-11.7) than with regimens using rifamycin for at least 8 months. compared with daily therapy in the initial phase (n=3352 patients from 35 study arms)  thrice-weekly therapy (n=211 patients from 5 study arms) was associated with higher rates of failure (adjusted risk ratio  4.0; 95% confidence interval  1.5-10.4) and relapse [adjusted risk ratio  4.8; 95% confidence interval  1.8-12.8). there were trends toward higher relapse rates if rifamycins were used for only 6 months  compared with > or =8 months  or if antiretroviral therapy was not used. conclusions this review raises serious concerns regarding current recommendations for treatment of hiv-tuberculosis coinfection. the data suggest that at least 8 months duration of rifamycin therapy  initial daily dosing  and concurrent antiretroviral therapy might be associated with better outcomes  but adequately powered randomized trials are urgently needed to confirm this.
4225,deficiency in l-serine deaminase results in abnormal growth and cell division of escherichia coli k-12.,the loss of the ability to deaminate l-serine severely impairs growth and cell division in escherichia coli k-12. a strain from which the three genes (sdaa  sdab  tdcg) coding for this organism's three l-serine deaminases had been deleted grows well in glucose minimal medium but  on subculture into minimal medium with glucose and casamino acids  it makes very large  abnormally shaped cells  many of which lyse. when inoculated into luria-bertani (lb) broth with or without glucose  it makes very long filaments. provision of s-adenosylmethionine restores cell division in lb broth with glucose  and repairs much of the difficulty in growth in medium with casamino acids. we suggest that replication of e. coli is regulated by methylation  that an unusually high intracellular l-serine concentration  in the presence of other amino acids  starves the cell for s-adenosylmethionine and that it is the absence of s-adenosylmethionine and/or of c1-tetrahydrofolate derivatives that prevents normal cell division.
4227,resistance to antimicrobials in humans and animals.,overusing antibiotics is not the only cause and reducing use is not the only solution   w arning signs of antimicrobial resistance  chinks in the antimicrobial armour  began to appear in the middle of the last century  and by the 1990s various reports had signalled the dangers of excessive or inappropriate use of antibiotics in clinical medicine and of the use of antibiotics in animal feed as growth promoters.1–3 overuse of antimicrobials emerged as the main culprit  and reducing their use was seen as the answer. but it may not be that simple. the idea that reducing antibiotic use would redress the problem formed part of a positive response on the part of the united kingdom government to the house of lords report 1 including a public information campaign  surveillance of resistance along the food chain  targets with respect to hospital acquired infections  and setting up of an overarching advisory body on all aspects of antibiotic use. however  the concept of overuse has proved too simplistic  for  although the evidence of overprescribing as the …
4229,a key role for ctf4 in coupling the mcm2-7 helicase to dna polymerase alpha within the eukaryotic replisome.,the eukaryotic replisome is a crucial determinant of genome stability  but its structure is still poorly understood. we found previously that many regulatory proteins assemble around the mcm2-7 helicase at yeast replication forks to form the replisome progression complex (rpc)  which might link mcm2-7 to other replisome components. here  we show that the rpc associates with dna polymerase alpha that primes each okazaki fragment during lagging strand synthesis. our data indicate that a complex of the gins and ctf4 components of the rpc is crucial to couple mcm2-7 to dna polymerase alpha. others have found recently that the mrc1 subunit of rpcs binds dna polymerase epsilon  which synthesises the leading strand at dna replication forks. we show that cells lacking both ctf4 and mrc1 experience chronic activation of the dna damage checkpoint during chromosome replication and do not complete the cell cycle. these findings indicate that coupling mcm2-7 to replicative polymerases is an important feature of the regulation of chromosome replication in eukaryotes  and highlight a key role for ctf4 in this process.
4231,a clinical approach to circadian rhythm sleep disorders.,circadian rhythm sleep disorders are characterized by complaints of insomnia and excessive sleepiness that are primarily due to alterations in the internal circadian timing system or a misalignment between the timing of sleep and the 24-h social and physical environment. in addition to physiological and environmental factors  maladaptive behaviors often play an important role in the development of many of the circadian rhythm sleep disorders. this review will focus on the clinical approach to the diagnosis and management of the various circadian rhythm sleep disorders  including delayed sleep phase disorder  advanced sleep phase disorder  non-entrained type  irregular sleep-wake rhythm  shift work sleep disorder and jet lag disorder. diagnostic tools such as sleep diaries and wrist activity monitoring are often useful in confirming the diagnosis. because behavioral and environmental factors often are involved in the development of these conditions  a multimodal approach is usually necessary. interventions include sleep hygiene education  timed exposure to bright light as well as avoidance of bright light at the wrong time of the day and pharmacologic approaches  such as melatonin. however  it should be noted that the use of melatonin is not an fda-approved indication for the treatment of circadian rhythm sleep disorders.
4233,integrating nutrition security with treatment of people living with hiv: lessons from kenya.,background the increased caloric requirements of hiv-positive individuals  undesirable side effects of treatment that may be worsened by malnutrition (but alleviated by nutritional support)  and associated declines in adherence and possible increased drug resistance are all justifications for developing better interventions to strengthen the nutrition security of individuals receiving antiretroviral treatment. objective to highlight key benefits and challenges relating to interventions aimed at strengthening the nutrition security of people living with hiv who are receiving antiretroviral treatment. methods qualitative research was undertaken on a short-term nutrition intervention linked to the provision of free antiretroviral treatment for people living with hiv in western kenya in late 2005 and early 2006. results patients enrolled in the food program while on treatment regimens self-reported greater adherence to their medication  fewer side effects  and a greater ability to satisfy increased appetite. most clients self-reported weight gain  recovery of physical strength  and the resumption of labor activities while enrolled in dual (food supplementation and treatment) programs. such improvements were seen to catalyze increased support from family and community. conclusions these findings provide further empirical support to calls for a more holistic and comprehensive response to the coexistence of aids epidemics with chronic nutrition insecurity. future work is needed to clarify ways of bridging the gap between short-term nutritional support to individuals and longer-term livelihood security programming for communities affected by aids. such interdisciplinary research will need to be matched by intersectoral action on the part of the agriculture and health sectors in such environments.
4235,significant correlation between lkb1 and lgr5 gene expression and the association with poor recurrence-free survival in rectal cancer after preoperative chemoradiotherapy,the aim of the present study was to investigate whether the gene expression levels of lkb1 and lgr5 correlated with clinical outcome in patients with locally advanced rectal cancer treated with preoperative chemoradiotherapy (crt). residual cancer cells were obtained from 52 patients with locally advanced rectal cancer treated with preoperative crt. total rna was then isolated from formalin-fixed  paraffin-embedded specimens using microdissection. the expression levels of lkb1 and lgr5 genes were measured using real-time reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction and by immunohistochemistry. in addition  in vitro studies were performed using colon cancer cell lines to study the serial changes of lkb1  lgr5 and prkaa1 (ampk) gene expression levels after irradiation. our data demonstrate that specimens obtained from patients with poor pathological response and tumor recurrence had significantly higher gene expression levels of lkb1 and lgr5 than those without them (p < 0.05)  and there was a significant positive correlation between lkb1 and lgr5 gene expression after crt (spearman’s ρ: 0.429  p = 0.0023). the patients with high expression levels of both lkb1 and lgr5 had a significantly lower recurrence-free survival compared with the other group (p = 0.0055  95 % confidence interval: 1.39–11.08). lastly  in vitro studies demonstrated a similar pattern of serial gene expression among lkb1  lgr5 and prkaa1 after irradiation. our results suggest that lkb1 and lgr5 expression may be implicated in resistance to crt  therefore contributing to tumor relapse in patients with locally advanced rectal cancer treated with preoperative crt.
4237,multicenter phase ii study of lapatinib in patients with brain metastases from her2-positive breast cancer.,purpose brain metastases develop in one third of patients with advanced her2+ breast cancer. effective therapy for patients with central nervous system (cns) progression after cranial radiation is extremely limited and represents a major clinical challenge. lapatinib  an epidermal growth factor receptor/her2 inhibitor  was associated with regressions of cns lesions in a small phase 2 trial. the current study was done to further evaluate the cns activity of lapatinib. the study was later amended to allow patients who progressed on lapatinib the option of receiving lapatinib plus capecitabine. experimental design eligible patients had her2+ breast cancer  progressive brain metastases  prior trastuzumab  and cranial radiotherapy. the primary end point was cns objective response  defined as >or=50% volumetric reduction of cns lesion(s) in the absence of increasing steroid use  progressive neurologic signs and symptoms  or progressive extra-cns disease. results two-hundred and forty-two patients entered the study. cns objective responses to lapatinib were observed in 6% of patients. in an exploratory analysis  21% of patients experienced a >or=20% volumetric reduction in their cns lesions. an association was observed between volumetric reduction and improvement in progression-free survival and neurologic signs and symptoms. of the 50 evaluable patients who entered the lapatinib plus capecitabine extension  20% experienced a cns objective response and 40% experienced a >or=20% volumetric reduction in their cns lesions. conclusions this study confirms the modest cns antitumor activity of lapatinib. additional responses were observed with the combination of lapatinib and capecitabine. further studies of lapatinib-based regimens for cns metastases from her2+ breast cancer are warranted.
4239,circulating tumor dna as a non-invasive substitute to metastasis biopsy for tumor genotyping and personalized medicine in a prospective trial across all tumor types.,cell-free tumor dna (ctdna) has the potential to enable non-invasive diagnostic tests for personalized medicine in providing similar molecular information as that derived from invasive tumor biopsies. the histology-independent phase ii shiva trial matches patients with targeted therapeutics based on previous screening of multiple somatic mutations using metastatic biopsies. to evaluate the utility of ctdna in this trial  as an ancillary study we performed de novo detection of somatic mutations using plasma dna compared to metastasis biopsies in 34 patients covering 18 different tumor types  scanning 46 genes and more than 6800 cosmic mutations with a multiplexed next-generation sequencing panel. in 27 patients  28 of 29 mutations identified in metastasis biopsies (97%) were detected in matched ctdna. among these 27 patients  one additional mutation was found in ctdna only. in the seven other patients  mutation detection from metastasis biopsy failed due to inadequate biopsy material  but was successful in all plasma dna samples providing three more potential actionable mutations. these results suggest that ctdna analysis is a potential alternative and/or replacement to analyses using costly  harmful and lengthy tissue biopsies of metastasis  irrespective of cancer type and metastatic site  for multiplexed mutation detection in selecting personalized therapies based on the patient's tumor genetic content.
4241,new opportunities: the use of nanotechnologies to manipulate and track stem cells.,nanotechnologies are emerging platforms that could be useful in measuring  understanding  and manipulating stem cells. examples include magnetic nanoparticles and quantum dots for stem cell labeling and in vivo tracking; nanoparticles  carbon nanotubes  and polyplexes for the intracellular delivery of genes/oligonucleotides and protein/peptides; and engineered nanometer-scale scaffolds for stem cell differentiation and transplantation. this review examines the use of nanotechnologies for stem cell tracking  differentiation  and transplantation. we further discuss their utility and the potential concerns regarding their cytotoxicity.
4243,gene expression analysis by cdna microarray in oral squamous cell carcinoma.,background oral squamous cell carcinoma (oscc) is common type of human cancer  but little is known about the molecular mechanisms deciding on this malignancy. comprehensive gene expression profiling is essential for understanding oscc. methods cdna microarray was used to analyze expression patterns of 16 617 genes in nine oscc patients. results forty-seven genes with altered expression among all cases were extracted. the ontology of these 47 genes was classified into 10 categories. to validate the microarray data  the expression of genes  including tgfbi  fadd and dusp1 was analyzed by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (rt-pcr). by hierarchical clustering analysis  the nine cases were divided into two clusters. conclusions the 47 genes are suggested as having a functional significance in oral squamous cell carcinogenesis. it is also suggested that the gene expression patterns by hierarchical clustering analysis can represent degrees of differentiation. the postoperative recovery was uneventful and patients free from tumor after surgery. in the future  on the occasion when the time comes that the number of cases accumulated for microarray increases and each case is observed more over a long-term  these data of 5-year survival rate will be added. thereby  it will become possible to represent the malignancy of oscc by these gene expression patterns.
4245,a mathematical investigation of the effects of inhibitor therapy on three putative phosphorylation cascades governing the two-component system of the agr operon.,two-component systems (tcss) are widely employed by bacteria to sense specific external signals and conduct an appropriate response via a phosphorylation cascade within the cell. the tcs of the agr operon in the bacterium staphylococcus aureus forms part of a regulatory process termed quorum sensing  a cell-to-cell communication mechanism used to assess population density. since s. aureus manipulates this "knowledge" in order to co-ordinate production of its armoury of exotoxin virulence factors required to promote infection  it is important to understand fully how this process works. we present three models of the agr operon  each incorporating a different phosphorylation cascade for the tcs since the precise nature of the cascade is not fully understood. using numerical and asymptotic techniques we examine the effects of inhibitor therapy  a novel approach to controlling bacterial infection through the attenuation of virulence  on each of these three cascades. we present results which  if evaluated against appropriate experimental data  provide insights into the potential effectiveness of such therapy. moreover  the tcs models presented here are of broad relevance given that tcss are widely conserved throughout the bacterial kingdom.
4247,autophagy and mtorc1 regulate the stochastic phase of somatic cell reprogramming,we describe robust induction of autophagy during the reprogramming of mouse fibroblasts to induced pluripotent stem cells by four reprogramming factors (sox2  oct4  klf4 and c-myc)  henceforth 4f. this process occurs independently of p53 activation  and is mediated by the synergistic downregulation of mechanistic target of rapamycin complex 1 (mtorc1) and the induction of autophagy-related genes. the 4f coordinately repress mtorc1  but bifurcate in their regulation of autophagy-related genes  with klf4 and c-myc inducing them but sox2 and oct4 inhibiting them. on one hand  inhibition of mtorc1 facilitates reprogramming by promoting cell reshaping (mitochondrial remodelling and cell size reduction). on the other hand  mtorc1 paradoxically impairs reprogramming by triggering autophagy. autophagy does not participate in cell reshaping in reprogramming but instead degrades p62  whose accumulation in autophagy-deficient cells facilitates reprogramming. our results thus reveal a complex signalling network involving mtorc1 inhibition and autophagy induction in the early phase of reprogramming  whose delicate balance ultimately determines reprogramming efficiency.
4249,the progression from hypertension to congestive heart failure.,objectives - to study the relative and population-attributable risks of hypertension for the development of congestive heart failure (chf)  to assess the time course of progression from hypertension to chf  and to identify risk factors that contribute to the development of overt heart failure in hypertensive subjects. design - inception cohort study. setting - general community. participants - original framingham heart study and framingham offspring study participants aged 40 to 89 years and free of chf. to reflect more contemporary experience  the starting point of this study was january 1  1970. exposure measures - hypertension (blood pressure of at least 140 mm hg systolic or 90 mm hg diastolic or current use of medications for treatment of high blood pressure) and other potential chf risk factors were assessed at periodic clinic examinations. outcome measure - the development of chf. results - a total of 5143 eligible subjects contributed 72422 person-years of observation. during up to 20.1 years of follow-up (mean  14.1 years)  there were 392 new cases of heart failure; in 91% (357/392)  hypertension antedated the development of heart failure. adjusting for age and heart failure risk factors in proportional hazards regression models  the hazard for developing heart failure in hypertensive compared with normotensive subjects was about 2-fold in men and 3-fold in women. multivariable analyses revealed that hypertension had a high population-attributable risk for chf  accounting for 39% of cases in men and 59% in women. among hypertensive subjects  myocardial infarction  diabetes  left ventricular hypertrophy  and valvular heart disease were predictive of increased risk for chf in both sexes. survival following the onset of hypertensive chf was bleak; only 24% of men and 31% of women survived 5 years. conclusions - hypertension was the most common risk factor for chf  and it contributed a large proportion of heart failure cases in this population-based sample. preventive strategies directed toward earlier and more aggressive blood pressure control are likely to offer the greatest promise for reducing the incidence of chf and its associated mortality.
4251,large-scale candidate gene scan reveals the role of chemoreceptor genes in host plant specialization and speciation in the pea aphid.,understanding the drivers of speciation is critical to interpreting patterns of biodiversity. the identification of the genetic changes underlying adaptation and reproductive isolation is necessary to link barriers to gene flow to the causal origins of divergence. here  we present a novel approach to the genetics of speciation  which should complement the commonly used approaches of quantitative trait locus mapping and genome-wide scans for selection. we present a large-scale candidate gene approach by means of sequence capture  applied to identifying the genetic changes underlying reproductive isolation in the pea aphid  a model system for the study of ecological speciation. targeted resequencing enabled us to scale up the candidate gene approach  specifically testing for the role of chemosensory gene families in host plant specialization. screening for the signature of divergence under selection at 172 candidate and noncandidate loci  we revealed a handful of loci that show high levels of differentiation among host races  which almost all correspond to odorant and gustatory receptor genes. this study offers the first indication that some chemoreceptor genes  often tightly linked together in the genome  could play a key role in local adaptation and reproductive isolation in the pea aphid and potentially other phytophagous insects. our approach opens a new route toward the functional genomics of ecological speciation.
4253,serum amyloid a: an acute-phase protein involved in tumour pathogenesis,the synthesis of acute-phase protein serum amyloid a (saa) is largely regulated by inflammation- associated cytokines and a high concentration of circulating saa may represent an ideal marker for acute and chronic inflammatory diseases. however  saa is also synthesized in extrahepatic tissues  e.g. human carcinoma metastases and cancer cell lines. an increasing body of in vitro data supports the concept of involvement of saa in carcinogenesis and neoplastic diseases. accumulating evidence suggests that saa might be included in a group of biomarkers to detect a pattern of physiological events that reflect the growth of malignancy and host response. this review is meant to provide a broad overview of the many ways that saa could contribute to tumour development  and accelerate tumour progression and metastasis  and to gain a better understanding of this acute-phase reactant as a possible link between chronic inflammation and neoplasia.
4255,the anaphase promoting complex/cyclosome: a machine designed to destroy,the anaphase promoting complex/cyclosome (apc/c) is a ubiquitin ligase that has essential functions in and outside the eukaryotic cell cycle. it is the most complex molecular machine that is known to catalyse ubiquitylation reactions  and it contains more than a dozen subunits that assemble into a large 1.5-mda complex. recent discoveries have revealed an unexpected multitude of mechanisms that control apc/c activity  and have provided a first insight into how this unusual ubiquitin ligase recognizes its substrates.
4257,declining tuberculosis notification trend associated with strengthened tb and expanded hiv care in swaziland.,this retrospective observational review documents the efforts of the swaziland national tuberculosis (tb) control programme between 2004 and 2014. the objective is to describe the disparity between actual declines in case notification and increases in estimated incidence. the review of policies and practices shows the most influential factors associated with the decrease in tb case notification to be an increase in access to antiretroviral therapy for co-infected tb patients  the general success of tb and human immunodeficiency virus service integration in the country and improvements in implementation of all components of directly observed treatment  active case finding  and rapid diagnosis using new technologies.
4259,time from finding abnormality on mass-screening to final diagnosis of lung cancer.,mass-screening for lung cancer is rather a unique system in japan. this study illustrates time from finding abnormality on mass-screening to final diagnosis of lung cancer. among the 517 patients with lung cancer who were admitted to our hospital over a 10-year period up to december 2001  83 (16.1%) were detected by mass-screening. we reviewed medical records of the 83 patients and determined the intervals from the mass-screening to the pathological diagnosis with clinical staging. time from the mass-screening to the date of hospital visit was <2 months in 62 (74.7%) cases. five (6.0%) patients visited hospital more than 6 months after the mass-screening. with respect to the interval  there was no statistical difference in gender (p=0.0680) and age (p=0.1532). among 60 patients who were referred from outside  on average  patients visited our hospital 0.5 month after they first sought medical attention at nearby clinic  and at our hospital 0.5 month was required to make a pathological diagnosis of lung cancer with tnm staging. there was a statistical difference in survival between the patients who were diagnosed <4 months and the patients who were diagnosed >4 months from the screening (p=0.0487). the interval in most cases was acceptable. however  further improvements are still needed to minimize the delay and to maximize the benefits of early cancer detection.
4261,antibiotics and risk of subsequent first-time acute myocardial infarction.,context increasing evidence supports the hypothesis of a causal association between certain bacterial infections and increased risk of developing acute myocardial infarction. if such a causal association exists  subjects who used antibiotics active against the bacteria  regardless of indication  might be at lower risk of developing acute myocardial infarction than nonusers. objective to determine whether previous use of antibiotics decreases the risk of developing a first-time acute myocardial infarction. design population-based case-control analysis. setting the united kingdom-based general practice research database comprising 350 general practices. patients a total of 3315 case patients aged 75 years or younger with a diagnosis of first-time acute myocardial infarction between 1992 and 1997 and 13139 controls without myocardial infarction matched to cases for age  sex  general practice attended  and calendar time. main outcome measures use of antibiotics among those who did or did not have a first-time acute myocardial infarction. results cases were significantly less likely to have used tetracycline antibiotics (adjusted odds ratio [or]  0.70; 95% confidence interval [ci]  0.55-0.90) or quinolones (adjusted or  0.45; 95% ci  0.21-0.95). no effect was found for previous use of macrolides (primarily erythromycin)  sulfonamides  penicillins  or cephalosporins. conclusions the findings from this large case-control analysis provide further  albeit indirect  evidence for an association between bacterial infections with organisms susceptible to tetracycline or quinolone antibiotics and the risk of acute myocardial infarction. these results of preliminary nature should stimulate more research to further explore the role of infections in the etiology of acute myocardial infarction.
4263,interlaboratory reproducibility and proficiency testing within the human papillomavirus cervical cancer screening program in catalonia  spain.,in catalonia  a screening protocol for cervical cancer  including human papillomavirus (hpv) dna testing using the digene hybrid capture 2 (hc2) assay  was implemented in 2006. in order to monitor interlaboratory reproducibility  a proficiency testing (pt) survey of the hpv samples was launched in 2008. the aim of this study was to explore the repeatability of the hc2 assay's performance. participating laboratories provided 20 samples annually  5 randomly chosen samples from each of the following relative light unit (rlu) intervals: <0.5  0.5 to 0.99  1 to 9.99  and ≥10. kappa statistics were used to determine the agreement levels between the original and the pt readings. the nature and origin of the discrepant results were calculated by bootstrapping. a total of 946 specimens were retested. the kappa values were 0.91 for positive/negative categorical classification and 0.79 for the four rlu intervals studied. sample retesting yielded systematically lower rlu values than the original test (p<0.005)  independently of the time elapsed between the two determinations (median  53 days)  possibly due to freeze-thaw cycles. the probability for a sample to show clinically discrepant results upon retesting was a function of the rlu value; samples with rlu values in the 0.5 to 5 interval showed 10.80% probability to yield discrepant results (95% confidence interval [ci]  7.86 to 14.33) compared to 0.85% probability for samples outside this interval (95% ci  0.17 to 1.69). globally  the hc2 assay shows high interlaboratory concordance. we have identified differential confidence thresholds and suggested the guidelines for interlaboratory pt in the future  as analytical quality assessment of hpv dna detection remains a central component of the screening program for cervical cancer prevention.
4265,adhesion disengagement uncouples intrinsic and extrinsic forces to drive cytokinesis in epithelial tissues.,cytokinesis entails cell invagination by a contractile actomyosin ring. in epithelia  e-cadherin-mediated adhesion connects the cortices of contacting cells; thus  it is unclear how invagination occurs  how the new junction forms  and how tissue integrity is preserved. investigations in drosophila embryos first show that apicobasal cleavage is polarized: invagination is faster from the basal than from the apical side. ring contraction but not its polarized constriction is controlled by septin filaments and anillin. polarized cleavage is due instead to mechanical anchorage of the ring to e-cadherin complexes. formation of the new junction requires local adhesion disengagement in the cleavage furrow  followed by new e-cadherin complex formation at the new interface. e-cadherin disengagement depends on the tension exerted by the cytokinetic ring and by neighboring cells. we uncover intrinsic and extrinsic forces necessary for cytokinesis and present a framework for understanding how tissue cohesion is preserved during epithelial division.
4267,oral fingolimod (fty720) for relapsing multiple sclerosis.,background fingolimod (fty720) is a new oral immunomodulating agent under evaluation for the treatment of relapsing multiple sclerosis. methods we randomly assigned 281 patients to receive oral fingolimod  at a dose of 1.25 mg or 5.0 mg  or a placebo once daily  and we followed these patients for 6 months with magnetic resonance imaging (mri) and clinical evaluations (core study  months 0 to 6). the primary end point was the total number of gadolinium-enhanced lesions recorded on t(1)-weighted mri at monthly intervals for 6 months. in an extension study in which the investigators and patients remained unaware of the dose assignments (months 7 to 12)  patients who received placebo underwent randomization again to one of the fingolimod doses. results a total of 255 patients completed the core study. the median total number of gadolinium-enhanced lesions on mri was lower with 1.25 mg of fingolimod (1 lesion  p<0.001) and 5.0 mg of fingolimod (3 lesions  p=0.006) than with placebo (5 lesions). the annualized relapse rate was 0.77 in the placebo group  as compared with 0.35 in the group given 1.25 mg of fingolimod (p=0.009) and 0.36 in the group given 5.0 mg of fingolimod (p=0.01). for the 227 patients who completed the extension study  the number of gadolinium-enhanced lesions and relapse rates remained low in the groups that received continuous fingolimod  and both measures decreased in patients who switched from placebo to fingolimod. adverse events included nasopharyngitis  dyspnea  headache  diarrhea  and nausea. clinically asymptomatic elevations of alanine aminotransferase levels were more frequent with fingolimod (10 to 12%  vs. 1% in the placebo group). one case of the posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome occurred in the 5.0-mg group. fingolimod was also associated with an initial reduction in the heart rate and a modest decrease in the forced expiratory volume in 1 second. conclusions in this proof-of-concept study  fingolimod reduced the number of lesions detected on mri and clinical disease activity in patients with multiple sclerosis. evaluation in larger  longer-term studies is warranted. (clinicaltrials.gov numbers  nct00333138 [core study] and nct00235430 [clinicaltrials.gov] [extension].).
4269,moderate regular exercise increases basal production of nitric oxide in elderly women.,vascular endothelial cells produce nitric oxide (no)  which is a potent vasodilator substance and is thought to have antiatherosclerotic properties. therefore  it has also been proposed that no may be useful to regulate vascular tonus and prevent progression of atherosclerosis. on the other hand  no activity reduces with aging. we previously reported that the plasma nitrite/nitrate (nox: the stable end product of no) concentration was significantly increased by intense aerobic exercise training in healthy young humans. we hypothesized that lifestyle modification (e.g.  even mild regular exercise training) can increase no production in previously sedentary older humans. we measured the plasma nox concentration before and after a mild aerobic exercise training regimen (cycling on a leg ergometer at 80% ventilatory threshold for 30 min  5 days/week) for 3 months in elderly women. in addition  we assessed the plasma concentration of cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cgmp)  a second messenger of no  in the same samples. the individual ventilatory threshold increased significantly after the 3-month exercise training. the blood pressure at rest significantly decreased after exercise training. these results suggest that the 3-month exercise training in the older women produced favorable physiological effects. the plasma concentration of nox significantly increased by the exercise training  and the plasma concentration of cgmp also increased by the exercise training. the present study suggests that even a mild regular aerobic-endurance exercise increases no production in previously sedentary older humans  which may have beneficial effects (i.e.  antihypertensive and antiatherosclerotic effects by endogenous no) on the cardiovascular system.
4271,primary prevention of ischemic stroke: a statement for healthcare professionals from the stroke council of the american heart association.,stroke ranks as the third leading cause of death in the united states. it is now estimated that there are more than 700 000 incident strokes annually and 4.4 million stroke survivors.1 2 the economic burden of stroke was estimated by the american heart association to be $51 billion (direct and indirect costs) in 1999.3 despite the advent of treatment of selected patients with acute ischemic stroke with tissue plasminogen activator and the promise of other experimental therapies  the best approach to reducing the burden of stroke remains prevention.4 5 high-risk or stroke-prone individuals can be identified and targeted for specific interventions.6 this is important because epidemiological data suggest a substantial leveling off of prior declines in stroke-related mortality and a possible increase in stroke incidence.7 8   the stroke council of the american heart association formed an ad hoc writing group to provide a clear and concise overview of the evidence regarding various established and potential stroke risk factors. the writing group was chosen based on expertise in specific subject areas  and it used literature review  reference to previously published guidelines  and expert opinion to summarize existing evidence and formulate recommendations (table 1⇓). view this table:   table 1. levels of evidence and grading of recommendations    as given in tables 2 through 4⇓⇓⇓  risk factors or risk markers for a first stroke were classified according to potential for modification (nonmodifiable  modifiable  or potentially modifiable) and strength of evidence (well documented  less well documented).5 the tables give the estimated prevalence  population attributable risk  relative risk  and risk reduction with treatment for each factor when known. population attributable risk reflects the proportion of ischemic strokes in the population that can be attributed to a particular risk factor and is given by the formula 100×[prevalence(relative risk−1)/prevalence(relative risk−1)+1]). …
4273,global prevalence of anxiety disorders: a systematic review and meta-regression.,background the literature describing the global prevalence of anxiety disorders is highly variable. a systematic review and meta-regression were undertaken to estimate the prevalence of anxiety disorders and to identify factors that may influence these estimates. the findings will inform the new global burden of disease study. method a systematic review identified prevalence studies of anxiety disorders published between 1980 and 2009. electronic databases  reference lists  review articles and monographs were searched and experts then contacted to identify missing studies. substantive and methodological factors associated with inter-study variability were identified through meta-regression analyses and the global prevalence of anxiety disorders was calculated adjusting for study methodology. results the prevalence of anxiety disorders was obtained from 87 studies across 44 countries. estimates of current prevalence ranged between 0.9% and 28.3% and past-year prevalence between 2.4% and 29.8%. substantive factors including gender  age  culture  conflict and economic status  and urbanicity accounted for the greatest proportion of variability. methodological factors in the final multivariate model (prevalence period  number of disorders and diagnostic instrument) explained an additional 13% of variance between studies. the global current prevalence of anxiety disorders adjusted for methodological differences was 7.3% (4.8-10.9%) and ranged from 5.3% (3.5-8.1%) in african cultures to 10.4% (7.0-15.5%) in euro/anglo cultures. conclusions anxiety disorders are common and the substantive and methodological factors identified here explain much of the variability in prevalence estimates. specific attention should be paid to cultural differences in responses to survey instruments for anxiety disorders.
4275,prevention of malaria in long-term travelers.,context long-term travelers  defined here as those traveling for periods of 6 months or longer  face particular challenges regarding malaria prevention. current guidelines for malaria prevention primarily address prevention of plasmodium falciparum infections in short-term travelers. objectives to examine the risk of malaria in long-term travelers  recent developments in personal protective measures  and the safety and tolerability of malaria chemoprophylaxis during long-term use and to consider prevention strategies including continuous chemoprophylaxis  stand-by emergency self-treatment  seasonal prophylaxis  and strategies to prevent primary infection and relapses from p vivax malaria. evidence acquisition comprehensive search of scientific publications including medline via both ovid and pubmed for relevant studies and articles with a cutoff date of july 2006  using the search terms long-term travel and malaria prevention  long-term malaria chemoprophylaxis  and insect repellent and malaria. additional references were obtained from searching the bibliographies of the selected articles  from dissertations  and from the proceedings of relevant conferences on travel medicine. there were no language restrictions. evidence synthesis long-term travelers have a higher risk of malaria than short-term travelers. long-term travelers underuse personal protective measures and adhere poorly to continuous chemoprophylaxis regimens. a number of strategies are used during long-term stays: discontinuation of chemoprophylaxis after the initial period  sequential regimens with different medications for chemoprophylaxis  stand-by emergency self-treatment  and seasonal chemoprophylaxis targeting high-incidence periods or locations. all strategies have advantages and drawbacks. counterfeit drugs sold in countries endemic for malaria pose serious concern for long-term travelers who purchase their medications overseas. vivax malaria causes significant illness in travelers  but relapses of vivax malaria are not prevented with the current first-line chemoprophylaxis regimens. consensus guidelines are needed for prevention of malaria in long-term travelers. conclusions prevention of malaria in long-term travelers is a complex issue and requires expert advice from travel medicine specialists. recommendations for prevention of malaria in long-term travelers must be individualized.
4277,availability of evidence of benefits on overall survival and quality of life of cancer drugs approved by european medicines agency: retrospective cohort study of drug approvals 2009-13,objective to determine the availability of data on overall survival and quality of life benefits of cancer drugs approved in europe. design retrospective cohort study. setting publicly accessible regulatory and scientific reports on cancer approvals by the european medicines agency (ema) from 2009 to 2013.main outcome measures pivotal and postmarketing trials of cancer drugs according to their design features (randomisation  crossover  blinding)  comparators  and endpoints. availability and magnitude of benefit on overall survival or quality of life determined at time of approval and after market entry. validated european society for medical oncology magnitude of clinical benefit scale (esmo-mcbs) used to assess the clinical value of the reported gains in published studies of cancer drugs. results from 2009 to 2013  the ema approved the use of 48 cancer drugs for 68 indications. of these  eight indications (12%) were approved on the basis of a single arm study. at the time of market approval  there was significant prolongation of survival in 24 of the 68 (35%). the magnitude of the benefit on overall survival ranged from 1.0 to 5.8 months (median 2.7 months). at the time of market approval  there was an improvement in quality of life in seven of 68 indications (10%). out of 44 indications for which there was no evidence of a survival gain at the time of market authorisation  in the subsequent postmarketing period there was evidence for extension of life in three (7%) and reported benefit on quality of life in five (11%). of the 68 cancer indications with ema approval  and with a median of 5.4 years' follow-up (minimum 3.3 years  maximum 8.1 years)  only 35 (51%) had shown a significant improvement in survival or quality of life  while 33 (49%) remained uncertain. of 23 indications associated with a survival benefit that could be scored with the esmo-mcbs tool  the benefit was judged to be clinically meaningful in less than half (11/23  48%).conclusions this systematic evaluation of oncology approvals by the ema in 2009-13 shows that most drugs entered the market without evidence of benefit on survival or quality of life. at a minimum of 3.3 years after market entry  there was still no conclusive evidence that these drugs either extended or improved life for most cancer indications. when there were survival gains over existing treatment options or placebo  they were often marginal.
4279,evidence for energy-dependent accumulation of paraquat into rat lung,the herbicide paraquat (n n′-dimethyl 4 4′-bipyridilium) can produce widespread oedema and fibrosis in the human lung after accidental ingestion1–3. in those cases where death occurs after several weeks  there are no apparent pulmonary changes during the first few days following ingestion. animal experiments in a variety of species have shown the lung to be the major target organ4–6. after administration of paraquat to animals  the lung has a high initial concentration and retains paraquat7–9. this retention appears to be related to the development of lung damage7 (l. l. smith and m. s. rose  unpublished work). the mechanism of retention of paraquat by the lung is at present not understood.
4281,epidemiology of surgically managed pelvic organ prolapse and urinary incontinence.,objective to determine the incidence of surgically managed pelvic organ prolapse and urinary incontinence in a population-based cohort  and to describe their clinical characteristics. methods our retrospective cohort study included all patients undergoing surgical treatment for prolapse and incontinence during 1995; all were members of kaiser permanente northwest  which included 149 554 women age 20 or older. a standardized data-collection form was used to review all inpatient and outpatient charts of the 395 women identified. variables examined included age  ethnicity  height  weight  vaginal parity  smoking history  medical history  and surgical history  including the preoperative evaluation  procedure performed  and details of all prior procedures. analysis included calculation of age-specific and cumulative incidences and determination of the number of primary operations compared with repeat operations performed for prolapse or incontinence. results the age-specific incidence increased with advancing age. the lifetime risk of undergoing a single operation for prolapse or incontinence by age 80 was 11.1%. most patients were older  postmenopausal  parous  and overweight. nearly half were current or former smokers and one-fifth had chronic lung disease. reoperation was common (29.2% of cases)  and the time intervals between repeat procedures decreased with each successive repair. conclusion pelvic floor dysfunction is a major health issue for older women  as shown by the 11.1% lifetime risk of undergoing a single operation for pelvic organ prolapse and urinary incontinence  as well as the large proportion of reoperations. our results warrant further epidemiologic research in order to determine the etiology  natural history  and long-term treatment outcomes of these conditions.
4283,abnormal hemoglobins in a quarter million people.,hemolysates of erythrocytes from more than a quarter million people in alabama were electrophoresed on cellulose acetate  ph 8.4  and those samples exhibiting an abnormality were also electrophoresed in citrate agar  ph 6.0. the globin chains of mutants other than hb s and c were electrophoresed in urea-mercaptoethanol buffers at both ph 8.9 and ph 6.0  and 60 of them were also analyzed structurally. of about 6000 samples from whites  only three contained abnormal hemoglobins--hb d los angeles  hb j baltimore  and one unidentified. of 249 000 samples from blacks  about 29 000 contained electrophoretically detectable abnormalities  most of them associated with hb s or c  present in a frequency of about 9% and 3%  respectively. about 1000 samples resolved into patterns of potential clinical significance. twenty other mutant hemoglobins were detected  in various genetic combinations in 164 kindreds; four of these-hb alabama  montgomery  titusville  and mobile--were previously unknown. the methods used are rapid  economical  and well suited for large scale surveys. they provide highly specific characterizations of many mutant hemoglobins  and no discrepancies were found between the presumptive identifications based on these characterizations and the definitive identifications obtained from structural analyses.
4285,cutting edge: candida albicans hyphae formation triggers activation of the nlrp3 inflammasome.,the proinflammatory cytokine il-1beta plays an important role in antifungal immunity; however  the mechanisms by which fungal pathogens trigger il-1beta secretion are unclear. in this study we show that infection with candida albicans is sensed by the nlrp3 inflammasome  resulting in the subsequent release of il-1beta. the ability of c. albicans to switch from a unicellular yeast form into a filamentous form is essential for activation of the nlrp3 inflammasome  as c. albicans mutants incapable of forming hyphae were defective in their ability to induce macrophage il- 1beta secretion. nlrp3-deficient mice also demonstrated increased susceptibility to infection with c. albicans  which is consistent with a key role for nlrp3 in innate immune responses to the pathogen c. albicans.
4287,virus-encoded micrornas.,micrornas (mirnas) are the subject of enormous interest. they are small non-coding rnas that play a regulatory role in numerous and diverse cellular processes such as immune function  apoptosis and tumorigenesis. several virus families have been shown to encode mirnas  and an appreciation for their roles in the viral infectious cycle continues to grow. despite the identification of numerous (>225) viral mirnas  an in depth functional understanding of most virus-encoded mirnas is lacking. here we focus on a few viral mirnas with well-defined functions. we use these examples to extrapolate general themes of viral mirna activities including autoregulation of viral gene expression  avoidance of host defenses  and a likely important role in maintaining latent and persistent infections. we hypothesize that although the molecular mechanisms and machinery are similar  the majority of viral mirnas may utilize a target strategy that differs from host mirnas. that is  many viral mirnas may have evolved to regulate viral-encoded transcripts or networks of host genes that are unique to viral mirnas. included in this latter category is a likely abundant class of viral mirnas that may regulate only one or a few principal host genes. key steps forward for the field are discussed  including the need for additional functional studies that utilize surgical viral mirna mutants combined with relevant models of infection.
4289,two rice gras family genes responsive to n-acetylchitooligosaccharide elicitor are induced by phytoactive gibberellins: evidence for cross-talk between elicitor and gibberellin signaling in rice cells,in this study  we present data showing that two members of the gras family of genes from rice  cigr1 and cigr2(chitin-inducible gibberellin-responsive)  inducible by the potent elicitor n-acetylchitooligosaccharide (gn)  are rapidly induced by exogenous gibberellins. the pattern of mrna accumulation was dependent on the dose and biological activity of the gibberellins  suggesting that the induction of the genes by gibberellin is mediated by a biological receptor capable of specific recognition and signal transduction upon perception of the phytoactive compounds. further pharmacological analysis revealed that the cigr1 and cigr2 mrna accumulation by treatment with gibberellin is dependent upon protein phosphorylation/dephosphorylation events. in rice calli derived from slender rice 1  a constitutive gibberellin-responsive mutant  or d1  a mutant deficient in the α-subunit of the heterotrimeric g-protein  cigr1 and cigr2 were induced by a gn elicitor  yet not by gibberellin. neither gibberellin nor gn showed related activities in defense or development  respectively. these results strongly suggested that the signal transduction cascade from gibberellin is independent of that from gn  and further implied that cigr1 and cigr2 have dual  distinct roles in defense and development.
4291,histone acetylation and deacetylation in yeast,histone acetylation and deacetylation in the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae occur by targeting acetyltransferase and deacetylase enzymes to gene promoters and  in an untargeted and global manner  by affecting most nucleosomes. recently  new roles for histone acetylation have been uncovered  not only in transcription but also in dna replication  repair and heterochromatin formation. interestingly  specific acetylatable lysines can function as binding sites for regulatory factors. moreover  histone deacetylation is not only repressive but can be required for gene activity.
4293,evaluation of systemic amyloidosis by scintigraphy with 123i-labeled serum amyloid p component.,background in systemic amyloidosis the distribution and progression of disease have been difficult to monitor  because they can be demonstrated only by biopsy. serum amyloid p component (sap) is a normal circulating plasma protein that is deposited on amyloid fibrils because of its specific binding affinity for them. we investigated whether labeled sap could be used to locate amyloid deposits. methods purified human sap labeled with iodine-123 was given intravenously to 50 patients with biopsy-proved systemic amyloidosis--25 with the al (primary) type and 25 with the aa (secondary) type--and to 26 control patients with disease and 10 healthy subjects. whole-body images and regional views were obtained after 24 hours and read in a blinded fashion. results in the patients with amyloidosis the 123i-sap was localized rapidly and specifically in amyloid deposits. the scintigraphic images obtained were characteristic and appeared to identify the extent of amyloid deposition in all 50 patients. there was no uptake of the 123i-sap by the control patients and the healthy subjects. in all patients with aa amyloidosis the spleen was affected  whereas the scans showed uptake in the heart  skin  carpal region  and bone marrow only in patients with the al type. positive images were seen in six patients in whom biopsies had been negative or unsuccessful; in all six  amyloid was subsequently found on biopsy or at autopsy. progressive amyloid deposition was observed in 9 of 11 patients studied serially. conclusions scintigraphy after the injection of 123i-sap can be used for diagnosing  locating  and monitoring the extent of systemic amyloidosis.
4295,effects of mal61 and mal62 overexpression on maltose fermentation of baker's yeast in lean dough.,the predominant fermentable sugar in lean dough is maltose. to improve the leavening ability of baker's yeast in lean dough  maltose metabolism should be improved. maltase (alpha-glucosidase  encoded by mal62) and maltose permease (encoded by mal61) are the major factors involved in maltose metabolism. the major rate-limiting factor in maltose metabolism and leavening ability of baker's yeast remains unclear. in this work  mal61 and/or mal62 overexpression strains were constructed to investigate the decisive factor for maltose metabolism of industrial baker's yeast in lean dough. our results show that elevated maltose permease activity by mal61 overexpression yielded less improvement in maltose fermentation compared to elevated maltase activity by mal62 overexpression. significant increase in maltase activity by mal62 overexpression could result in a 44% increase in leavening ability of industrial baker's yeast in lean dough and a 39% increase in maltose metabolism in a medium containing glucose and maltose. thus  maltase was the rate-limiting factor in maltose fermentation of industrial baker's yeast in lean dough. this study lays a foundation for breeding of industrial baker's yeast for quick dough leavening.
4297,integrated genomic profiling of endometrial carcinoma associates aggressive tumors with indicators of pi3 kinase activation.,although 75% of endometrial cancers are treated at an early stage  15% to 20% of these recur. we performed an integrated analysis of genome-wide expression and copy-number data for primary endometrial carcinomas with extensive clinical and histopathological data to detect features predictive of recurrent disease. unsupervised analysis of the expression data distinguished 2 major clusters with strikingly different phenotypes  including significant differences in disease-free survival. to identify possible mechanisms for these differences  we performed a global genomic survey of amplifications  deletions  and loss of heterozygosity  which identified 11 significantly amplified and 13 significantly deleted regions. amplifications of 3q26.32 harboring the oncogene pik3ca were associated with poor prognosis and segregated with the aggressive transcriptional cluster. moreover  samples with pik3ca amplification carried signatures associated with in vitro activation of pi3 kinase (pi3k)  a signature that was shared by aggressive tumors without pik3ca amplification. tumors with loss of pten expression or pik3ca overexpression that did not have pik3ca amplification also shared the pi3k activation signature  high protein expression of the pi3k pathway member stmn1  and an aggressive phenotype in test and validation datasets. however  mutations of pten or pik3ca were not associated with the same expression profile or aggressive phenotype. stmn1 expression had independent prognostic value. the results affirm the utility of systematic characterization of the cancer genome in clinically annotated specimens and suggest the particular importance of the pi3k pathway in patients who have aggressive endometrial cancer.
4299,confusion and memory loss from capsular genu infarction: a thalamocortical disconnection syndrome?,we examined six patients with an abrupt change in behavior after infarction involving the inferior genu of the internal capsule. the acute syndrome featured fluctuating alertness  inattention  memory loss  apathy  abulia  and psychomotor retardation  suggesting frontal lobe dysfunction. contralateral hemiparesis and dysarthria were generally mild  except when the infarct extended into the posterior limb. neuropsychological testing in five patients with left-sided infarcts revealed severe verbal memory loss. additional cognitive deficits consistent with dementia occurred in four patients. a right-sided infarct caused transient impairment in visuospatial memory. functional brain imaging in three patients showed a focal reduction in hemispheric perfusion most prominent in the ipsilateral inferior and medial frontal cortex. we infer that the capsular genu infarct interrupted the inferior and anterior thalamic peduncles  resulting in functional deactivation of the ipsilateral frontal cortex. these observations suggest that one mechanism for cognitive deterioration from a lacunar infarct is thalamocortical disconnection of white-matter tracts  in some instances leading to "strategic-infarct dementia. "
4301,full-length transcriptome assembly from rna-seq data without a reference genome.,massively parallel sequencing of cdna has enabled deep and efficient probing of transcriptomes. current approaches for transcript reconstruction from such data often rely on aligning reads to a reference genome  and are thus unsuitable for samples with a partial or missing reference genome. here we present the trinity method for de novo assembly of full-length transcripts and evaluate it on samples from fission yeast  mouse and whitefly  whose reference genome is not yet available. by efficiently constructing and analyzing sets of de bruijn graphs  trinity fully reconstructs a large fraction of transcripts  including alternatively spliced isoforms and transcripts from recently duplicated genes. compared with other de novo transcriptome assemblers  trinity recovers more full-length transcripts across a broad range of expression levels  with a sensitivity similar to methods that rely on genome alignments. our approach provides a unified solution for transcriptome reconstruction in any sample  especially in the absence of a reference genome.
4303,when is antipsychotic polypharmacy supported by research evidence? implications for qi.,background concurrent use of multiple standing antipsychotics (antipsychotic polypharmacy) is increasingly common among both inpatients and outpatients. although this has often been cited as a potential quality-of-care problem  reviews of research evidence on antipsychotic polypharmacy have not distinguished between appropriate versus inappropriate use. methods a medline search from 1966 to december 2007 was completed to identify studies comparing changes in symptoms  functioning  and/or side effects between patients treated with multiple antipsychotics and patients treated with a single antipsychotic. the studies were reviewed in two groups on the basis of whether prescribing was concordant with guideline recommendations for multiple-antipsychotic use. results a review of the literature  including three randomized controlled trials  found no support for the use of antipsychotic polypharmacy in patients without an established history of treatment resistance to multiple trials of monotherapy. in patients with a history of treatment resistance to multiple monotherapy trials  limited data support antipsychotic polypharmacy  but positive outcomes were primarily found in studies of clozapine augmented with a second-generation antipsychotic. discussion research evidence is consistent with the goal of avoiding antipsychotic polypharmacy in patients who lack guideline-recommended indications for its use. the joint commission is implementing a core measure set for hospital-based inpatient psychiatric services. two of the measures address antipsychotic polypharmacy. the first measure assesses the overall rate. the second measure determines whether clinically appropriate justification has been documented supporting the use of more than one antipsychotic medication.
4305,smooth muscle lineage diversity in the chick embryo. two types of aortic smooth muscle cell differ in growth and receptor-mediated transcriptional responses to transforming growth factor-beta.,lineage analysis studies in the avian embryo have identified two types of smooth muscle cells (smcs) in the tunica media of large elastic arteries; one that originates within the cardiac neural crest and is ectoderm in origin (ect) and another that arises from local mesenchyme of mesodermal origin (mes). to determine if differences in primary embryonic lineage can give rise to smcs with stable differences in growth and differentiation properties  we isolated ect and mes smcs from the day 14 chick embryo aorta. we report that despite different primary embryonic origins  ect and mes smcs express nearly identical levels of seven smc differentiation markers in vitro  consistent with their common smooth muscle developmental fates in vivo. by contrast  ect smcs displayed a greater capacity for growth in serum-free medium than mes smcs  but only under conditions permitting short-range cell-cell interactions. most of the peptide growth factors tested that might account for serum-independent growth (pdgf-aa  pdgf-bb  basic fgf  egf  or activin) stimulated dna synthesis to similar extents in ect and mes smcs. however  we found dramatic  lineage-dependent differences in smc responses to transforming growth factor-beta (tgf-beta). exposure to tgf-beta 1 (0.4 to 400 pmole/liter) consistently increased dna synthesis in ect smcs  whereas in paired cultures of mes smcs  tgf-beta 1 was growth inhibitory. in smc cultures transfected with p3tp-lux  a luciferase reporter controlled by the tgf-beta 1-response elements of the human pai-1 promoter  tgf-beta 1 (120 pm) produced 12 +/- 2-fold increases in luciferase activity in ect smcs and only 3 +/- 1.5-fold increases in mes smcs. analysis of tgf-beta receptor phenotypes by northern blot  radioligand binding  and crosslinking assays showed that ect and mes smcs expressed similar levels of types i  ii  and iii tgf-beta receptors. however  using a polyclonal antibody specific for the chick type ii tgf-beta receptor subunit  we demonstrate that mes smcs produce a fully glycosylated form of this protein while ect smcs elaborate only an unglycosylated type ii tgf-beta receptor. these results show that ect and mes smcs exhibit lineage-dependent differences in growth and receptor-mediated transcriptional responses to at least one important class of smc morphogens and growth modifiers  e.g.  the tgf-betas. our findings suggest that different smc populations within a common vessel wall may respond in lineage-dependent ways to signals that direct formation of the tunica media in the embryo and to factors involved in the progression of vascular disease later in life.
4307,amylase  lipase  and acute pancreatitis in people with type 2 diabetes treated with liraglutide: results from the leader randomized trial.,objective to evaluate serum amylase and lipase levels and the rate of acute pancreatitis in patients with type 2 diabetes and high cardiovascular risk randomized to liraglutide or placebo and observed for 3.5-5.0 years. research design and methods a total of 9 340 patients with type 2 diabetes were randomized to either liraglutide or placebo (median observation time 3.84 years). fasting serum lipase and amylase were monitored. acute pancreatitis was adjudicated in a blinded manner. results compared with the placebo group  liraglutide-treated patients had increases in serum lipase and amylase of 28.0% and 7.0%  respectively. levels were increased at 6 months and then remained stable. during the study  18 (0.4% [1.1 events/1 000 patient-years of observation] [pyo]) liraglutide-treated and 23 (0.5% [1.7 events/1 000 pyo]) placebo patients had acute pancreatitis confirmed by adjudication. most acute pancreatitis cases occurred ≥12 months after randomization. liraglutide-treated patients with prior history of pancreatitis (n = 147) were not more likely to develop acute pancreatitis than similar patients in the placebo group (n = 120). elevations of amylase and lipase levels did not predict future risk of acute pancreatitis (positive predictive value <1.0%) in patients treated with liraglutide. conclusions in a population with type 2 diabetes at high cardiovascular risk  there were numerically fewer events of acute pancreatitis among liraglutide-treated patients (regardless of previous history of pancreatitis) compared with the placebo group. liraglutide was associated with increases in serum lipase and amylase  which were not predictive of an event of subsequent acute pancreatitis.
4309,a central role for central tolerance.,recent elucidation of the role of central tolerance in preventing organ-specific autoimmunity has changed our concepts of self/nonself discrimination. this paradigmatic shift is largely attributable to the discovery of promiscuous expression of tissue-restricted self-antigens (tras) by medullary thymic epithelial cells (mtecs). tra expression in mtecs mirrors virtually all tissues of the body  irrespective of developmental or spatio-temporal expression patterns. this review summarizes current knowledge on the cellular and molecular regulation of tra expression in mtecs  outlines relevant mechanisms of antigen presentation and modes of tolerance induction  and discusses implications for the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases and other biological processes such as fertility  pregnancy  puberty  and tumor defense.
4311,alzheimer's disease: the two-hit hypothesis.,there are many lines of evidence showing that oxidative stress and aberrant mitogenic changes have important roles in the pathogenesis of alzheimer's disease (ad). however  although both oxidative stress and cell cycle-related abnormalities are early events  occurring before any cytopathology  the relation between these two events  and their role in pathophysiology was  until recently  unclear. however  on the basis of studies of mitogenic and oxidative stress signalling pathways in ad  we proposed a "two-hit hypothesis" which states that although either oxidative stress or abnormalities in mitotic signalling can independently serve as initiators  both processes are necessary to propagate disease pathogenesis. in this paper  we summarise evidence for oxidative stress and abnormal mitotic alterations in ad and explain the two-hit hypothesis by describing how both mechanisms are necessary and invariant features of disease.
4313,antigen presentation by major histocompatibility complex class i-b molecules.,class i-b genes constitute the majority of mhc class i loci. these monomorphic or oligomorphic molecules have been described in many organisms; they are best characterized in the mouse  which contains a substantial number of potentially intact genes. two main characteristics differentiate class i-b from class i-a molecules: limited polymorphism and lower cell surface expression. these distinguishing features suggest possible generalizations regarding the evolution and function of this class. additionally  class i-b proteins tend to have shorter cytoplasmic domains or in some cases may be secreted or may substitute a lipid anchor for the transmembrane domain. some are also expressed in a limited distribution of cells or tissues. at least six mouse mhc class i-b molecules have been shown to present antigens to alpha beta or gamma delta t cells. recent advances have provided insight into the physiological function of h-2m3a and have defined the natural peptide-binding motif of qa-2. in addition  significant progress has been made toward better understanding of other class i-b molecules  including qa-1  tl  hla-e  hla-g  and the mhc-unlinked class i molecule cd1. we begin this review  however  by arguing that the dichotomous categorization of mhc genes as class i-a and i-b is conceptually misleading  despite its historical basis and practical usefulness. with these reservations in mind  we then discuss antigen presentation by mhc class i-b molecules with particular attention to their structure  polymorphism  requirements for peptide antigen binding and tissue expression.
4315,effect of clinical guidelines on medical practice: a systematic review of rigorous evaluations.,although interest in clinical guidelines has never been greater  uncertainty persists about whether they are effective. the debate has been hampered by the lack of a rigorous overview. we have identified 59 published evaluations of clinical guidelines that met defined criteria for scientific rigour; 24 investigated guidelines for specific clinical conditions  27 studied preventive care  and 8 looked at guidelines for prescribing or for support services. all but 4 of these studies detected significant improvements in the process of care after the introduction of guidelines and all but 2 of the 11 studies that assessed the outcome of care reported significant improvements. we conclude that explicit guidelines do improve clinical practice  when introduced in the context of rigorous evaluations. however  the size of the improvements in performance varied considerably.
4317,protein s-nitrosylation: a physiological signal for neuronal nitric oxide,nitric oxide (no) has been linked to numerous physiological and pathophysiological events that are not readily explained by the well established effects of no on soluble guanylyl cyclase. exogenous no s-nitrosylates cysteine residues in proteins  but whether this is an important function of endogenous no is unclear. here  using a new proteomic approach  we identify a population of proteins that are endogenously s-nitrosylated  and demonstrate the loss of this modification in mice harbouring a genomic deletion of neuronal no synthase (nnos). targets of no include metabolic  structural and signalling proteins that may be effectors for neuronally generated no. these findings establish protein s-nitrosylation as a physiological signalling mechanism for nnos.
4319,production of tyrosol by candida albicans biofilms and its role in quorum sensing and biofilm development.,tyrosol and farnesol are quorum-sensing molecules produced by candida albicans which accelerate and block  respectively  the morphological transition from yeasts to hyphae. in this study  we have investigated the secretion of tyrosol by c. albicans and explored its likely role in biofilm development. both planktonic (suspended) cells and biofilms of four c. albicans strains  including three mutants with defined defects in the efg 1 and cph 1 morphogenetic signaling pathways  synthesized extracellular tyrosol during growth at 37 degrees c. there was a correlation between tyrosol production and biomass for both cell types. however  biofilm cells secreted at least 50% more tyrosol than did planktonic cells when tyrosol production was related to cell dry weight. the addition of exogenous farnesol to a wild-type strain inhibited biofilm formation by up to 33% after 48 h. exogenous tyrosol appeared to have no effect  but scanning electron microscopy revealed that tyrosol stimulated hypha production during the early stages (1 to 6 h) of biofilm development. experiments involving the simultaneous addition of tyrosol and farnesol at different concentrations suggested that the action of farnesol was dominant  and 48-h biofilms formed in the presence of both compounds consisted almost entirely of yeast cells. when biofilm supernatants were tested for their abilities to inhibit or enhance germ tube formation by planktonic cells  the results indicated that tyrosol activity exceeds that of farnesol after 14 h  but not after 24 h  and that farnesol activity increases significantly during the later stages (48 to 72 h) of biofilm development. overall  our results support the conclusion that tyrosol acts as a quorum-sensing molecule for biofilms as well as for planktonic cells and that its action is most significant during the early and intermediate stages of biofilm formation.
4321,fbw7 regulates endothelial functions by targeting klf2 for ubiquitination and degradation,f-box and wd repeat domain-containing 7 (fbw7)  the substrate-binding subunit of e3 ubiquitin ligase scffbw7 (a complex of skp1  cullin-1 and fbw7)  plays important roles in various physiological and pathological processes. although fbw7 is required for vascular development  its function in the endothelium remains to be investigated. in this study  we show that fbw7 is an important regulator of endothelial functions  including angiogenesis  leukocyte adhesion and the endothelial barrier integrity. using rna interference  we found that the depletion of fbw7 markedly impairs angiogenesis in vitro and in vivo. we identified the zinc finger transcription factor krüppel-like factor 2 (klf2) as a physiological target of fbw7 in endothelial cells. knockdown of fbw7 expression resulted in the accumulation of endogenous klf2 protein in endothelial cells. fbw7-mediated klf2 destruction was shown to depend on the phosphorylation of klf2 via glycogen synthase kinase-3 (gsk3) at two conserved phosphodegrons. mutating these phosphodegron motifs abolished the fbw7-mediated degradation and ubiquitination of klf2. the sirna-mediated knockdown of fbw7 showed that klf2 is an essential target of fbw7 in the regulation of endothelial functions. moreover  fbw7-mediated klf2 degradation was shown to be critical for angiogenesis in teratomas and in zebrafish development. taken together  our study suggests a role for fbw7 in the processes of endothelial cell migration  angiogenesis  inflammation and barrier integrity  and provides novel insights into the regulation of klf2 stability in vivo.
4323,optimal therapy for reduction of lipoprotein(a).,what is known and objective there is a growing body of experimental and clinical evidence for the atherogenic and pro-thrombotic potential of lipoprotein(a) [lp(a)]  as well as for its causative role in coronary heart disease and stroke. we comment on novel strategies for reducing lp(a) levels. comment irrespective of the underlying biological mechanisms explaining the athero-thrombotic potential of this lipoprotein  most work has focused on the identification of suitable therapies for hyperlipoproteinemia(a). these include apheresis techniques  nicotinic acid and statins. none of these strategies have been shown to be definitely effective or convenient for the patient and new strategies are being attempted. promising results are emerging with therapeutic interventions targeting the 'inflammatory pathways' by inhibition of interleukin-6 (il-6) signalling with natural compounds (e.g.  ginko biloba) or the il-6 receptor antibody tocilizumab. these may both lower lp(a) and cardiovascular risk of the patients. besides inhibiting platelet function  antiplatelet therapy with aspirin may also decrease the plasma concentration of lp(a) and modulate its influence on platelets. what is new and conclusion we highlight the inadequacy of current approaches for lowering lp(a) and draw attention to novel insights that may lead to better treatment.
4325,the impact of homelessness on children.,this article reviews and critiques community-based research on the effects of homelessness on children. homeless children confront serious threats to their ability to succeed and their future well-being. of particular concern are health problems  hunger  poor nutrition  developmental delays  anxiety  depression  behavioral problems  and educational underachievement. factors that may mediate the observed outcomes include inadequate shelter conditions  instability in residences and shelters  inadequate services  and barriers to accessing services that are available. public policy initiatives are needed to meet the needs of homeless children.
4327,golden hours in severe paraquat poisoning-the role of early haemoperfusion therapy.,introduction paraquat is a commonly ingested poison especially in southern india. there is no antidote for paraquat poison and consumption is often fatal. the usual cause of death is either acute lung injury or multi-organ failure. aim to evaluate the role of early haemoperfusion as a therapy in paraquat poisoned patients. materials and methods this study was a retrospective analysis of patients admitted to a tertiary medical college hospital between january 2012 and december 2015 with history of paraquat consumption  comparing outcomes in those who received only gastric lavage and symptomatic treatment with those who received haemoperfusion as a therapy. the role of early haemoperfusion (≤ 6 hours) vs late haemoperfusion (> 6 hours) in paraquat poisoned patients was also compared. the data of these patients was extracted and analysed with respect to age  sex  mode of treatment  the outcome in patients who received early and late haemoperfusion. results a total of 101 patients were studied out of which 62 died. deaths were more in those patients who received only gastric lavage with symptomatic treatment as therapy compared to those who received haemoperfusion i.e.  92.1% vs 42.9% respectively. we also found that  the survival rate was better in patients who received early haemoperfusion. conclusion early haemoperfusion was helpful in the management of severe paraquat poisoning and improved the survival rate in these patients.
4329,desferrioxamine treatment of porphyria cutanea tarda in a patient with hiv and chronic renal failure.,porphyria cutanea tarda (pct) can occur in hiv patients. current evidence suggests that hiv infection may interfere with the hepatic cytochrome oxidase system  leading to porphyrin metabolism impairment. moreover  chronic hemodialysis in renal failure may be a risk factor for pct. in addition to the contributory factors for pct associated to hiv infection  it is possible that porphyrin accumulation secondary to renal failure may play a role in the expression of this disease. we report a case of pct in an hiv-1 infected patient under blood dialysis  refractory to antimalarials and controlled with desferrioxamine.
4331,isolation of major pancreatic cell types and long-term culture-initiating cells using novel human surface markers.,we have developed a novel panel of cell-surface markers for the isolation and study of all major cell types of the human pancreas. hybridomas were selected after subtractive immunization of balb/c mice with intact or dissociated human islets and assessed for cell-type specificity and cell-surface reactivity by immunohistochemistry and flow cytometry. antibodies were identified by specific binding of surface antigens on islet (panendocrine or alpha-specific) and nonislet pancreatic cell subsets (exocrine and duct). these antibodies were used individually or in combination to isolate populations of alpha  beta  exocrine  or duct cells from primary human pancreas by facs and to characterize the detailed cell composition of human islet preparations. they were also employed to show that human islet expansion cultures originated from nonendocrine cells and that insulin expression levels could be increased to up to 1% of normal islet cells by subpopulation sorting and overexpression of the transcription factors pdx-1 and ngn3  an improvement over previous results with this culture system. these methods permit the analysis and isolation of functionally distinct pancreatic cell populations with potential for cell therapy.
4333,effect of homocysteine lowering on mortality and vascular disease in advanced chronic kidney disease and end-stage renal disease: a randomized controlled trial.,context high plasma homocysteine levels are a risk factor for mortality and vascular disease in observational studies of patients with chronic kidney disease. folic acid and b vitamins decrease homocysteine levels in this population but whether they lower mortality is unknown. objective to determine whether high doses of folic acid and b vitamins administered daily reduce mortality in patients with chronic kidney disease. design  setting  and participants double-blind randomized controlled trial (2001-2006) in 36 us department of veterans affairs medical centers. median follow-up was 3.2 years for 2056 participants aged 21 years or older with advanced chronic kidney disease (estimated creatinine clearance < or =30 ml/min) (n = 1305) or end-stage renal disease (n = 751) and high homocysteine levels (> or = 15 micromol/l). intervention participants received a daily capsule containing 40 mg of folic acid  100 mg of pyridoxine hydrochloride (vitamin b6)  and 2 mg of cyanocobalamin (vitamin b12) or a placebo. main outcome measures the primary outcome was all-cause mortality. secondary outcomes included myocardial infarction (mi)  stroke  amputation of all or part of a lower extremity  a composite of these 3 plus all-cause mortality  time to initiation of dialysis  and time to thrombosis of arteriovenous access in hemodialysis patients. results mean baseline homocysteine level was 24.0 micromol/l in the vitamin group and 24.2 micromol/l in the placebo group. it was lowered 6.3 micromol/l (25.8%; p < .001) in the vitamin group and 0.4 micromol/l (1.7%; p = .14) in the placebo group at 3 months  but there was no significant effect on mortality (448 vitamin group deaths vs 436 placebo group deaths) (hazard ratio [hr]  1.04; 95% ci  0.91-1.18). no significant effects were demonstrated for secondary outcomes or adverse events: there were 129 mis in the vitamin group vs 150 for placebo (hr  0.86; 95% ci  0.67-1.08)  37 strokes in the vitamin group vs 41 for placebo (hr  0.90; 95% ci  0.58-1.40)  and 60 amputations in the vitamin group vs 53 for placebo (hr  1.14; 95% ci  0.79-1.64). in addition  the composite of mi  stroke  and amputations plus mortality (p = .85)  time to dialysis (p = .38)  and time to thrombosis in hemodialysis patients (p = .97) did not differ between the vitamin and placebo groups. conclusion treatment with high doses of folic acid and b vitamins did not improve survival or reduce the incidence of vascular disease in patients with advanced chronic kidney disease or end-stage renal disease. trial registration clinicaltrials.gov identifier: nct00032435.
4335,trabecular bone score as an indicator for skeletal deterioration in diabetes.,context trabecular bone score (tbs) is a novel texture index that evaluates the pixel gray-level variations in lumbar spine dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry images and is related to bone microarchitecture independent of bone mineral density (bmd). objective we investigated lumbar spine tbs as an indicator for skeletal deterioration in diabetes. design and setting cross-sectional data were collected from subjects participating in an ongoing prospective  community-based  cohort study from 2009 to 2010. participants we included 1229 men and 1529 postmenopausal women older than 50 years in the ansung cohort. outcome measures biochemical parameters  lumbar spine tbs  and bmd from dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry images were measured. results lumbar spine tbs was lower in men with diabetes than in nondiabetic men (1.287 ± 0.005 vs 1.316 ± 0.003  p < .001)  whereas lumbar spine bmd was higher in men with diabetes (1.135 ± 0.010 vs 1.088 ± 0.006 g/cm(2)). lumbar spine tbs was lower in women with diabetes than in nondiabetic women only in an unadjusted model (1.333 ± 0.004 vs 1.353 ± 0.003). however  women younger than 65 years (n = 707) with diabetes had a lower tbs than those without diabetes  even after adjusted for covariates (p < .001). diabetes was not associated with bmd at femur sites in both genders. tbs was negatively correlated with glycated hemoglobin  fasting plasma glucose  fasting insulin  and homeostasis model assessment for insulin resistance but not with homeostasis model assessment for β-cell function in both genders. conclusions the inverse association between lumbar spine tbs and insulin resistance may make it an indicator for determining skeletal deterioration in diabetic patients who have high bmd.
4337,class iii pi3k vps34 plays an essential role in autophagy and in heart and liver function.,a critical regulator of autophagy is the class iii pi3k vps34 (also called pik3c3). although vps34 is known to play an essential role in autophagy in yeast  its role in mammals remains elusive. to elucidate the physiological function of vps34 and to determine its precise role in autophagy  we have generated vps34(f/f) mice  in which expression of cre recombinase results in a deletion of exon 4 of vps34 and a frame shift causing a deletion of 755 of the 887 amino acids of vps34. acute ablation of vps34 in mefs upon adenoviral cre infection results in a diminishment of localized generation of phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate and blockade of both endocytic and autophagic degradation. starvation-induced autophagosome formation is blocked in both vps34-null mefs and liver. liver-specific albumin-cre;vps34(f/f) mice developed hepatomegaly and hepatic steatosis  and impaired protein turnover. ablation of vps34 in the heart of muscle creatine kinase-cre;vps34(f/f) mice led to cardiomegaly and decreased contractility. in addition  while amino acid-stimulated mtor activation was suppressed in the absence of vps34  the steady-state level of mtor signaling was not affected in vps34-null mefs  liver  or cardiomyocytes. taken together  our results indicate that vps34 plays an essential role in regulating functional autophagy and is indispensable for normal liver and heart function.
4339,recipient-type specific cd4+cd25+ regulatory t cells favor immune reconstitution and control graft-versus-host disease while maintaining graft-versus-leukemia.,cd4+cd25+ regulatory t cells (treg's) play a pivotal role in preventing organ-specific autoimmune diseases and in inducing tolerance to allogeneic organ transplants. we and others recently demonstrated that high numbers of treg's can also modulate graft-versus-host disease (gvhd) if administered in conjunction with allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in mice. in a clinical setting  it would be impossible to obtain enough freshly purified treg's from a single donor to have a therapeutic effect. thus  we performed regulatory t cell expansion ex vivo by stimulation with allogeneic apcs  which has the additional effect of producing alloantigen-specific regulatory t cells. here we show that regulatory t cells specific for recipient-type alloantigens control gvhd while favoring immune reconstitution. irrelevant regulatory t cells only mediate a partial protection from gvhd. preferential survival of specific regulatory t cells  but not of irrelevant regulatory t cells  was observed in grafted animals. additionally  the use of specific regulatory t cells was compatible with some form of graft-versus-tumor activity. these data suggest that recipient-type specific treg's could be preferentially used in the control of gvhd in future clinical trials.
4341,the relationship of the level of cyclic amp to differentiation in primary cultures of chick muscle cells.,abstract the effect of increased levels of camp upon the differentiation of primary cultures of chick myo blasts has been investigated. 0.1 mm but 2 camp or 1 mm 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine was added to the cultures 24 h after plating and maintained throughout the 70 h period of culture examined. both reagents were found to markedly delay the time of fusion of the myoblasts but had no observable effect upon the increase in activity of creatine phosphokinase. morphological examination of the cells revealed no difference in the relative numbers of myoblasts and fibroblasts between the control  but 2 camp and 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine cultures  but the latter reagent appeared to cause some inhibition of cell proliferation.
4343,induction of circadian gene expression in human subcutaneous adipose-derived stem cells.,objective genes encoding the circadian transcriptional apparatus exhibit robust oscillatory expression in murine adipose tissues. this study tests the hypothesis that human subcutaneous adipose-derived stem cells (ascs) provide an in vitro model in which to monitor the activity of the core circadian transcriptional apparatus. research methods and procedures primary cultures of undifferentiated or adipocyte-differentiated ascs were treated with dexamethasone  rosiglitazone  or 30% fetal bovine serum. the response of undifferentiated ascs to dexamethasone was further evaluated in the presence of lithium chloride. lithium inhibits glycogen synthase kinase 3  a key component of the circadian apparatus. total rna was harvested at 4-hour intervals over 48 hours and examined by real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (rt-pcr). results adipocyte-differentiated cells responded more rapidly to treatments than their donor-matched undifferentiated controls; however  the period of the circadian gene oscillation was longer in the adipocyte-differentiated cells. dexamethasone generated circadian gene expression patterns with mean periods of 25.4 and 26.7 hours in undifferentiated and adipocyte-differentiated ascs  respectively. both rosiglitazone and serum shock generated a significantly longer period in adipocyte-differentiated ascs relative to undifferentiated ascs. the bmal1 profile was phase-shifted by approximately 8 to 12 hours relative to per1  per3  and cry2  consistent with their expression in vivo. lithium chloride inhibited adipogenesis and significantly lengthened the period of per3 and rev-erbalpha gene expression profiles by >5 hours in dexamethasone-activated undifferentiated ascs. discussion these results support the initial hypothesis and validate ascs as an in vitro model for the analysis of circadian biology in human adipose tissue.
4345,programmed cell death pathways in cancer: a review of apoptosis  autophagy and programmed necrosis.,programmed cell death (pcd)  referring to apoptosis  autophagy and programmed necrosis  is proposed to be death of a cell in any pathological format  when mediated by an intracellular program. these three forms of pcd may jointly decide the fate of cells of malignant neoplasms; apoptosis and programmed necrosis invariably contribute to cell death  whereas autophagy can play either pro-survival or pro-death roles. recent bulk of accumulating evidence has contributed to a wealth of knowledge facilitating better understanding of cancer initiation and progression with the three distinctive types of cell death. to be able to decipher pcd signalling pathways may aid development of new targeted anti-cancer therapeutic strategies. thus in this review  we present a brief outline of apoptosis  autophagy and programmed necrosis pathways and apoptosis-related microrna regulation  in cancer. taken together  understanding pcd and the complex interplay between apoptosis  autophagy and programmed necrosis may ultimately allow scientists and clinicians to harness the three types of pcd for discovery of further novel drug targets  in the future cancer treatment.
4347,the oncogenic microrna mir-22 targets the tet2 tumor suppressor to promote hematopoietic stem cell self-renewal and transformation.,micrornas are frequently deregulated in cancer. here we show that mir-22 is upregulated in myelodysplastic syndrome (mds) and leukemia and its aberrant expression correlates with poor survival. to explore its role in hematopoietic stem cell function and malignancy  we generated transgenic mice conditionally expressing mir-22 in the hematopoietic compartment. these mice displayed reduced levels of global 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5-hmc) and increased hematopoietic stem cell self-renewal accompanied by defective differentiation. conversely  mir-22 inhibition blocked proliferation in both mouse and human leukemic cells. over time  mir-22 transgenic mice developed mds and hematological malignancies. we also identify tet2 as a key target of mir-22 in this context. ectopic expression of tet2 suppressed the mir-22-induced phenotypes. downregulation of tet2 protein also correlated with poor clinical outcomes and mir-22 overexpression in mds patients. our results therefore identify mir-22 as a potent proto-oncogene and suggest that aberrations in the mir-22/tet2 regulatory network are common in hematopoietic malignancies.
4349,the complete primary structure of the spermadhesin awn  a zona pellucida-binding protein isolated from boar spermatozoa.,awn is a boar protein which originates in secretions of the male accessory glands and which becomes sperm surface-associated upon ejaculation. it is one of the components thought to mediate sperm adhesion to the egg's zona pellucida through a carbohydrate-recognition mechanism. awn may  thus  participate in the initial events of fertilization in the pig. in this report we describe its complete primary structure by combination of protein-chemical and mass spectrometric methods. awn exists as two isoforms  awn-1 and awn-2  which differ in that awn-2 is n-terminally acetylated. the amino acid sequence of awn contains 133 amino acid residues and two disulphide bridges between nearest-neighbour cysteine residues. analysis of the amino acid sequence of the awn proteins showed significant similarity only to aqn-1 and aqn-3  two other boar spermadhesins.
4351,benzodiazepines and injurious falls in community dwelling elders.,background benzodiazepines are frequently used medications in the elderly  in whom they are associated with an increased risk of falling  with sometimes dire consequences. objective to estimate the impact of benzodiazepine-associated injurious falls in a population of elderly persons. method a nested case-control study was conducted using data collected during 10 years of follow-up of the french paquid (personnes agées quid) community-based cohort. the main outcome measure was the occurrence of an injurious fall  which was defined as a fall resulting in hospitalization  fracture  head trauma or death. controls (3 : 1) were frequency-matched to cases. benzodiazepine exposure was the use of benzodiazepines over the previous 2 weeks reported at the follow-up visit preceding the fall. results benzodiazepine use was significantly associated with the occurrence of injurious falls  with a significant interaction with age. the adjusted odds ratio for injurious falls in subjects exposed to benzodiazepines was 2.2 (95% ci 1.4  3.4) in subjects aged > or = 80 years and 1.3 (95% ci 0.9  1.9) in subjects aged <80 years. the population attributable risk for injurious falls in subjects exposed to benzodiazepines was 28.1% (95% ci 16.7  43.2) for subjects aged > or =80 years. the incidence of injurious falls in subjects aged > or = 80 years exposed to benzodiazepines in the paquid cohort was 2.8/100 person-years. over 9% of these falls were fatal. according to these results and to recent population estimates  benzodiazepine use could be held responsible for almost 20 000 injurious falls in subjects aged > or = 80 years every year in france  and for nearly 1800 deaths. conclusion given the considerable morbidity and mortality associated with benzodiazepine use and the fact that existing good practice guidelines on benzodiazepines have not been effective in preventing their misuse (possibly because they have not been applied)  new methods for limiting use of benzodiazepines in the elderly need to be found.
4353,kinesin-2 controls development and patterning of the vertebrate skeleton by hedgehog- and gli3-dependent mechanisms.,hedgehog signaling plays an essential role in patterning of the vertebrate skeleton. here we demonstrate that conditional inactivation of the kif3a subunit of the kinesin-2 intraflagellar transport motor in mesenchymal skeletal progenitor cells results in severe patterning defects in the craniofacial area  the formation of split sternum and the development of polydactyly. these deformities are reminiscent of those previously described in mice with deregulated hedgehog signaling. we show that in kif3a-deficient mesenchymal tissues both the repressor function of gli3 transcription factor and the activation of the shh transcriptional targets ptch and gli1 are compromised. quantitative analysis of gene expression demonstrates that the gli1 transcript level is dramatically reduced  whereas gli3 expression is not significantly affected by kinesin-2 depletion. however  the motor appears to be required for the efficient cleavage of the full-length gli3 transcription factor into a repressor form.
4355,pathology of postprimary tuberculosis in humans and mice: contradiction of long-held beliefs.,tuberculosis remains one of the world's leading infectious causes of death. approximately 80% of all disease is due to postprimary (secondary) tuberculosis in the lung. unfortunately  tissues of developing lesions are seldom available and there are no recognized models of postprimary tuberculosis. in the preantibiotic era when tissues were more abundant  several investigators described early postprimary tuberculosis as a lipid pneumonia quite different from the caseating granulomas commonly described today. we used histopathologic  immunohistochemical and acid fast stains to examine tissues from several people with untreated primary and postprimary tuberculosis and compared the findings with those of mice with reactivation tuberculosis. the results confirmed that developing postprimary tuberculosis begins as a lipid pneumonia accompanied by bronchial obstruction in which infection is restricted to foamy alveolar macrophages. cavities result from a combination of caseation of tuberculous pneumonia and microvascular occlusion characteristic of delayed type hypersensitivity (dth). reactivation tuberculosis in the mouse begins as a similar tuberculous lipid pneumonia with bronchial obstruction and evidence for participation of dth. developing necrosis in both species is associated with localization of organisms within lipid droplets. these results suggest that reactivation tuberculosis in mice is a valuable model of developing human postprimary tuberculosis.
4357,fingolimod provides long-term protection in rodent models of cerebral ischemia.,objective the sphingosine-1-phosphate (s1p) receptor agonist fingolimod (fty720)  that has shown efficacy in advanced multiple sclerosis clinical trials  decreases reperfusion injury in heart  liver  and kidney. we therefore tested the therapeutic effects of fingolimod in several rodent models of focal cerebral ischemia. to assess the translational significance of these findings  we asked whether fingolimod improved long-term behavioral outcomes  whether delayed treatment was still effective  and whether neuroprotection can be obtained in a second species. methods we used rodent models of middle cerebral artery occlusion and cell-culture models of neurotoxicity and inflammation to examine the therapeutic potential and mechanisms of neuroprotection by fingolimod. results in a transient mouse model  fingolimod reduced infarct size  neurological deficit  edema  and the number of dying cells in the core and periinfarct area. neuroprotection was accompanied by decreased inflammation  as fingolimod-treated mice had fewer activated neutrophils  microglia/macrophages  and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (icam-1)-positive blood vessels. fingolimod-treated mice showed a smaller infarct and performed better in behavioral tests up to 15 days after ischemia. reduced infarct was observed in a permanent model even when mice were treated 4 hours after ischemic onset. fingolimod also decreased infarct size in a rat model of focal ischemia. fingolimod did not protect primary neurons against glutamate excitotoxicity or hydrogen peroxide  but decreased icam-1 expression in brain endothelial cells stimulated by tumor necrosis factor alpha. interpretation these findings suggest that anti-inflammatory mechanisms  and possibly vasculoprotection  rather than direct effects on neurons  underlie the beneficial effects of fingolimod after stroke. s1p receptors are a highly promising target in stroke treatment.
4359,"sandwich"-type immunoassay of carcinoembryonic antigen in patients receiving murine monoclonal antibodies for diagnosis and therapy.,measurements of carcinoembryonic antigen (cea) in blood increased dramatically in some patients who were receiving injections of monoclonal antibody. cea titers were measured with a monoclonal antibody-based double-determinant enzyme immunoassay in which untreated plasma specimens were diluted with an equal volume of buffer containing mouse serum. increasing cea titers were accompanied by the appearance and coincident increase in titers of human antibody against mouse ig (hama). adsorption of these sera with solid-phase anti-human igg or protein a restored antigen titers to pretreatment values; evidently the serum factor eliciting false-positive cea titers was most probably hama. neither addition of undiluted mouse serum to the assay mixture nor pretreatment by heating plasma specimens to 70 degrees c effectively abolished hama interference. by contrast  protein precipitation with polyethylene glycol (130 g/l) or heating plasma samples to 90 degrees c eliminated false-positive titers caused by hama  but did not reduce authentic cea titers.
4361,thioredoxin mediates oxidation-dependent phosphorylation of crmp2 and growth cone collapse.,semaphorin3a (sema3a) is a repulsive guidance molecule for axons  which acts by inducing growth cone collapse through phosphorylation of crmp2 (collapsin response mediator protein 2). here  we show a role for crmp2 oxidation and thioredoxin (trx) in the regulation of crmp2 phosphorylation and growth cone collapse. sema3a stimulation generated hydrogen peroxide (h2o2) through mical (molecule interacting with casl) and oxidized crmp2  enabling it to form a disulfide-linked homodimer through cysteine-504. oxidized crmp2 then formed a transient disulfide-linked complex with trx  which stimulated crmp2 phosphorylation by glycogen synthase kinase-3  leading to growth cone collapse. we also reconstituted oxidation-dependent phosphorylation of crmp2 in vitro  using a limited set of purified proteins. our results not only clarify the importance of h2o2 and crmp2 oxidation in sema3a-induced growth cone collapse but also indicate an unappreciated role for trx in linking crmp2 oxidation to phosphorylation.
4363,interactive effects of oligofructose and obesity predisposition on gut hormones and microbiota in diet-induced obese rats.,objective oligofructose (ofs) is a prebiotic that reduces energy intake and fat mass via changes in gut satiety hormones and microbiota. the effects of ofs may vary depending on predisposition to obesity. the aim of this study was to examine the effect of ofs in diet-induced obese (dio) and diet-resistant (dr) rats. methods adult  male dio  and dr rats were randomized to: high-fat/high-sucrose (hfs) diet or hfs diet + 10% ofs for 6 weeks. body composition  food intake  gut microbiota  plasma gut hormones  and cannabinoid cb(1) receptor expression in the nodose ganglia were measured. results ofs reduced body weight  energy intake  and fat mass in both phenotypes (p < 0.05). select gut microbiota differed in dio versus dr rats (p < 0.05)  the differences being eliminated by ofs. ofs did not modify plasma ghrelin or cb(1) expression in nodose ganglia  but plasma levels of gip were reduced and pyy were elevated (p < 0.05) by ofs. conclusions ofs was able to reduce body weight and adiposity in both prone and resistant obese phenotypes. ofs-induced changes in gut microbiota profiles in dio and dr rats  along with changes in gut hormone levels  likely contribute to the sustained lower body weights.
4365,immunology of the tick-host interaction and the control of ticks and tick-borne diseases.,the first experimental vaccination against ticks was carried out 60 years ago. since then  progress has been slow  although the recent commercial release of a recombinant vaccine against boophilus microplus is significant. the nature of naturally acquired protective immunity against ticks is poorly understood  particularly in the important  domesticated ruminant hosts. characterization of the antigens of naturally acquired immunity remains limited  although more has been achieved with 'concealed' antigens. crucial questions remain about the true impact of tick-induced immunosuppression and the effect of immunity on the transmission of tick-borne diseases  despite some fascinating and important recent results  as discussed here by peter willadsen and frans jongejan.
4367,the role of oral antidiabetic agents: why and when to use an early-phase insulin secretion agent in type ii diabetes mellitus,abstract evidence obtained in the 1990's strongly supports the notion that glycaemic control is important not only in type i (insulin-dependent)  but also in type ii (non-insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus. although measurement of hba1c is the standard for assessing the effect of glucose control in the occurrence and prevention of diabetic sequelae  more recent evidence indicates that other glucose parameters are also important. postchallenge and postprandial hyperglycaemic peaks seem to be prospective determinants of vascular damage in early type ii diabetes. currently  there is no overall accepted standard approach for the pharmacological management of type ii diabetes. the united kingdom prospective diabetes study has shown that reaching a near-normal glycaemic target is critically important and the pharmacotherapy of this progressive disease is difficult. loss of endogenous insulin secretion has been substantiated to cause the progression of type ii diabetes in the united kingdom prospective diabetes study. early insulinization  however  was not advantageous over other forms of therapy. the advent of polypharmacy in recent years has greatly strengthened the treatment of this disease. this synergy has been extended of late with the development of early-phase insulin secretion agents. two such agents  nateglinide and repaglinide  can be used to reduce mealtime glucose excursions and hba1c as monotherapy  and in combination with metformin; their antidiabetic potential is similar to the combination treatment with glibenclamide and metformin. additional substantiation of their long-term effect on improving life expectancy and reducing diabetic complications in type ii diabetic patients is now required.
4369,inducible gene expression: diverse regulatory mechanisms,the rapid activation of gene expression in response to stimuli occurs largely through the regulation of rna polymerase ii-dependent transcription. in this review  we discuss events that occur during the transcription cycle in eukaryotes that are important for the rapid and specific activation of gene expression in response to external stimuli. in addition to regulated recruitment of the transcription machinery to the promoter  it has now been shown that control steps can include chromatin remodelling and the release of paused polymerase. recent work suggests that some components of signal transduction cascades also play an integral part in activating transcription at target genes.
4371,resistance to gefitinib in pten-null her-overexpressing tumor cells can be overcome through restoration of pten function or pharmacologic modulation of constitutive phosphatidylinositol 3'-kinase/akt pathway signaling.,purpose tyrosine kinase (tk) inhibitors are emerging as a promising new approach to the treatment of her overexpressing tumors  however optimal use of these agents awaits further definition of the downstream signaling pathways that mediate their effects. we reported previously that both egfr- and her2-overexpressing tumors are sensitive to the new egfr-selective tk inhibitor gefitinib (zd1839  "iressa")  and sensitivity to this agent correlated with its ability to down-regulate akt. however  egfr-overexpressing mda-468 cells  which lack pten function  are resistant to zd1839  and zd1839 is unable to down-regulate akt activity in these cells. experimental design to study the role of pten function  we generated mda468 cells with tet-inducible pten expression. results we show here that the resistance of mda-468 cells to zd1839 is attributable to egfr-independent constitutive akt activation caused by loss of pten function in these cells. reconstitution of pten function through tet-inducible expression restores zd1839 sensitivity to these cells and reestablishes egfr-stimulated akt signaling. although restoration of pten function to tumors is difficult to implement clinically  much of the effects of pten loss are attributable to overactive pi3k/akt pathway signaling  and this overactivity can be modulated by pharmacologic approaches. we show here that pharmacologic down-regulation of constitutive pi3k/akt pathway signaling using the pi3k inhibitor ly294002 similarly restores egfr-stimulated akt signaling and sensitizes mda-468 cells to zd1839. conclusions sensitivity to zd1839 requires intact growth factor receptor-stimulated akt signaling activity. pten loss leads to uncoupling of this signaling pathway and results in zd1839 resistance  which can be reversed with reintroduction of pten or pharmacologic down-regulation of constitutive pi3k/akt pathway activity. these data have important predictive and therapeutic clinical implications.
4373,antithymocyte globulin treatment for patients with recent-onset type 1 diabetes: 12-month results of a randomised  placebo-controlled  phase 2 trial.,background type 1 diabetes results from t-cell-mediated destruction of β cells. findings from preclinical studies and pilot clinical trials suggest that antithymocyte globulin (atg) might be effective for reducing this autoimmune response. we assessed the safety and efficacy of rabbit atg in preserving islet function in participants with recent-onset type 1 diabetes  and report here our 12-month results. methods for this phase 2  randomised  placebo-controlled  clinical trial  we enrolled patients with recent-onset type 1 diabetes  aged 12-35 years  and with a peak c-peptide of 0.4 nm or greater on mixed meal tolerance test from 11 sites in the usa. we used a computer generated randomisation sequence to randomly assign patients (2:1  with permuted-blocks of size three or six and stratified by study site) to receive either 6.5 mg/kg atg or placebo over a course of four days. all participants were masked and initially managed by an unmasked drug management team  which managed all aspects of the study until month 3. thereafter  to maintain masking for diabetes management throughout the remainder of the study  participants received diabetes management from an independent  masked study physician and nurse educator. the primary endpoint was the baseline-adjusted change in 2-h area under the curve c-peptide response to mixed meal tolerance test from baseline to 12 months. analyses were by intention to treat. this is a planned interim analysis of an on-going trial that will run for 24 months of follow-up. this study is registered with clinicaltrials.gov  number nct00515099. findings between sept 10  2007  and june 1  2011  we screened 154 individuals  randomly allocating 38 to atg and 20 to placebo. we recorded no between-group difference in the primary endpoint: participants in the atg group had a mean change in c-peptide area under the curve of -0.195 pmol/ml (95% ci -0.292 to -0.098) and those in the placebo group had a mean change of -0.239 pmol/ml (-0.361 to -0.118) in the placebo group (p=0.591). all except one participant in the atg group had both cytokine release syndrome and serum sickness  which was associated with a transient rise in interleukin-6 and acute-phase proteins. acute t cell depletion occurred in the atg group  with slow reconstitution over 12 months. however  effector memory t cells were not depleted  and the ratio of regulatory to effector memory t cells declined in the first 6 months and stabilised thereafter. atg-treated patients had 159 grade 3-4 adverse events  many associated with t-cell depletion  compared with 13 in the placebo group  but we detected no between-group difference in incidence of infectious diseases. interpretation our findings suggest that a brief course of atg does not result in preservation of β-cell function 12 months later in patients with new-onset type 1 diabetes. generalised t-cell depletion in the absence of specific depletion of effector memory t cells and preservation of regulatory t cells seems to be an ineffective treatment for type 1 diabetes.
4375,association between serum corin levels and risk of acute myocardial infarction.,background accumulating evidence has indicated that corin plays critical roles in regulating salt-water balance  blood pressure and cardiac function by activating natriuretic peptides. the present case-control study was designed to evaluate the association of serum soluble corin with acute myocardial infarction (ami). methods we enrolled 856 consecutive ami patients and 856 control subjects and explored the possible relation between serum corin levels and ami risk using logistic regression model. results patients with ami had higher bmi  were less physically active  and were more likely to have histories of hypertension  diabetes  hyperlipidemia and smoking compared with the controls. serum levels of corin were remarkably reduced in ami patients (825±263pg/ml) compared with those in healthy controls (1246±425pg/ml). odds ratios of st elevation (stemi) and non-st elevation myocardial infarction (nstemi) were significantly decreased with the increasing levels of serum corin in both men and women (p for trend  <0.001) after adjustment for body mass index  hypertension  diabetes  hyperlipidemia  smoking  and physical activity. conclusions our study demonstrates that serum levels of corin are significantly decreased in ami patients  and it is inversely associated with the incidences of stemi and nstemi in both men and women.
4377,nuclear pten functions as an essential regulator of srf-dependent transcription to control smooth muscle differentiation,vascular disease progression is associated with marked changes in vascular smooth muscle cell (smc) phenotype and function. smc contractile gene expression and  thus differentiation  is under direct transcriptional control by the transcription factor  serum response factor (srf); however  the mechanisms dynamically regulating smc phenotype are not fully defined. here we report that the lipid and protein phosphatase  pten  has a novel role in the nucleus by functioning as an indispensible regulator with srf to maintain the differentiated sm phenotype. pten interacts with the n-terminal domain of srf and pten-srf interaction promotes srf binding to essential promoter elements in sm-specific genes. factors inducing phenotypic switching promote loss of nuclear pten through nucleo-cytoplasmic translocation resulting in reduced myogenically active srf  but enhanced srf activity on target genes involved in proliferation. overall decreased expression of pten was observed in intimal smcs of human atherosclerotic lesions underlying the potential clinical importance of these findings.
4379,comparing the metabolism of quercetin in rats  mice and gerbils,several species of rodents are used to investigate the metabolism of quercetin in vivo. however  it is unclear whether they are a proper animal model. thus  we compared the metabolism of quercetin in wistar rats (rats)  balb/c mice (mice) and mongolian gerbils (gerbils). we determined the levels of quercetin metabolites  quercetin-3-glucuronide (q3g)  quercetin-3′-sulfate (q3′s) and methyl-quercetin isorhamnetin (ih)  in the plasma  lungs and livers of three species of animals by high-performance liquid chromatography after acute and/or chronic quercetin administration. the metabolic enzyme activities in the intestinal mucosal membrane and liver were also investigated. first  we found that after acute quercetin administration  the q3′s level was the highest in gerbils. however  after long-term supplementation (20 weeks)  q3g was the dominant metabolite in the plasma  lungs and livers followed by ih and q3′s in all animals  although the gerbils still had a higher q3′s conversion ratio. the average concentrations of total quercetin concentration in the plasma of gerbils were the highest in both short- and long-term studies. the activities of uridine 5′-diphosphate-glucuronosyltransferase  phenolsulfotransferase and catechol-o-methyltransferase were induced by quercetin in a dose- and tissue-dependent manner in all animals. taken together  in general  after long-term supplementation the metabolism of quercetin is similar in all animals and is comparable to that of humans. however  the accumulation of quercetin and q3′s conversion ratio in gerbils are higher than those in the other animals.
4381,claspin  a chk1-regulatory protein  monitors dna replication on chromatin independently of rpa  atr  and rad17.,claspin is required for the atr-dependent activation of chk1 in xenopus egg extracts containing incompletely replicated dna. we show here that claspin associates with chromatin in a regulated manner during s phase. binding of claspin to chromatin depends on the pre-replication complex (pre-rc) and cdc45 but not on replication protein a (rpa). these dependencies suggest that binding of claspin occurs around the time of initial dna unwinding at replication origins. by contrast  both atr and rad17 require rpa for association with dna. claspin  atr  and rad17 all bind to chromatin independently. these findings suggest that claspin plays a role in monitoring dna replication during s phase. claspin  atr  and rad17 may collaborate in checkpoint regulation by detecting different aspects of a dna replication fork.
4383,carvedilol for children and adolescents with heart failure: a randomized controlled trial.,context although beta-blockers improve symptoms and survival in adults with heart failure  little is known about these medications in children and adolescents. objective to prospectively evaluate the effects of carvedilol in children and adolescents with symptomatic systemic ventricular systolic dysfunction. design  setting  and participants a multicenter  randomized  double-blind  placebo-controlled study of 161 children and adolescents with symptomatic systolic heart failure from 26 us centers. in addition to treatment with conventional heart failure medications  patients were assigned to receive placebo or carvedilol. enrollment began in june 2000 and the last dose was given in may 2005 (each patient received medication for 8 months). interventions patients were randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio to twice-daily dosing with placebo  low-dose carvedilol (0.2 mg/kg per dose if weight <62.5 kg or 12.5 mg per dose if weight > or =62.5 kg)  or high-dose carvedilol (0.4 mg/kg per dose if weight <62.5 kg or 25 mg per dose if weight > or =62.5 kg) and were stratified according to whether each patient's systemic ventricle was a left ventricle or not. main outcome measures the primary outcome was a composite measure of heart failure outcomes in patients receiving carvedilol (low- and high-dose combined) vs placebo. secondary efficacy variables included individual components of this composite  echocardiographic measures  and plasma b-type natriuretic peptide levels. results there was no statistically significant difference between groups for the composite end point based on the percentage of patients who improved  worsened  or were unchanged. among 54 patients assigned to placebo  30 improved (56%)  16 worsened (30%)  and 8 were unchanged (15%); among 103 patients assigned to carvedilol  58 improved (56%)  25 worsened (24%)  and 20 were unchanged (19%). the rates of worsening were lower than expected. the odds ratio for worsened outcome for patients in the combined carvedilol group vs the placebo group was 0.79 (95% ci  0.36-1.59; p = .47). a prespecified subgroup analysis noted significant interaction between treatment and ventricular morphology (p = .02)  indicating a possible differential effect of treatment between patients with a systemic left ventricle (beneficial trend) and those whose systemic ventricle was not a left ventricle (nonbeneficial trend). conclusions these preliminary results suggest that carvedilol does not significantly improve clinical heart failure outcomes in children and adolescents with symptomatic systolic heart failure. however  given the lower than expected event rates  the trial may have been underpowered. there may be a differential effect of carvedilol in children and adolescents based on ventricular morphology. trial registration clinicaltrials.gov identifier: nct00052026.
4385,mechanism and regulation of dna-protein crosslink repair by the dna-dependent metalloprotease sprtn,covalent dna-protein crosslinks (dpcs) are toxic dna lesions that interfere with essential chromatin transactions  such as replication and transcription. little was known about dpc-specific repair mechanisms until the recent identification of a dpc-processing protease in yeast. the existence of a dpc protease in higher eukaryotes is inferred from data in xenopus laevis egg extracts  but its identity remains elusive. here we identify the metalloprotease sprtn as the dpc protease acting in metazoans. loss of sprtn results in failure to repair dpcs and hypersensitivity to dpc-inducing agents. sprtn accomplishes dpc processing through a unique dna-induced protease activity  which is controlled by several sophisticated regulatory mechanisms. cellular  biochemical  and structural studies define a dna switch triggering its protease activity  a ubiquitin switch controlling sprtn chromatin accessibility  and regulatory autocatalytic cleavage. our data also provide a molecular explanation on how sprtn deficiency causes the premature aging and cancer predisposition disorder ruijs-aalfs syndrome.
4387,ethical dilemmas in a randomized trial of asthma treatment: can bayesian statistical analysis explain the results?,objectives the original objective was to determine whether the use of bilevel positive airway pressure (bipap) ventilation would reduce the need for endotracheal intubation  the length of hospital stay  and hospital charges in patients with status asthmaticus. the development of physician treatment bias made patient enrollment difficult. the article subsequently describes the use of bayesian statistics to explain study results when this bias occurs. methods this study was a prospective  randomized controlled clinical trial conducted over a 34.5-month period at an urban university hospital with an emergency department census of 94 000 annual visits. patients remaining in status asthmaticus after initial standard treatment with inhaled beta-agonists and steroids were randomized to receive bipap ventilation plus standard treatment versus standard treatment alone (non-bipap)  with intubation for either group as needed. patients with concurrent cardiac or other pulmonary diseases were excluded. the primary outcome measures were endotracheal intubation rate and length of hospital stay. secondary outcome measures included vital signs (respiratory rate  pulse rate  blood pressure)  changes in expiratory peak flow  changes in pulse oximetry values  and hospital charges. data were analyzed using fisher's exact test  mann-whitney tests  and bayesian statistics. for patients enrolled in the study more than once  data analysis was performed on the first enrollment only. results nineteen patients were enrolled in the bipap group and 16 patients in the non-bipap group. patients were frequently enrolled more than once and the data from the subsequent enrollments were excluded from the analysis. a marked decrease in enrollment  due to physician treatment bias  led to a premature termination of the study. demographics showed that the groups were similar in age  sex  initial peak flow rate  and arterial blood gas measurements. there was a 7.3% increase (95% ci = -22 to +45) in the intubation rate in the non-bipap group (n = 2) compared with that for the bipap group (n = 1). no significant difference was seen in length of hospital stay or hospital charges  although there was a favorable trend toward the bipap group. complications encountered in the bipap group included one patient with discomfort associated with the nasal bipap mask. bayesian analysis demonstrated that in order for the collected data to be convincing at the 95% confidence level  the prior conviction among treating physicians that bipap was a successful treatment modality would have had to be 98.9%. conclusions in this study  bipap appeared to have no deleterious effects in patients with status asthmaticus  with a trend toward decreased endotracheal intubation rate  decreased length of hospital stay  and decreased hospital charges. although further study with more patients is needed to determine the clinical and statistical significance of this intervention  ethical concerns regarding withholding bipap treatment from the patients in the control group forced a premature termination of the study in the authors' institution.
4389,why females live longer than males: control of longevity by sex hormones.,females live longer than males in many species  including humans. we have traced a possible explanation for this phenomenon to the beneficial action of estrogens  which bind to estrogen receptors and increase the expression of longevity-associated genes  including those encoding the antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase. as a result  mitochondria from females produce fewer reactive oxygen species than those from males. administering estrogens has serious drawbacks  however--they are feminizing (and thus cannot be administered to males) and may increase the incidence of serious diseases such as uterine cancer in postmenopausal women. phytoestrogens  which are present in soy or wine  may have some of the favorable effects of estrogens without their undesirable effects. study of gender differences in longevity may help us to understand the basic processes of aging and to devise practical strategies to increase the longevity of both females and males.
4391,helicobacter species methods and protocols. introduction.,helicobacter infection is a chronic persistent condition which is responsible for the majority of cases of gastric and duodenal ulcers  and gastric cancer. the study of the bacteria  the interaction of the bacteria with the host  and the host immune response has greatly benefited from standardization of culture techniques and animal models. the following chapters will describe the clinical aspects of infection and touch on the important techniques for optimal investigation of this infection.
4393,genetic variation in west nile virus from naturally infected mosquitoes and birds suggests quasispecies structure and strong purifying selection.,intrahost genetic diversity was analysed in naturally infected mosquitoes and birds to determine whether west nile virus (wnv) exists in nature as a quasispecies and to quantify selective pressures within and between hosts. wnv was sampled from ten infected birds and ten infected mosquito pools collected on long island  ny  usa  during the peak of the 2003 wnv transmission season. a 1938 nt fragment comprising the 3' 1159 nt of the wnv envelope (e) coding region and the 5' 779 nt of the non-structural protein 1 (ns1) coding region was amplified and cloned and 20 clones per specimen were sequenced. results from this analysis demonstrate that wnv infections are derived from a genetically diverse population of genomes in nature. the mean nucleotide diversity was 0.016 % within individual specimens and the mean percentage of clones that differed from the consensus sequence was 19.5 %. wnv sequences in mosquitoes were significantly more genetically diverse than wnv in birds. no host-dependent bias for particular types of mutations was observed and estimates of genetic diversity did not differ significantly between e and ns1 coding sequences. non-consensus clones obtained from two avian specimens had highly similar genetic signatures  providing preliminary evidence that wnv genetic diversity may be maintained throughout the enzootic transmission cycle  rather than arising independently during each infection. evidence of purifying selection was obtained from both intra- and interhost wnv populations. combined  these data support the observation that wnv populations may be structured as a quasispecies and document strong purifying natural selection in wnv populations.
4395,intimal smooth muscle cell proliferation after balloon catheter injury. the role of basic fibroblast growth factor.,the localization and synthesis of basic fibroblast growth factor (bfgf) in the rat carotid artery were investigated at times of chronic smooth muscle cell proliferation. immunocytochemical staining showed the presence of bfgf in the uninjured arterial wall  and after balloon injury  this cellular staining was decreased. western and northern blot analyses likewise showed that the amount of bfgf protein and mrna decreased after injury. a neutralizing antibody to bfgf was administered 4 and 5 days after injury and was found to have no effect on intimal smooth muscle cell proliferation. these data suggest that an increase in the expression of bfgf is not necessary for chronic smooth muscle cell proliferation observed after balloon catheter injury and that bfgf is not the major mitogen responsible for intimal smooth muscle cell proliferation.
4397,long-term efficacy of nicotine replacement therapy for smoking cessation in adolescents: a randomized controlled trial.,background a double-blind rct on the short-term efficacy of nicotine patches compared to placebo patches among dutch adolescents was conducted. the findings demonstrated that nicotine patches are efficacious for smoking cessation at end-of-treatment; however  only in highly compliant participants. we tested whether the effects of nrt also held in 6- (t7) and 12-month (t8) follow-up assessments. methods adolescents aged 12-18 years  who smoked at least seven cigarettes a day and who were motivated to quit smoking were recruited at school yards and randomly assigned to either a nicotine patch (n=182) or a placebo patch (n=180) condition according to a computer generated list. participants (n=257  age: 16.7 ± 1.13 years) attended an information meeting followed by a 6- or 9-week treatment. smoking cessation  compliance  and potential covariates were measured by means of online questionnaires. smoking cessation at t8 was biochemically validated by saliva cotinine. results at t7  8.1% and 5.7% of participants were abstinent in the nicotine and placebo patch groups  respectively. at t8  abstinence was 4.4% and 6.6%  respectively. intention-to-treat analyses showed no significant effects of nrt on abstinence rates at t7 (or=1.54  95% ci=0.57  4.16) and validated abstinence rates at t8 (or=0.64  95% ci=0.21  1.93) neither after considering compliance nor after adjusting for covariates. conclusions nrt fails in helping adolescents quit smoking at 6- and 12-month follow-ups. this finding suggests that a more intensive approach is needed to assist youngsters in their quit attempts.
4399,the first gene of the bacillus subtilis clpc operon  ctsr  encodes a negative regulator of its own operon and other class iii heat shock genes.,the bacillus subtilis clpc operon is regulated by two stress induction pathways relying on either sigmab or a class iii stress induction mechanism acting at a sigmaa-like promoter. when the clpc operon was placed under the control of the isopropyl-beta-d-thiogalactopyranoside (iptg)-inducible pspac promoter  dramatic repression of the natural clpc promoters fused to a lacz reporter gene was noticed after iptg induction. this result strongly indicated negative regulation of the clpc operon by one of its gene products. indeed  the negative regulator could be identified which is encoded by the first gene of the clpc operon  ctsr  containing a predicted helix-turn-helix dna-binding motif. deletion of ctsr abolished the negative regulation and resulted in high expression of both the clpc operon and the clpp gene under nonstressed conditions. nevertheless  a further increase in clpc and clpp mrna levels was observed after heat shock  even in the absence of sigmab  suggesting a second induction mechanism at the vegetative promoter. two-dimensional gel analysis and mrna studies showed that the expression of other class iii stress genes was at least partially influenced by the ctsr deletion. studies with different clpc promoter fragments either fused to the reporter gene bgab or used in gel mobility shift experiments with the purified ctsr protein revealed a possible target region where the repressor seemed to bind in vivo and in vitro. our data demonstrate that the ctsr protein acts as a global repressor of the clpc operon  as well as other class iii heat shock genes  by preventing unstressed transcription from either the sigmab- or sigmaa-dependent promoter and might be inactivated or dissociate under inducing stress conditions.
4401,examining bcl-2 family function with large unilamellar vesicles.,the bcl-2 (b cell cll/lymphoma) family is comprised of approximately twenty proteins that collaborate to either maintain cell survival or initiate apoptosis(1). following cellular stress (e.g.  dna damage)  the pro-apoptotic bcl-2 family effectors bak (bcl-2 antagonistic killer 1) and/or bax (bcl-2 associated x protein) become activated and compromise the integrity of the outer mitochondrial membrane (omm)  though the process referred to as mitochondrial outer membrane permeabilization (momp)(1). after momp occurs  pro-apoptotic proteins (e.g.  cytochrome c) gain access to the cytoplasm  promote caspase activation  and apoptosis rapidly ensues(2). in order for bak/bax to induce momp  they require transient interactions with members of another pro-apoptotic subset of the bcl-2 family  the bcl-2 homology domain 3 (bh3)-only proteins  such as bid (bh3-interacting domain agonist)(3-6). anti-apoptotic bcl-2 family proteins (e.g.  bcl-2 related gene  long isoform  bcl-xl; myeloid cell leukemia 1  mcl-1) regulate cellular survival by tightly controlling the interactions between bak/bax and the bh3-only proteins capable of directly inducing bak/bax activation(7 8). in addition  anti-apoptotic bcl-2 protein availability is also dictated by sensitizer/de-repressor bh3-only proteins  such as bad (bcl-2 antagonist of cell death) or puma (p53 upregulated modulator of apoptosis)  which bind and inhibit anti-apoptotic members(7 9). as most of the anti-apoptotic bcl-2 repertoire is localized to the omm  the cellular decision to maintain survival or induce momp is dictated by multiple bcl-2 family interactions at this membrane. large unilamellar vesicles (luvs) are a biochemical model to explore relationships between bcl-2 family interactions and membrane permeabilization(10). luvs are comprised of defined lipids that are assembled in ratios identified in lipid composition studies from solvent extracted xenopus mitochondria (46.5% phosphatidylcholine  28.5% phosphatidylethanoloamine  9% phosphatidylinositol  9% phosphatidylserine  and 7% cardiolipin)(10). this is a convenient model system to directly explore bcl-2 family function because the protein and lipid components are completely defined and tractable  which is not always the case with primary mitochondria. while cardiolipin is not usually this high throughout the omm  this model does faithfully mimic the omm to promote bcl-2 family function. furthermore  a more recent modification of the above protocol allows for kinetic analyses of protein interactions and real-time measurements of membrane permeabilization  which is based on luvs containing a polyanionic dye (ants: 8-aminonaphthalene-1 3 6-trisulfonic acid) and cationic quencher (dpx: p-xylene-bis-pyridinium bromide)(11). as the luvs permeabilize  ants and dpx diffuse apart  and a gain in fluorescence is detected. here  commonly used recombinant bcl-2 family protein combinations and controls using the luvs containing ants/dpx are described.
4403,human monocytes engage an alternative inflammasome pathway.,interleukin-1β (il-1β) is a cytokine whose bioactivity is controlled by activation of the inflammasome. however  in response to lipopolysaccharide  human monocytes secrete il-1β independently of classical inflammasome stimuli. here  we report that this constituted a species-specific response that is not observed in the murine system. indeed  in human monocytes  lipopolysaccharide triggered an "alternative inflammasome" that relied on nlrp3-asc-caspase-1 signaling  yet was devoid of any classical inflammasome characteristics including pyroptosome formation  pyroptosis induction  and k(+) efflux dependency. genetic dissection of the underlying signaling pathway in a monocyte transdifferentiation system revealed that alternative inflammasome activation was propagated by tlr4-trif-ripk1-fadd-casp8 signaling upstream of nlrp3. importantly  involvement of this signaling cascade was limited to alternative inflammasome activation and did not extend to classical nlrp3 activation. because alternative inflammasome activation embraces both sensitivity and promiscuity of tlr4  we propose a pivotal role for this signaling cascade in tlr4-driven  il-1β-mediated immune responses and immunopathology in humans.
4405,the coordination of cyclic microtubule association/dissociation and tail swing of cytoplasmic dynein.,the dynein motor domain is composed of a tail  head  and stalk and is thought to generate a force to microtubules by swinging the tail against the head during its atpase cycle. for this "power stroke " dynein has to coordinate the tail swing with microtubule association/dissociation at the tip of the stalk. although a detailed picture of the former process is emerging  the latter process remains to be elucidated. by using the single-headed recombinant motor domain of dictyostelium cytoplasmic dynein  we address the questions of how the interaction of the motor domain with a microtubule is modulated by atpase steps  how the two mechanical cycles (the microtubule association/dissociation and tail swing) are coordinated  and which atpase site among the multiple sites in the motor domain regulates the coordination. based on steady-state and pre-steady-state measurements  we demonstrate that the two mechanical cycles proceed synchronously at most of the intermediate states in the atpase cycle: the motor domain in the poststroke state binds strongly to the microtubule with a k(d) of approximately 0.2 microm  whereas most of the motor domains in the prestroke state bind weakly to the microtubule with a k(d) of >10 microm. however  our results suggest that the timings of the microtubule affinity change and tail swing are staggered at the recovery stroke step in which the tail swings from the poststroke to the prestroke position. the atpase site in the aaa1 module of the motor domain was found to be responsible for the coordination of these two mechanical processes.
4407,the molecular requirements for cytokinesis.,after anaphase onset  animal cells build an actomyosin contractile ring that constricts the plasma membrane to generate two daughter cells connected by a cytoplasmic bridge. the bridge is ultimately severed to complete cytokinesis. myriad techniques have been used to identify proteins that participate in cytokinesis in vertebrates  insects  and nematodes. a conserved core of about 20 proteins are individually involved with cytokinesis in most animal cells. these components are found in the contractile ring  on the central spindle  within the rhoa pathway  and on vesicles that expand the membrane and sever the bridge. cytokinesis involves additional proteins  but they  or their requirement in cytokinesis  are not conserved among animal cells.
4409,a gradient of template dependence defines distinct biological roles for family x polymerases in nonhomologous end joining.,three pol x family members have been linked to nonhomologous end joining (nhej) in mammals. template-independent tdt promotes diversity during nhej-dependent repair of v(d)j recombination intermediates  but the roles of the template-dependent polymerases mu and lambda in nhej remain unclear. we show here that pol mu and pol lambda are similarly recruited by nhej factors to fill gaps when ends have partially complementary overhangs  suggesting equivalent roles promoting accuracy in nhej. however  only pol mu promotes accuracy during immunoglobulin kappa recombination. this distinctive in vivo role correlates with the tdt-like ability of pol mu  but not pol lambda  to act when primer termini lack complementary bases in the template strand. however  unlike tdt  synthesis by pol mu in this context is primarily instructed by a template from another dna molecule. this apparent gradient of template dependence is largely attributable to a small structural element that is present but different in all three polymerases.
4411,metabolic  epigenetic  and transgenerational effects of gut bacterial choline consumption.,choline is an essential nutrient and methyl donor required for epigenetic regulation. here  we assessed the impact of gut microbial choline metabolism on bacterial fitness and host biology by engineering a microbial community that lacks a single choline-utilizing enzyme. our results indicate that choline-utilizing bacteria compete with the host for this nutrient  significantly impacting plasma and hepatic levels of methyl-donor metabolites and recapitulating biochemical signatures of choline deficiency. mice harboring high levels of choline-consuming bacteria showed increased susceptibility to metabolic disease in the context of a high-fat diet. furthermore  bacterially induced reduction of methyl-donor availability influenced global dna methylation patterns in both adult mice and their offspring and engendered behavioral alterations. our results reveal an underappreciated effect of bacterial choline metabolism on host metabolism  epigenetics  and behavior. this work suggests that interpersonal differences in microbial metabolism should be considered when determining optimal nutrient intake requirements.
4413,human tuberculous granulomas induce peripheral lymphoid follicle-like structures to orchestrate local host defence in the lung.,the human tuberculous granuloma provides the morphological basis for local immune processes central to the outcome of tuberculosis. because of the scarcity of information in human patients  the aim of the present study was to gain insights into the functional and structural properties of infiltrated tissue. to this end  the mycobacterial load in lesions and dissemination to different tissue locations were investigated  as well as distribution  biological functions  and interactions of host immune cells. analysis of early granuloma formation in formerly healthy lung tissue revealed a spatio-temporal sequence of cellular infiltration to sites of mycobacterial infection. a general structure of the developing granuloma was identified  comprising an inner cell layer with few cd8(+) cells surrounding the necrotic centre and an outer area of lymphocyte infiltration harbouring mycobacteria-containing antigen-presenting cells as well as cd4(+)  cd8(+)  and b cells in active follicle-like centres resembling secondary lymphoid organs. it is concluded that the follicular structures in the peripheral rim of granulomas serve as a morphological substrate for the orchestration of the enduring host response in pulmonary tuberculosis.
4415,association of cystic fibrosis with abnormalities in fatty acid metabolism.,background patients with cystic fibrosis have altered levels of plasma fatty acids. we previously demonstrated that arachidonic acid levels are increased and docosahexaenoic acid levels are decreased in affected tissues from cystic fibrosis-knockout mice. in this study we determined whether humans with mutations in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (cftr) gene have a similar fatty acid defect in tissues expressing cftr. methods fatty acids from nasal- and rectal-biopsy specimens  nasal epithelial scrapings  and plasma were analyzed from 38 subjects with cystic fibrosis and compared with results in 13 obligate heterozygotes  24 healthy controls  11 subjects with inflammatory bowel disease  9 subjects with upper respiratory tract infection  and 16 subjects with asthma. results the ratio of arachidonic to docosahexaenoic acid was increased in mucosal and submucosal nasal-biopsy specimens (p<0.001) and rectal-biopsy specimens (p=0.009) from subjects with cystic fibrosis and pancreatic sufficiency and subjects with cystic fibrosis and pancreatic insufficiency  as compared with values in healthy control subjects. in nasal tissue  this change reflected an increase in arachidonic acid levels and a decrease in docosahexaenoic acid levels. in cells from nasal mucosa  the ratio of arachidonic to docosahexaenoic acid was increased in subjects with cystic fibrosis (p<0.001)  as compared with healthy controls  with values in obligate heterozygotes intermediate between these two groups (p<0.001). the ratio was not increased in subjects with inflammatory bowel disease. subjects with asthma and those with upper respiratory tract infection had values intermediate between those in subjects with cystic fibrosis and those in healthy control subjects. conclusions these data indicate that alterations in fatty acids similar to those in cystic fibrosis-knockout mice are present in cftr-expressing tissue from subjects with cystic fibrosis.
4417,lamin a-dependent nuclear defects in human aging.,mutations in the nuclear structural protein lamin a cause the premature aging syndrome hutchinson-gilford progeria (hgps). whether lamin a plays any role in normal aging is unknown. we show that the same molecular mechanism responsible for hgps is active in healthy cells. cell nuclei from old individuals acquire defects similar to those of hgps patient cells  including changes in histone modifications and increased dna damage. age-related nuclear defects are caused by sporadic use  in healthy individuals  of the same cryptic splice site in lamin a whose constitutive activation causes hgps. inhibition of this splice site reverses the nuclear defects associated with aging. these observations implicate lamin a in physiological aging.
4419,human and other faeces as breeding media of the trachoma vector musca sorbens.,the fly musca sorbens wiedemann (diptera: muscidae) apparently transmits chlamydia trachomatis  causing human trachoma. the literature indicates that m. sorbens breeds predominantly in isolated human faeces on the soil surface  but not in covered pit latrines. we sought to identify breeding media of m. sorbens in a rural gambian village endemic for trachoma. test breeding media were presented for oviposition on soil-filled buckets and monitored for adult emergence. musca sorbens emerged from human (6/9 trials)  calf (3/9)  cow (3/9)  dog (2/9) and goat (1/9) faeces  but not from horse faeces  composting kitchen scraps or a soil control (0/9 of each). after adjusting for mass of medium  the greatest number of flies emerged from human faeces (1426 flies/kg). median time for emergence was 9 (inter quartile range = 8-9.75) days post-oviposition. of all flies emerging from faeces 81% were m. sorbens. male and female flies emerging from human faeces were significantly larger than those from other media  suggesting that they would be more fecund and live longer than smaller flies from other sources. female flies caught from children's eyes were of a similar size to those from human faeces  but significantly larger than those from other media. we consider that human faeces are the best larval medium for m. sorbens  although some breeding also occurs in animal faeces. removal of human faeces from the environment  through the provision of basic sanitation  is likely to greatly reduce fly density  eye contact and hence trachoma transmission  but if faeces of other animals are present m. sorbens will persist.
4421,identification and characterization of a widely expressed form of adenylyl cyclase.,a novel mammalian adenylyl cyclase was identified by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction amplification using degenerate primers based on a conserved region of previously described adenylyl cyclases (premont  r. t. (1994) methods enzymol. 238  116-127). the full-length cdna sequence obtained from mouse brain predicts a 1353-amino acid protein possessing a 12-membrane span topology  and containing two regions of high similarity with the catalytic domains of adenylyl cyclases. comparison of this novel adenylyl cyclase with the eight previously described mammalian enzymes indicates that this type 9 adenylyl cyclase sequence is the most divergent  defining a sixth distinct subclass of mammalian adenylyl cyclases. the ac9 gene has been localized to human chromosome band 16p13.3-13.2. the 8.5-kb mrna encoding the type 9 adenylyl cyclase is widely distributed  being readily detected in all tissues tested  and is found at very high levels in skeletal muscle and brain. ac9 mrna is found throughout rat brain but is particularly abundant in hippocampus  cerebellum  and neocortex. an antiserum directed against the carboxyl terminus of the type 9 adenylyl cyclase detects native and expressed recombinant ac9 protein in tissue and cell membranes. levels of the ac9 protein are highest in mouse brain membranes. characterization of expressed recombinant ac9 reveals that the protein is a functional adenylyl cyclase that is stimulated by mg2+  forskolin  and mutationally activated gsalpha. ac9 activity is not affected by ca2+/calmodulin or by g protein betagamma-subunits. thus ac9 represents a functional g protein-regulated adenylyl cyclase found in brain and in most somatic tissues.
4423,diagnostic accuracy of single baseline measurement of elecsys troponin t high-sensitive assay for diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction in emergency department: systematic review and meta-analysis,objective to obtain summary estimates of the accuracy of a single baseline measurement of the elecsys troponin t high-sensitive assay (roche diagnostics) for the diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction in patients presenting to the emergency department. design systematic review and meta-analysis of diagnostic test accuracy studies. data sources medline  embase  and other relevant electronic databases were searched for papers published between january 2006 and december 2013. study selection studies were included if they evaluated the diagnostic accuracy of a single baseline measurement of elecsys troponin t high-sensitive assay for the diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction in patients presenting to the emergency department with suspected acute coronary syndrome. study appraisal and data synthesis the first author screened all titles and abstracts identified through the searches and selected all potentially relevant papers. the screening of the full texts  the data extraction  and the methodological quality assessment  using the adapted quadas-2 tool  were conducted independently by two reviewers with disagreements being resolved through discussion or arbitration. if appropriate  meta-analysis was conducted using the hierarchical bivariate model. results twenty three studies reported the performance of the evaluated assay at presentation. the results for 14 ng/l and 3-5 ng/l cut-off values were pooled separately. at 14 ng/l (20 papers)  the summary sensitivity was 89.5% (95% confidence interval 86.3% to 92.1%) and the summary specificity was 77.1% (68.7% to 83.7%). at 3-5 ng/l (six papers)  the summary sensitivity was 97.4% (94.9% to 98.7%) and the summary specificity was 42.4% (31.2% to 54.5%). this means that if 21 of 100 consecutive patients have the target condition (21%  the median prevalence across the studies)  2 (95% confidence interval 2 to 3) of 21 patients with acute myocardial infarction will be missed (false negatives) if 14 ng/l is used as a cut-off value and 18 (13 to 25) of 79 patients without acute myocardial infarction will test positive (false positives). if the 3-5 ng/l cut-off value is used  <1 (0 to 1) patient with acute myocardial infarction will be missed and 46 (36 to 54) patients without acute myocardial infarction will test positive. conclusions the results indicate that a single baseline measurement of the elecsys troponin t high-sensitive assay could be used to rule out acute myocardial infarction if lower cut-off values such as 3 ng/l or 5 ng/l are used. however  this method should be part of a comprehensive triage strategy and may not be appropriate for patients who present less than three hours after symptom onset. care must also be exercised because of the higher imprecision of the evaluated assay and the greater effect of lot-to-lot reagent variation at low troponin concentrations. systematic review registration prospero registration number crd42013003926.
4425,membrane association of the cd3ε signaling domain is required for optimal t cell development and function.,the tcr:cd3 complex transduces signals that are critical for optimal t cell development and adaptive immunity. in resting t cells  the cd3ε cytoplasmic tail associates with the plasma membrane via a proximal basic-rich stretch (brs). in this study  we show that mice lacking a functional cd3ε-brs exhibited substantial reductions in thymic cellularity and limited cd4- cd8- double-negative (dn) 3 to dn4 thymocyte transition  because of enhanced dn4 tcr signaling resulting in increased cell death and tcr downregulation in all subsequent populations. furthermore  positive  but not negative  t cell selection was affected in mice lacking a functional cd3ε-brs  which led to limited peripheral t cell function and substantially reduced responsiveness to influenza infection. collectively  these results indicate that membrane association of the cd3ε signaling domain is required for optimal thymocyte development and peripheral t cell function.
4427,of lineage and legacy: the development of mammalian hematopoietic stem cells,the hematopoietic system is one of the first complex tissues to develop in the mammalian conceptus. of particular interest in the field of developmental hematopoiesis is the origin of adult bone marrow hematopoietic stem cells. tracing their origin is complicated because blood is a mobile tissue and because hematopoietic cells emerge from many embryonic sites. the origin of the adult mammalian blood system remains a topic of lively discussion and intense research. interest is also focused on developmental signals that induce the adult hematopoietic stem cell program  as these may prove useful for generating and expanding these clinically important cell populations ex vivo. this review presents a historical overview of and the most recent data on the developmental origins of hematopoiesis.
4429,neural induction and early patterning in vertebrates.,in vertebrates  the development of the nervous system is triggered by signals from a powerful 'organizing' region of the early embryo during gastrulation. this phenomenon--neural induction--was originally discovered and given conceptual definition by experimental embryologists working with amphibian embryos. work on the molecular circuitry underlying neural induction  also in the same model system  demonstrated that elimination of ongoing transforming growth factor-β (tgfβ) signaling in the ectoderm is the hallmark of anterior neural-fate acquisition. this observation is the basis of the 'default' model of neural induction. endogenous neural inducers are secreted proteins that act to inhibit tgfβ ligands in the dorsal ectoderm. in the ventral ectoderm  where the signaling ligands escape the inhibitors  a non-neural fate is induced. inhibition of the tgfβ pathway has now been demonstrated to be sufficient to directly induce neural fate in mammalian embryos as well as pluripotent mouse and human embryonic stem cells. hence the molecular process that delineates neural from non-neural ectoderm is conserved across a broad range of organisms in the evolutionary tree. the availability of embryonic stem cells from mouse  primates  and humans will facilitate further understanding of the role of signaling pathways and their downstream mediators in neural induction in vertebrate embryos.
4431,generation of mice deficient in both klf3/bklf and klf8 reveals a genetic interaction and a role for these factors in embryonic globin gene silencing.,krüppel-like factors 3 and 8 (klf3 and klf8) are highly related transcriptional regulators that bind to similar sequences of dna. we have previously shown that in erythroid cells there is a regulatory hierarchy within the klf family  whereby klf1 drives the expression of both the klf3 and klf8 genes and klf3 in turn represses klf8 expression. while the erythroid roles of klf1 and klf3 have been explored  the contribution of klf8 to this regulatory network has been unknown. to investigate this  we have generated a mouse model with disrupted klf8 expression. while these mice are viable  albeit with a reduced life span  mice lacking both klf3 and klf8 die at around embryonic day 14.5 (e14.5)  indicative of a genetic interaction between these two factors. in the fetal liver  klf3 klf8 double mutant embryos exhibit greater dysregulation of gene expression than either of the two single mutants. in particular  we observe derepression of embryonic  but not adult  globin expression. taken together  these results suggest that klf3 and klf8 have overlapping roles in vivo and participate in the silencing of embryonic globin expression during development.
4433,svpa  a novel surface virulence-associated protein required for intracellular survival of listeria monocytogenes.,a previously unknown protein  designated svpa (surface virulence-associated protein) and implicated in the virulence of the intracellular pathogen listeria monocytogenes  was identified. this 64 kda protein  encoded by svpa  is both secreted in culture supernatants and surface-exposed  as shown by immunogold labelling of whole bacteria with an anti-svpa antibody. analysis of the peptide sequence revealed that svpa contains a leader peptide  a predicted c-terminal transmembrane region and a positively charged tail resembling that of the surface protein acta  suggesting that svpa might partially reassociate with the bacterial surface by its c-terminal membrane anchor. an allelic mutant was constructed by disrupting svpa in the wild-type strain lo28. the virulence of this mutant was strongly attenuated in the mouse  with a 2 log decrease in the ld50 and restricted bacterial growth in organs as compared to the wild-type strain. this reduced virulence was not related either to a loss of adherence or to a lower expression of known virulence factors  which remained unaffected in the svpa mutant. it was caused by a restriction of intracellular growth of mutant bacteria. by following the intracellular behaviour of bacteria within bone-marrow-derived macrophages by confocal and electron microscopy studies  it was found that most svpa mutant bacteria remained confined within phagosomes  in contrast to wild-type bacteria which rapidly escaped to the cytoplasm. the regulation of svpa was independent of prfa  the transcriptional activator of virulence genes in l. monocytogenes. in fact  svpa was down-regulated by meca  clpc and clpp  which are highly homologous to proteins of bacillus subtilis forming a regulatory complex controlling the competence state of this saprophyte. the results indicate that: (i) svpa is a novel factor involved in the virulence of l. monocytogenes  promoting bacterial escape from phagosomes of macrophages; (ii) svpa is  at least partially  associated with the surface of bacteria; and (iii) svpa is prfa-independent and controlled by a meca-dependent regulatory network.
4435,survival rates of tropical and temperate passerines: a trinidadian perspective.,mark-recapture data collected using mist nets over a 10-yr period in trinidad were used to estimate adult survival rates for 17 species of forest passerines. trinidadian survival rates (mean 65%  range 45%-85%) were significantly higher than published estimates for european (mean survival 52%  range 32%-71%) and north american (mean survival 53%  range 29%-63%) passerines of similar body size (equivalent to 45% higher mean life expectancy in trinidad). these findings were confirmed after controlling for phylogeny using a method of independent contrasts. transient and/or young birds were an important feature of the trinidad data  and studies that fail to allow for the presence of such birds risk underestimating adult survival. this study lends support to the hypothesis that avian survival rates are higher in the humid tropics  although the magnitude of the difference may be smaller than previously suggested.
4437,interaction between broad-spectrum antibiotics and the combined oral contraceptive pill. a literature review.,there is considerable variation in opinion about the importance of drug interactions between the combined oral contraceptive pill (cocp) and broad-spectrum antibiotics. clinical practice varies widely  especially between doctors in europe and those in the us. rifampicin and griseofulvin induce hepatic enzymes and do appear to have a genuine interaction with the cocp  leading to reduced efficacy. the situation with the broad-spectrum antibiotics is less clear. there are relatively few prospective studies of the pharmacokinetics of concurrent cocp and antibiotic use and few  if any  demonstrate a convincing basis for any reduced contraceptive efficacy. there is evidence  however  that variable contraceptive steroid handling could make some women  at some times  more susceptible to cocp failure. given the serious consequences of unwanted pregnancy  the cautious approach of using additional or alternative contraception during short courses of broad-spectrum antibiotics and the initial weeks of long-term antibiotic administration may be justified to safeguard the few unidentifiable women who may be at risk. conflicting opinion and advice is potentially confusing to both professionals and patients  and instructions for additional precautions during and after concurrent cocp and antibiotic use are complicated. many women are ignorant of  or confused about  the circumstances that can cause oc to fail. health professionals who prescribe the cocp must continue to strive to educate women about the mode of action and about the times when there is the greatest danger of failure. professionals who feel that concurrent antibiotic use represents a real threat to contraceptive efficacy of the cocp should be prepared to present the advice for additional contraceptive precautions in a simple and consistent way  backed up with written information and reinforced at regular intervals.
4439,subcapsular encounter and complement-dependent transport of immune complexes by lymph node b cells,the mechanism of b cell–antigen encounter in lymphoid tissues is incompletely understood. it is also unclear how immune complexes are transported to follicular dendritic cells. here  using real-time two-photon microscopy we noted rapid delivery of immune complexes through the lymph to macrophages in the lymph node subcapsular sinus. b cells captured immune complexes by a complement receptor–dependent mechanism from macrophage processes that penetrated the follicle and transported the complexes to follicular dendritic cells. furthermore  cognate b cells captured antigen-containing immune complexes from macrophage processes and migrated to the t zone. our findings identify macrophages lining the subcapsular sinus as an important site of b cell encounter with immune complexes and show that intrafollicular b cell migration facilitates the transport of immune complexes as well as encounters with cognate antigen.
4441,hepatic intra-arterial versus intravenous fotemustine in patients with liver metastases from uveal melanoma (eortc 18021): a multicentric randomized trial.,background in uveal melanoma (um) with metastatic disease limited to the liver  the effect of an intrahepatic treatment on survival is unknown. we investigated prospectively the efficacy and toxicity of hepatic intra-arterial (hia) versus systemic (iv) fotemustine in patients with liver metastases from um. patients and methods patients were randomly assigned to receive either iv or hia fotemustine at 100 mg/m(2) on days 1  8  15 (and 22 in hia arm only) as induction  and after a 5-week rest period every 3 weeks as maintenance. primary end point was overall survival (os). response rate (rr)  progression-free survival (pfs) and safety were secondary end points. results accrual was stopped after randomization of 171 patients based on the results of a futility os analysis. a total of 155 patients died and 16 were still alive [median follow-up 1.6 years (range 0.25-6 years)]. hia did not improve os (median 14.6 months) when compared with the iv arm (median 13.8 months)  hazard ratio (hr) 1.09; 95% confidence interval (ci) 0.79-1.50  log-rank p = 0.59. however  there was a significant benefit on pfs for hia compared with iv with a median of 4.5 versus 3.5 months  respectively (hr 0.62; 95% ci 0.45-0.84  log-rank p = 0.002). the 1-year pfs rate was 24% in the hia arm versus 8% in the iv arm. an improved rr was seen in the hia (10.5%) compared with iv treatment (2.4%). in the iv arm  the most frequent grade ≥3 toxicity was thrombocytopenia (42.1%) and neutropenia (62.6%)  compared with 21.2% and 28.7% in the hia arm. the main grade ≥3 toxicity related to hia was catheter complications (12%) and liver toxicity (4.5%) apart from two toxic deaths. conclusion hia treatment with fotemustine did not translate into an improved os compared with iv treatment  despite better rr and pfs. intrahepatic treatment should still be considered as experimental. eudract number and clinicaltrialsgov identifier 2004-002245-12 and nct00110123.
4443,staphylococcus aureus and candida albicans infection (animal experiments).,during a certain period of the course of infection in white mice inoculated intraperitoneally with the pure culture of a proteolysing strain of candida albicans  staphylococcus aureus and c. albicans both  were isolated simultaneously from the peritoneal abscesses  especially those adhering to the stomach  duodenum  pancreas and the upper part of small intestine. this concommitant occurrence of the two pathogens was further corroborated by histopathological examination which revealed large number of staphylococci present in the close neighbourhood of candida cells  usually in the center of the granulomata caused by the fungus. in view of the facts that the proteolytic end-products of c. albicans can offer a good substratum for the growth of s. aureus and the latter may be isolated from the intestinal tract of apparently healthy mice  possibly as a constituent of the transient microflora  the co-existence of these two important aetiologic agents of endogenous infections as encountered during this study appears to be of great clinical interest. furthermore  these observations also demonstrate the importance of controlling the bacterial flora of mice for pure mycological studies.
4445,isonicotinamide enhances sir2 protein-mediated silencing and longevity in yeast by raising intracellular nad+ concentration.,sirtuins are an evolutionarily conserved family of nad(+)-dependent protein deacetylases that function in the regulation of gene transcription  cellular metabolism  and aging. their activity requires the maintenance of an adequate intracellular nad(+) concentration through the combined action of nad(+) biosynthesis and salvage pathways. nicotinamide (nam) is a key nad(+) precursor that is also a byproduct and feedback inhibitor of the deacetylation reaction. in saccharomyces cerevisiae  the nicotinamidase pnc1 converts nam to nicotinic acid (na)  which is then used as a substrate by the nad(+) salvage pathway enzyme na phosphoribosyltransferase (npt1). isonicotinamide (inam) is an isostere of nam that stimulates yeast sir2 deacetylase activity in vitro by alleviating the nam inhibition. in this study  we determined that inam stimulates sir2 through an additional mechanism in vivo  which involves elevation of the intracellular nad(+) concentration. inam enhanced normal silencing at the rdna locus but only partially suppressed the silencing defects of an npt1δ mutant. yeast cells grown in media lacking na had a short replicative life span  which was extended by inam in a sir2-dependent manner and correlated with increased nad(+). the inam-induced increase in nad(+) was strongly dependent on pnc1 and npt1  suggesting that inam increases flux through the nad(+) salvage pathway. part of this effect was mediated by the nr salvage pathways  which generate nam as a product and require pnc1 to produce nad(+). we also provide evidence suggesting that inam influences the expression of multiple nad(+) biosynthesis and salvage pathways to promote homeostasis during stationary phase.
4447,the therapeutic promise of the cancer stem cell concept.,cancer stem cells (cscs) are a subpopulation of tumor cells that selectively possess tumor initiation and self-renewal capacity and the ability to give rise to bulk populations of nontumorigenic cancer cell progeny through differentiation. as we discuss here  they have been prospectively identified in several human malignancies  and their relative abundance in clinical cancer specimens has been correlated with malignant disease progression in human patients. furthermore  recent findings suggest that clinical cancer progression driven by cscs may contribute to the failure of existing therapies to consistently eradicate malignant tumors. therefore  csc-directed therapeutic approaches might represent translationally relevant strategies to improve clinical cancer therapy  in particular for those malignancies that are currently refractory to conventional anticancer agents directed predominantly at tumor bulk populations.
4449,structure and developmental regulation of golli-mbp  a 105-kilobase gene that encompasses the myelin basic protein gene and is expressed in cells in the oligodendrocyte lineage in the brain.,we have identified a novel transcription unit of 105 kilobases (called the golli-mbp gene) that encompasses the mouse myelin basic protein (mbp) gene. three unique exons within this gene are alternatively spliced into mbp exons and introns to produce a family of mbp gene-related mrnas that are under individual developmental regulation. these mrnas are temporally expressed within cells of the oligodendrocyte lineage at progressive stages of differentiation. thus  the mbp gene is a part of a more complex gene structure  the products of which may play a role in oligodendrocyte differentiation prior to myelination. one golli-mbp mrna that encodes a protein antigenically related to mbp is also expressed in the spleen and other non-neural tissues.
4451,early loss of interneurons and delayed subunit-specific changes in gaba(a)-receptor expression in a mouse model of mesial temporal lobe epilepsy.,unilateral injection of kainic acid (ka) into the dorsal hippocampus of adult mice induces spontaneous recurrent partial seizures and replicates histopathological changes observed in human mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (mtle) (bouilleret v et al.  neuroscience 1999; 89:717-729). alterations in pre- and postsynaptic components of gabaergic neurotransmission were investigated immunohistochemically at different time points (1-120 days) in this mouse model of mtle. markers of gabaergic interneurons (parvalbumin  calbindin-d28k  and calretinin)  the type-1 gaba transporter (gat1)  and major gaba(a)-receptor subunits expressed in the hippocampal formation were analyzed. acutely  ka injection produced a profound loss of hilar cells but only limited damage to ca1 and ca3 pyramidal cells. in addition  parvalbumin and calbindin-d28k staining of interneurons disappeared irreversibly in ca1 and dentate gyrus (dg)  whereas calretinin staining was spared. the prominent gaba(a)-receptor alpha1 subunit staining of interneurons also disappeared after ka treatment  suggesting acute degeneration of these cells. likewise  gat1 immunoreactivity revealed degenerating terminals at 24 h post-ka in ca1 and dc and subsided almost completely thereafter. loss of ca1 and  to a lesser extent  ca3 neurons became evident at 7-15 days post-ka. it was more accentuated after 1 month  accompanied by a corresponding reduction of gaba(a)-receptor staining. in contrast  dc granule cells were markedly enlarged and dispersed in the molecular layer and exhibited a prominent increase in gaba(a)-receptor subunit staining. after 4 months  the dorsal ca1 area was lost almost entirely  ca3 was reduced  and the dg represented most of the remaining dorsal hippocampal formation. no significant morphological alterations were detected contralaterally. these results suggest that loss of hilar cells and gabaergic neurons contributes to epileptogenesis in this model of mtle. in contrast  long-term degeneration of pyramidal cells and granule cell dispersion may reflect distinct responses to recurrent seizures. finally  gaba(a)-receptor upregulation in the dg may represent a compensatory response persisting for several months in epileptic mice.
4453,a common signal patch drives ap-1 protein-dependent golgi export of inwardly rectifying potassium channels.,nearly all members of the inwardly rectifying potassium (kir) channel family share a cytoplasmic domain structure that serves as an unusual ap-1 clathrin adaptor-dependent golgi export signal in one kir channel  kir2.1 (kcnj2)  raising the question whether kir channels share a common golgi export mechanism. here we explore this idea  focusing on two structurally and functionally divergent kir family members  kir2.3 (kcnj4) and kir4.1/5.1 (kcnj10/16)  which have ∼50% amino identity. we found that golgi export of both channels is blocked upon sirna-mediated knockdown of the ap-1 γ subunit  as predicted for the common ap-1-dependent trafficking process. a comprehensive mutagenic analysis  guided by homology mapping in atomic resolution models of kir2.1  kir2.3  and kir4.1/5.1  identified a common structure that serves as a recognition site for ap-1 binding and governs golgi export. larger than realized from previous studies with kir2.1  the signal is created by a patch of residues distributed at the confluence of cytoplasmic n and c termini. the signal involves a stretch of hydrophobic residues from the c-terminal region that form a hydrophobic cleft  an adjacent cluster of basic residues within the n terminus  and a potential network of salt bridges that join the n- and c-terminal poles together. because patch formation and ap-1 binding are dependent on proper folding of the cytoplasmic domains  the signal provides a common quality control mechanism at the golgi for kir channels. these findings identify a new proteostatic mechanism that couples protein folding of channels to forward trafficking in the secretory pathway.
4455,metabolic analysis of senescent human fibroblasts reveals a role for amp in cellular senescence.,cellular senescence is considered a major tumour-suppressor mechanism in mammals  and many oncogenic insults  such as the activation of the ras proto-oncogene  trigger initiation of the senescence programme. although it was shown that activation of the senescence programme involves the up-regulation of cell-cycle regulators such as the inhibitors of cyclin-dependent kinases p16ink4a and p21cip-1  the mechanisms underlying the senescence response remain to be resolved. in the case of stress-induced premature senescence  reactive oxygen species are considered important intermediates contributing to the phenotype. moreover  distinct alterations of the cellular carbohydrate metabolism are known to contribute to oncogenic transformation  as is best documented for the phenomenon of aerobic glycolysis. these findings suggest that metabolic alterations are involved in tumourigenesis and tumour suppression; however  little is known about the metabolic pathways that contribute to these processes. using the human fibroblast model of in vitro senescence  we analysed age-dependent changes in the cellular carbohydrate metabolism. here we show that senescent fibroblasts enter into a metabolic imbalance  associated with a strong reduction in the levels of ribonucleotide triphosphates  including atp  which are required for nucleotide biosynthesis and hence proliferation. atp depletion in senescent fibroblasts is due to dysregulation of glycolytic enzymes  and finally leads to a drastic increase in cellular amp  which is shown here to induce premature senescence. these results suggest that metabolic regulation plays an important role during cellular senescence and hence tumour suppression.
4457,high-resolution peripheral quantitative computed tomographic imaging of cortical and trabecular bone microarchitecture in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.,context cross-sectional epidemiological studies have found that patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (t2dm) have a higher incidence of certain fragility fractures despite normal or elevated bone mineral density (bmd). objective in this study  high-resolution peripheral quantitative computed tomography was applied to characterize cortical and trabecular microarchitecture and biomechanics in the peripheral skeleton of female patients with t2dm. design and setting a cross-sectional study was conducted in patients with t2dm recruited from a diabetic outpatient clinic. participants elderly female patients (age  62.9 ± 7.7 yr) with a history of t2dm (n = 19) and age- and height-matched controls (n = 19) were recruited. outcome measures subjects were imaged using high-resolution peripheral quantitative computed tomography at the distal radius and tibia. quantitative measures of volumetric (bmd)  cross-sectional geometry  trabecular and cortical microarchitecture were calculated. additionally  compressive mechanical properties were determined by micro-finite element analysis. results compared to the controls  the t2dm cohort had 10% higher trabecular volumetric bmd (p < 0.05) adjacent to the cortex and higher trabecular thickness in the tibia (13.8%; p < 0.05). cortical porosity differences alone were consistent with impaired bone strength and were significant in the radius (>+50%; p < 0.05)  whereas pore volume approached significance in the tibia (+118%; p = 0.1). conclusion the results of this pilot investigation provide a potential explanation for the inability of standard bmd measures to explain the elevated fracture incidence in patients with t2dm. the findings suggest that t2dm may be associated with impaired resistance to bending loads due to inefficient redistribution of bone mass  characterized by loss of intracortical bone offset by an elevation in trabecular bone density.
4459,d3 phosphoinositides and outside-in integrin signaling by glycoprotein iib-iiia mediate platelet actin assembly and filopodial extension induced by phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate.,phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (pma) uncaps a small number of the fast-growing (barbed) ends of actin filaments  thereby eliciting slow actin assembly and extension of filopodia in human blood platelets. these reactions  which also occur in response to immunologic perturbation of the integrin glycoprotein (gp) iib-iiia  are sensitive to the phosphoinositide 3-kinase inhibitor wortmannin. platelets deficient in gpiib-iiia integrins or with gpiib-iiia function inhibited by calcium chelation or the peptide rgds have diminished pma responsiveness. the effects of pma contrast with thrombin receptor stimulation by >/=5 microm thrombin receptor-activating peptide (trap)  which causes rapid and massive wortmannin-insensitive actin assembly and lamellar and filopodial extension. however  we show here that wortmannin can inhibit filopod formation if the thrombin receptor is ligated using suboptimal doses (<1 microm) of trap. phosphatidylinositol 3 4-bisphosphate inhibits actin filament severing and capping by human gelsolin in vitro. the findings implicate d3 polyphosphoinositides and integrin signaling in pma-mediated platelet stimulation and implicate d3 containing phosphoinositides generated in response to protein kinase c activation and gpiib-iiia signaling as late-acting intermediates leading to filopodial actin assembly.
4461,banana contains a diverse array of endogenous badnaviruses.,banana streak disease is caused by several distinct badnavirus species  one of which is banana streak obino l'ewai virus. banana streak obino l'ewai virus has severely hindered international banana (musa spp.) breeding programmes  as new hybrids are frequently infected with this virus  curtailing any further exploitation. this infection is thought to arise from viral dna integrated in the nuclear genome of musa balbisiana (b genome)  one of the wild species contributing to many of the banana cultivars currently grown. in order to determine whether the dna of other badnavirus species is integrated in the musa genome  pcr-amplified dna fragments from musa acuminata  m. balbisiana and musa schizocarpa  as well as cultivars 'obino l'ewai' and 'klue tiparot'  were cloned. in total  103 clones were sequenced and all had similarity to open reading frame iii in the badnavirus genome  although there was remarkable variation  with 36 distinct sequences being recognized with less than 85 % nucleotide identity to each other. there was no commonality in the sequences amplified from m. acuminata and m. balbisiana  suggesting that integration occurred following the separation of these species. analysis of rates of non-synonymous and synonymous substitution suggested that the integrated sequences evolved under a high degree of selective constraint as might be expected for a living badnavirus  and that each distinct sequence resulted from an independent integration event.
4463,bp control and left ventricular hypertrophy regression in children with ckd.,in adult patients with ckd  hypertension is linked to the development of left ventricular hypertrophy  but whether this association exists in children with ckd has not been determined conclusively. to assess the relationship between bp and left ventricular hypertrophy  we prospectively analyzed data from the chronic kidney disease in children cohort. in total  478 subjects were enrolled  and 435  321  and 142 subjects remained enrolled at years 1  3  and 5  respectively. echocardiograms were obtained 1 year after study entry and then every 2 years; bp was measured annually. a linear mixed model was used to assess the effect of bp on left ventricular mass index  which was measured at three different visits  and a mixed logistic model was used to assess left ventricular hypertrophy. these models were part of a joint longitudinal and survival model to adjust for informative dropout. predictors of left ventricular mass index included systolic bp  anemia  and use of antihypertensive medications other than angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers. predictors of left ventricular hypertrophy included systolic bp  female sex  anemia  and use of other antihypertensive medications. over 4 years  the adjusted prevalence of left ventricular hypertrophy decreased from 15.3% to 12.6% in a systolic bp model and from 15.1% to 12.6% in a diastolic bp model. these results indicate that a decline in bp may predict a decline in left ventricular hypertrophy in children with ckd and suggest additional factors that warrant additional investigation as predictors of left ventricular hypertrophy in these patients.
4465,loss of subcellular lipid transport due to arv1 deficiency disrupts organelle homeostasis and activates the unfolded protein response.,the arv1-encoded protein mediates sterol transport from the endoplasmic reticulum (er) to the plasma membrane. yeast arv1 mutants accumulate multiple lipids in the er and are sensitive to pharmacological modulators of both sterol and sphingolipid metabolism. using fluorescent and electron microscopy  we demonstrate sterol accumulation  subcellular membrane expansion  elevated lipid droplet formation  and vacuolar fragmentation in arv1 mutants. motif-based regression analysis of arv1 deletion transcription profiles indicates activation of hac1p  an integral component of the unfolded protein response (upr). accordingly  we show constitutive splicing of hac1 transcripts  induction of a upr reporter  and elevated expression of upr targets in arv1 mutants. ire1  encoding the unfolded protein sensor in the er lumen  exhibits a lethal genetic interaction with arv1  indicating a viability requirement for the upr in cells lacking arv1. surprisingly  arv1 mutants expressing a variant of ire1p defective in sensing unfolded proteins are viable. moreover  these strains also exhibit constitutive hac1 splicing that interacts with dtt-mediated perturbation of protein folding. these data suggest that a component of upr induction in arv1δ strains is distinct from protein misfolding. decreased arv1 expression in murine macrophages also results in upr induction  particularly up-regulation of activating transcription factor-4  chop (c/ebp homologous protein)  and apoptosis. cholesterol loading or inhibition of cholesterol esterification further elevated chop expression in arv1 knockdown cells. thus  loss or down-regulation of arv1 disturbs membrane and lipid homeostasis  resulting in a disruption of er integrity  one consequence of which is induction of the upr.
4467,high-dose recombinant tumor necrosis factor alpha in combination with interferon gamma and melphalan in isolation perfusion of the limbs for melanoma and sarcoma.,purpose to determine the toxicity and the therapeutic efficacy of the combination of the recombinant tumor necrosis factor alpha (rtnf alpha)  recombinant interferon gamma (rifn-gamma)  and melphalan  we designed a protocol using isolation limb perfusion (ilp) with hyperthermia for in-transit metastases of melanoma and recurrent sarcoma. the triple combination was chosen because of the reported synergistic antitumor effect of rtnf alpha with ifn-gamma and of rtnf alpha with alkylating agents. patients and methods twenty-three patients received a total of 25 ilps with the triple combination. there were 19 females and four males with either multiple progressive in-transit melanoma metastases of the extremities (stage iiia or iiiab; 19 patients) or recurrent soft tissue sarcoma (five). the rtnf alpha was injected as a bolus in the arterial line  and total dose ranged between 2 and 4 mg  under hyperthermic conditions (40 degrees c to 40.5 degrees c) for 90 minutes. the rifn-gamma was given subcutaneously (sc) on days -2 and -1 and in the perfusate  with rtnf alpha at the dose of 0.2 mg. melphalan (alkeran; burroughs wellcome co  london  england) was administered in the perfusate at 40 micrograms/ml.   results toxicity observed during three ilps in a pilot study with rtnf alpha included only two severe toxicities: one severe hypotension with tachycardia and transient oliguria and one moderate hypotension for 4 hours followed by severe kidney failure with complete recovery on day 29. in all 18 ilps performed in the triple combination protocol  the patients received continuous infusion dopamine at 3 micrograms/kg/min from the start of ilp and for 72 hours and showed only mild hypotension and transient chills and temperature. regional toxicity attributable to rtnf alpha was minimal. there have been 11 cases with hematologic toxicity consisting of neutropenia (one grade 4 and one grade 3) and neutropenia with thrombocytopenia (one grade 4 and three grade 2). twelve patients had been previously treated with melphalan in ilp (11) or with cisplatin (one). the 23 patients are assessable: there have been 21 complete responses (crs; range  4 to 29 months; 89%)  two partial responses (prs; range  2 to 3 months)  and no failures. overall disease-free survival and survival have been 70% and 76%  respectively  at 12 months. in all cases  softening of the nodules was obvious within 3 days after ilp and time to definite response ranged between day 5 and 30. conclusion this preliminary analysis of a phase ii study suggests that high-dose rtnf alpha can be administered with acceptable toxicity by ilp with dopamine and hyperhydration. tumor responses can be evidenced in melanoma and sarcoma. furthermore  combination of rtnf alpha  rifn-gamma  and melphalan seems to achieve high efficacy with minimal toxicity  even after failure of prior therapy with melphalan alone.
4469,generation of induced pluripotent stem cells from asian patients with chronic neurodegenerative diseases.,induced pluripotent stem (ips) cells derived from disease patients are an invaluable resource for biomedical research and may provide a source for replacement therapies. in this study  we have generated ips cells from asian patients with chronic degenerative diseases of the nervous system  including spinal muscular atrophy (sma)  parkinson disease (pd) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (als) by transduction with four factors (klf4  sox2  oct4 and c-myc). all of the ips cells showed pluripotency similar to that of human embryonic stem cells (hescs) and were able to differentiate into various somatic cell types in vitro and in vivo. furthermore  the ips cells also can be committed to differentiate into neural cells  the cell type that is affected in chronic degenerative diseases. therefore  the patient-specific ips cells we generated offer a cellular model in which to investigate disease mechanisms  discover and test novel drugs and develop new therapies for chronic neurodegenerative diseases.
4471,kinetic evidence for rapid oxidation of (-)-epicatechin by human myeloperoxidase.,apocynin has been reported to require dimerization by myeloperoxidase (mpo) to inhibit leukocyte nadph oxidase. (-)-epicatechin  a dietary flavan-3-ol  has been identified as a 'prodrug' of apocynin-like metabolites that inhibit endothelial nadph oxidase activity and elevate the cellular level of nitric oxide. since (-)-epicatechin has tentatively been identified as substrate of mpo  we studied the one-electron oxidation of (-)-epicatechin by mpo. by using multi-mixing stopped-flow technique  we demonstrate that (-)-epicatechin is one of the most efficient electron donors for heme peroxidases investigated so far. second order rate constants for the (-)-epicatechin-mediated conversion of mpo-compound i to compound ii and compound ii to resting enzyme were estimated to be 1.9 x 10(7) and 4.5 x 10(6) m(-1)s(-1)  respectively (ph 7  25 degrees c). the data indicate that (-)-epicatechin is capable of undergoing fast mpo-mediated one-electron oxidation.
4473,tyrosine phosphorylation and regulation of the ampa receptor by src family tyrosine kinases.,phosphorylation of ampa receptors is a major mechanism for the regulation of receptor function and underlies several forms of synaptic plasticity in the cns. although serine and threonine phosphorylation of ampa receptors has been well studied  the potential role of tyrosine phosphorylation of ampa receptors has not been investigated. here  we show that the glur2 subunit of ampa receptors is tyrosine phosphorylated in vitro and in vivo by src family tyrosine kinases on tyrosine 876 near its c terminus. in addition  glur agonist treatment of cultured cortical neurons increased phosphorylation of tyrosine 876. the association with glur2-interacting molecules grip1/2 was decreased by tyrosine phosphorylation of glur2  whereas pick1 interaction was not influenced. moreover  mutation of tyrosine 876 eliminated ampa- and nmda-induced internalization of the glur2 subunit. these data indicate that tyrosine phosphorylation of tyrosine 876 on the glur2 c terminus by src family tyrosine kinases is important for the regulation of ampa receptor function and may be important for synaptic plasticity.
4475,cd8+ t cells are activated in an antigen-independent manner in hiv-infected individuals.,hyperactivation of t cells  particularly of cd8(+) t cells  is a hallmark of chronic hiv 1 (hiv-1) infection. little is known about the antigenic specificities and the mechanisms by which hiv-1 causes activation of cd8(+) t cells during chronic infection. we report that cd8(+) t cells were activated during in vivo hiv-1 replication irrespective of their ag specificity. cytokines present during untreated hiv-1 infection  most prominently il-15  triggered proliferation and expression of activation markers in cd8(+) t cells  but not cd4(+) t cells  in the absence of tcr stimulation. moreover  lps or hiv-1-activated dendritic cells (dcs) stimulated cd8(+) t cells in an il-15-dependent but ag-independent manner  and il-15 expression was highly increased in dcs isolated from viremic hiv-1 patients  suggesting that cd8(+) t cells are activated by inflammatory cytokines in untreated hiv-1 patients independent of ag specificity. this finding contrasts with cd4(+) t cells whose in vivo activation seems biased toward specificities for persistent ags. these observations explain the higher abundance of activated cd8(+) t cells compared with cd4(+) t cells in untreated hiv-1 infection.
4477,mortality risk in patients with dementia treated with antipsychotics versus other psychiatric medications.,objective mortality rates in the year following new antipsychotic medication starts for neuropsychiatric symptoms of dementia were compared with rates after starts of other psychiatric medications. method the retrospective  cohort study used national data from the department of veterans affairs (fiscal years 2001-2005) on patients older than 65 years who began outpatient treatment with psychiatric medication following a dementia diagnosis (n=10 615). twelve-month mortality rates were compared in patients taking antipsychotics and those taking other psychiatric medications. the authors controlled for confounding by using multivariate models and propensity-scoring methods. secondary analyses included a no-medication group and examination of mortality causes. results all groups taking antipsychotics had significantly higher mortality rates (22.6%-29.1%) than patients taking nonantipsychotic medications (14.6%). adjusted mortality risks for atypicals and for combined atypical and conventional antipsychotics were similar to those for conventional antipsychotics. the mortality risk was significantly lower for nonantipsychotic medications than conventional antipsychotics. except for anticonvulsants  the adjusted risks for all individual classes of nonantipsychotics were significantly lower than the risk for antipsychotics. mortality risks did not change over 12 months. the proportions of patients taking antipsychotics who died from cerebrovascular  cardiovascular  or infectious causes were not higher than rates for those taking nonantipsychotic psychiatric medications. conclusions antipsychotic medications taken by patients with dementia were associated with higher mortality rates than were most other medications used for neuropsychiatric symptoms. the association between mortality and antipsychotics is not well understood and may be due to a direct medication effect or the pathophysiology underlying neuropsychiatric symptoms that prompt antipsychotic use.
4479,a wellness class for inpatients with psychotic disorders.,objective the purpose of this project was to educate inpatients with psychotic disorders  many of whom were taking second-generation antipsychotics  about lifestyle changes they can make to combat weight gain. method all inpatients on a veterans affairs acute inpatient schizophrenia treatment unit were invited to a 30-minute  didactic presentation given by a medical student and a psychology student under the supervision of the primary investigator. the topics covered included the health benefits of maintaining an ideal body weight by selecting foods according to the usda food pyramid  determining adequate food portions  choosing healthy meals outside the home  and beginning and adhering to an exercise program. subjects completed a 13-item quiz concerning their knowledge of food and nutrition before and after the presentation to determine its efficacy in teaching patients the material. results fifty patients completed both the pre- and post-presentation tests. the mean percentage of correct answers on the pre-test was 85.6%  which rose to 89.3% on the post-test. this difference of 3.7% was statistically significant (t = 2.43  df = 49  p < 0.02)  and the mean percent of improvement was 6.1%. conclusions this study demonstrates that psychotic individuals are able to benefit from educational presentations about nutrition and a healthy lifestyle. a statistically significant improvement in test scores suggests that subjects gained an understanding of basic concepts related to food choices and fitness.
4481,expansion and deletion of ctg repeats from human disease genes are determined by the direction of replication in e. coli,several human hereditary neurological and neurodegenerative disease genes are associated with the expansion of ctg repeats. here we show that the frequency of genetic expansions or deletions in escherichia coli depends on the direction of replication. large expansions occur predominantly when the ctgs are in the leading strand template rather than the lagging strand. however  deletions are more prominant when the ctgs are in the opposite orientation. most deletions generated products of defined size classes. strand slippage coupled with non–classical dma structures may account for these observations and relate to expansion–deletion mechanisms in eukaryotic chromosomes for disease genes.
4483,katanin p60-like1 promotes microtubule growth and terminal dendrite stability in the larval class iv sensory neurons of drosophila.,dendrite shape is considered a defining component of neuronal function. yet  the mechanisms specifying diverse dendritic morphologies  and the extent to which their function depends on these morphologies  remain unclear. here  we demonstrate a requirement for the microtubule-severing protein katanin p60-like 1 (kat-60l1) in regulating the elaborate dendrite morphology and nocifensive functions of drosophila larval class iv dendritic arborization neurons. kat-60l1 mutants exhibit diminished responsiveness to noxious mechanical and thermal stimuli. class iv dendrite branch number and length are also reduced  supporting a correspondence between neuronal function and the full extent of the dendritic arbor. these arborization defects occur particularly in late larval development  and live imaging reveals that kat-60l1 is required for dynamic  filopodia-like nascent branches to stabilize during this stage. mutant dendrites exhibit fewer eb1-gfp-labeled microtubules  suggesting that kat-60l1 increases polymerizing microtubules to establish terminal branch stability and full arbor complexity. although loss of the related microtubule-severing protein spastin also reduces the class iv dendrite arbor  microtubule polymerization within dendrites is unaffected. conversely  spastin overexpression destroys stable microtubules within these neurons  while kat-60l1 has no effect. kat-60l1 thus sculpts the class iv dendritic arbor through microtubule regulatory mechanisms distinct from spastin. our data support differential roles of microtubule-severing proteins in regulating neuronal morphology and function  and provide evidence that dendritic arbor development is the product of multiple pathways functioning at distinct developmental stages.
4485,decrease of learning capacity in offspring with increasing paternal age in the rat.,the same 15 male wistar rats at the ages of 2.5  6  10  14  18  and 22 months were successively randomly mated with 2.5-month-old females. in a separate experiment  15 male wistar rats at the age of 2.5 months and 15 at the age of 23 months were simultaneously randomly mated with 2.5-month-old females. offspring were evaluated in regard to the mean number per litter  sex ratio  frequency of gross external malformations  growth pattern  and mortality in the first 13 weeks of life and reproductive capacity at 13 weeks of age. they were also evaluated for spontaneous activity and emotionality with an open field test and for learning capacity with an avoidance conditioning test  both carried out between 10 and 13 weeks of age. only learning capacity of the offspring  expressed in percentage of success for male or female  decreased consistently and significantly as the father's age increased. but females did not seem to be affected in the same way as males. the genetic implications are briefly discussed.
4487,pharmaceutical public-private partnerships in the united states and europe: moving from the bench to the bedside,both to address unmet medical needs and to improve industry competitiveness  regulators in both the united states and the european union have taken bold steps to translate academic research from the university lab to the patient. a pharmaceutical public-private partnership (pppp)  which is a legally binding contract between a private pharmaceutical enterprise and a public research university (or a private university doing research funded with public funds)  can be a significant tool to ensure a more efficient payoff in the highly regulated world of pharmaceuticals. in particular  a properly framed binding contract  coupled with respect for positive social norms  can move the parties away from an inefficient prisoners’ dilemma nash equilibrium to the pareto optimal frontier. when coupled with appropriate attention to the difficult task of coordinating the actions of interdependent actors  a pppp arrangement can enhance the likelihood of successful commercialization by flipping the parties’ incentives as compared with more traditional contracts. because pppps are less common in europe than in the united states  a key purpose of this article is to provide an annotated roadmap that universities  private firms  and eu policy makers can use to create efficient pppps to enhance for-profit innovation in the pharmaceutical industry in europe. a secondary purpose is to suggest amendments to the u.s. laws governing the patenting of government-funded technology to prevent undue burdens on the sharing of certain upstream medical discoveries and research tools. our analysis is not only comparative; it also combines  we believe for the first time  a game theory and law and management approach to for-profit pppps.
4489,age- and sex-specific genomic profiles in non-small cell lung cancer.,context gene expression profiling may be useful in examining differences underlying age- and sex-specific outcomes in non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc). objective to describe clinically relevant differences in the underlying biology of nsclc based on patient age and sex. design  setting  and patients retrospective analysis of 787 patients with predominantly early stage nsclc performed at duke university  durham  north carolina  from july 2008 to june 2009. lung tumor samples with corresponding microarray and clinical data were used. all patients were divided into subgroups based on age (< 70 vs > or = 70 years old) or sex. gene expression signatures representing oncogenic pathway activation and tumor biology/microenvironment status were applied to these samples to obtain patterns of activation/deregulation. main outcome measures patterns of oncogenic and molecular signaling pathway activation that are reproducible and correlate with 5-year recurrence-free patient survival. results low- and high-risk patient clusters/cohorts were identified with the longest and shortest 5-year recurrence-free survival  respectively  within the age and sex nsclc subgroups. these cohorts of nsclc demonstrate similar patterns of pathway activation. in patients younger than 70 years  high-risk patients  with the shortest recurrence-free survival  demonstrated increased activation of the src (25% vs 6%; p<.001) and tumor necrosis factor (76% vs 42%; p<.001) pathways compared with low-risk patients. high-risk patients aged 70 years or older demonstrated increased activation of the wound healing (40% vs 24%; p = .02) and invasiveness (64% vs 20%; p<.001) pathways compared with low-risk patients. in women  high-risk patients demonstrated increased activation of the invasiveness (99% vs 2%; p<.001) and stat3 (72% vs 35%; p<.001) pathways while high-risk men demonstrated increased activation of the stat3 (87% vs 18%; p<.001)  tumor necrosis factor (90% vs 46%; p<.001)  egfr (13% vs 2%; p = .003)  and wound healing (50% vs 22%; p<.001) pathways. multivariate analyses confirmed the independent clinical relevance of the pathway-based subphenotypes in women (hazard ratio [hr]  2.02; 95% confidence interval [ci]  1.34-3.03; p<.001) and patients younger than 70 years (hr  1.83; 95% ci  1.24-2.71; p = .003). all observations were reproducible in split sample analyses. conclusions among a cohort of patients with nsclc  subgroups defined by oncogenic pathway activation profiles were associated with recurrence-free survival. these findings require validation in independent patient data sets.
4491,purification and activation properties of ured-uref-urease apoprotein complexes.,in vivo assembly of the klebsiella aerogenes urease nickel metallocenter requires the presence of ured  uref  and ureg accessory proteins and is further facilitated by uree. prior studies had shown that urease apoprotein exists in an uncomplexed form as well as in a series of ured-urease (i.-s. park  m.b. carr  and r.p. hausinger  proc. natl. acad. sci. usa 91:3233-3237  1994) and ured-uref-ureg-urease (i.-s. park and r.p. hausinger  j. bacteriol. 177:1947-1951  1995) apoprotein complexes. this study demonstrates the existence of a distinct series of complexes consisting of ured  uref  and urease apoprotein. these novel complexes exhibited activation properties that were distinct from urease and ured-urease apoprotein complexes. unlike the previously described species  the ured-uref-urease apoprotein complexes were resistant to inactivation by nicl2. the bicarbonate concentration dependence for ured-uref-urease apoenzyme activation was significantly decreased compared with that of the urease and ured-urease apoproteins. western blot (immunoblot) analyses with polyclonal anti-urease and anti-ured antibodies indicated that ured is masked in the ured-uref-urease complexes  presumably by uref. we propose that the binding of uref modulates the ured-urease apoprotein activation properties by excluding nickel ions from binding to the active site until after formation of the carbamylated lysine metallocenter ligand.
4493,t-cell activation.,introduction • • cellular and molecular requirements for t-cell activation . the t-cell antigen receptor complex . . . .. . . . ..... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...... . . . t-cell activation by antibodies and leetins . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . other cell surface structures (accessory molecules) involved in antigen recognition and activation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . minimal requirements/or t-cell activation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . conseque�ces o�  t-cell ac::iv a tion ; . expression of activation anllgens . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . mechanisms of signal transmission via the tcr complex . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . the mode of control of gene expression during t-cell activation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . the mechanism of action of il-2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . acquisition of cytolytic activity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . analogies with immature t cells .
4495,downstream of mutant kras  the transcription regulator yap is essential for neoplastic progression to pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma,pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (pdac) is an aggressive cancer with poor survival rates and frequently carries oncogenic kras mutation. however  kras has thus far not been a viable therapeutic target. we found that the abundance of yap mrna  which encodes yes-associated protein (yap)  a protein regulated by the hippo pathway during tissue development and homeostasis  was increased in human pdac tissue compared with that in normal pancreatic epithelia. in genetically engineered krasg12d and krasg12d:trp53r172h mouse models  pancreas-specific deletion of yap halted the progression of early neoplastic lesions to pdac without affecting normal pancreatic development and endocrine function. although yap was dispensable for acinar to ductal metaplasia (adm)  an initial step in the progression to pdac  yap was critically required for the proliferation of mutant kras or kras:trp53 neoplastic pancreatic ductal cells in culture and for their growth and progression to invasive pdac in mice. yap functioned as a critical transcriptional switch downstream of the oncogenic kras–mitogen-activated protein kinase (mapk) pathway  promoting the expression of genes encoding secretory factors that cumulatively sustained neoplastic proliferation  a tumorigenic stromal response in the tumor microenvironment  and pdac progression in kras and kras:trp53 mutant pancreas tissue. together  our findings identified yap as a critical oncogenic kras effector and a promising therapeutic target for pdac and possibly other types of kras-mutant cancers.
4497,visualizing the function and fate of neutrophils in sterile injury and repair,neutrophils have been implicated as harmful cells in a variety of inappropriate inflammatory conditions where they injure the host  leading to the death of the neutrophils and their subsequent phagocytosis by monocytes and macrophages. here we show that in a fully repairing sterile thermal hepatic injury  neutrophils also penetrate the injury site and perform the critical tasks of dismantling injured vessels and creating channels for new vascular regrowth. upon completion of these tasks  they neither die at the injury site nor are phagocytosed. instead  many of these neutrophils reenter the vasculature and have a preprogrammed journey that entails a sojourn in the lungs to up-regulate cxcr4 (c-x-c motif chemokine receptor 4) before entering the bone marrow  where they undergo apoptosis.
4499,role of 5-ht in the regulation of the brain-pituitary-adrenal axis: effects of 5-ht on adrenocortical cells.,serotonin (5-ht) plays a pivotal role in the regulation of the brain-pituitary-adrenal axis. in particular  5-ht has been shown to control the activity of hypothalamic crf neurons and pituitary corticotrope cells through activation of 5-ht1a and (or) 5-ht(2a/2c) receptor subtypes. 5-ht  acting through 5-ht2 receptors  can also trigger the renin-angiotensin system by stimulating renin secretion and consequently can enhance aldosterone production. at the adrenal level  5-ht produced locally stimulates the secretory activity of adrenocortical cells through a paracrine mode of communication. the presence of 5-ht in the adrenal gland has been demonstrated immunohistochemically and biochemically in various species. in the frog  rat  and pig adrenal gland  5-ht is synthesized by chromaffin cells  while in the mouse adrenal cortex  5-ht is contained in nerve fibers. in man  5-ht is present in perivascular mast cells. in vivo and in vitro studies have shown that 5-ht stimulates corticosteroid secretion in various species (including human). the type of receptor involved in the mechanism of action of 5-ht differs between the various species. in frogs and humans  the stimulatory effect of 5-ht on adrenocortical cells is mediated through a 5-ht4 receptor subtype positively coupled to adenylyl cyclase and calcium influx. in the rat  the effect of 5-ht on aldosterone secretion is mediated via activation of 5-ht7 receptors. clinical studies indicate that 5-ht4 receptor agonists stimulate aldosterone secretion in healthy volunteers and in patients with corticotropic insufficiency and primary hyperaldosteronism. local serotonergic control of corticosteroid production may be involved in the physiological control of the activity of the adrenal cortex as well as in the pathophysiology of cortisol and aldosterone disorders.
4501,human and murine very small embryonic-like cells represent multipotent tissue progenitors  in vitro and in vivo.,the purpose of this study was to determine the lineage progression of human and murine very small embryonic-like (huvsel or muvsel) cells in vitro and in vivo. in vitro  huvsel and muvsel cells differentiated into cells of all three embryonic germ layers. huvsel cells produced robust mineralized tissue of human origin compared with controls in calvarial defects. immunohistochemistry demonstrated that the huvsel cells gave rise to neurons  adipocytes  chondrocytes  and osteoblasts within the calvarial defects. muvsel cells were also able to differentiate into similar lineages. first round serial transplants of muvsel cells into irradiated osseous sites demonstrated that ∼60% of the cells maintained their vsel cell phenotype while other cells differentiated into multiple tissues at 3 months. secondary transplants did not identify donor vsel cells  suggesting limited self renewal but did demonstrate vsel cell derivatives in situ for up to 1 year. at no point were teratomas identified. these studies show that vsel cells produce multiple cellular structures in vivo and in vitro and lay the foundation for future cell-based regenerative therapies for osseous  neural  and connective tissue disorders.
4503,genome-wide rnai screen of ca(2+) influx identifies genes that regulate ca(2+) release-activated ca(2+) channel activity.,recent studies by our group and others demonstrated a required and conserved role of stim in store-operated ca(2+) influx and ca(2+) release-activated ca(2+) (crac) channel activity. by using an unbiased genome-wide rna interference screen in drosophila s2 cells  we now identify 75 hits that strongly inhibited ca(2+) influx upon store emptying by thapsigargin. among these hits are 11 predicted transmembrane proteins  including stim  and one  olf186-f  that upon rna interference-mediated knockdown exhibited a profound reduction of thapsigargin-evoked ca(2+) entry and crac current  and upon overexpression a 3-fold augmentation of crac current. crac currents were further increased to 8-fold higher than control and developed more rapidly when olf186-f was cotransfected with stim. olf186-f is a member of a highly conserved family of four-transmembrane spanning proteins with homologs from caenorhabditis elegans to human. the endoplasmic reticulum (er) ca(2+) pump sarco-/er calcium atpase (serca) and the single transmembrane-soluble n-ethylmaleimide-sensitive (nsf) attachment receptor (snare) protein syntaxin5 also were required for crac channel activity  consistent with a signaling pathway in which stim senses ca(2+) depletion within the er  translocates to the plasma membrane  and interacts with olf186-f to trigger crac channel activity.
4505,subpopulations of mouse blood monocytes differ in maturation stage and inflammatory response.,blood monocytes are well-characterized precursors for macrophages and dendritic cells. subsets of human monocytes with differential representation in various disease states are well known. in contrast  mouse monocyte subsets have been characterized minimally. in this study we identify three subpopulations of mouse monocytes that can be distinguished by differential expression of ly-6c  cd43  cd11c  mbr  and cd62l. the subsets share the characteristics of extensive phagocytosis  similar expression of m-csf receptor (cd115)  and development into macrophages upon m-csf stimulation. by eliminating blood monocytes with dichloromethylene-bisphosphonate-loaded liposomes and monitoring their repopulation  we showed a developmental relationship between the subsets. monocytes were maximally depleted 18 h after liposome application and subsequently reappeared in the circulation. these cells were exclusively of the ly-6c(high) subset  resembling bone marrow monocytes. serial flow cytometric analyses of newly released ly-6c(high) monocytes showed that ly-6c expression on these cells was down-regulated while in circulation. under inflammatory conditions elicited either by acute infection with listeria monocytogenes or chronic infection with leishmania major  there was a significant increase in immature ly-6c(high) monocytes  resembling the inflammatory left shift of granulocytes. in addition  acute peritoneal inflammation recruited preferentially ly-6c(med-high) monocytes. taken together  these data identify distinct subpopulations of mouse blood monocytes that differ in maturation stage and capacity to become recruited to inflammatory sites.
4507,the in vitro phosphorylation of p53 by calcium-dependent protein kinase c--characterization of a protein-kinase-c-binding site on p53.,we show that  in vitro  ca2+-dependent protein kinase c (pkc) phosphorylates recombinant murine p53 protein on several residues contained within a conserved basic region of 25 amino acids  located in the c-terminal part of the protein. accordingly  synthetic p53-(357-381)-peptide is phosphorylated by pkc at multiple ser and thr residues  including ser360  thr365  ser370 and thr377. we also establish that p53-(357-381)-peptide at micromolar concentrations has the ability to stimulate sequence-specific dna binding by p53. that stimulation is lost upon phosphorylation by pkc. to further characterise the mechanisms that regulate pkc-dependent phosphorylation of p53-(357-381)-peptide  the phosphorylation of recombinant p53 and p53-(357-381)-peptide by pkc were compared. the results suggest that phosphorylation of full-length p53 on the c-terminal pkc sites is highly dependent on the accessibility of the phosphorylation sites and that a domain on p53 distinct from p53-(357-381)-peptide is involved in binding pkc. accordingly  we have identified a conserved 27-amino-acid peptide  p53-(320-346)-peptide  within the c-terminal region of p53 and adjacent to residues 357-381 that interacts with pkc in vitro. the interaction between p53-(320-346)-peptide and pkc inhibits pkc autophosphorylation and the phosphorylation of substrates  including p53-(357-381)-peptide  neurogranin and histone h1. conventional ca2+-dependent pkc alpha  beta and gamma and the catalytic fragment of pkc (pkm) were nearly equally susceptible to inhibition by p53-(320-346)-peptide. the ca2+-independent pkc delta was much less sensitive to inhibition. the significance of these findings for understanding the in vivo phosphorylation of p53 by pkc are discussed.
4509,drug-resistant salmonella in the united states: an epidemiologic perspective.,salmonellosis poses a health problem of large proportions in the united states. annually  it accounts for more than 40 000 reported cases  500 deaths  and financial costs well in excess of $50 million. antimicrobial resistance is increasing in salmonella strains  a finding that has important public health implications. although the chain of transmission of the bacteria is often complex  combined epidemiologic and laboratory studies with the use of new methods in molecular biology make it possible to trace antimicrobial-resistant salmonellae to their primary source--foods of animal origin. these studies suggest that the antimicrobial drugs to which food animals are exposed provide selective pressure that leads to the appearance and persistence of resistant strains.
4511,brahma-related gene 1-dependent stat3 recruitment at il-6-inducible genes.,il-6 is an immunoregulatory cytokine with multiple functions in hemopoiesis  proliferation  and tumorigenesis. il-6 triggers phosphorylation  dimerization  and nuclear translocation of stat3  which binds to target promoters and activates transcription. brahma-related gene 1 (brg1)  the enzymatic engine of the yeast-mating type-switching and sucrose-nonfermenting chromatin-remodeling complex  is essential for recruitment of stat1 or stat1/stat2-containing complexes to ifn targets. we hypothesized that brg1 might also be required for stat3 recruitment. in this study  we show that induction of a subset of human il-6-responsive genes is brg1 dependent. brg1 is constitutively present at these targets and is required for stat3 recruitment  downstream histone modifications  and il-6-induced chromatin remodeling. il-6-induced recruitment of stat3 to the ifn regulatory factor 1 promoter and subsequent mrna synthesis is brg1 dependent  even though ifn-gamma-mediated stat1 recruitment to this locus is brg1 independent. brg1 also increased basal expression of ifn-induced transmembrane protein 3 and ifn-gamma-induced protein 16  and the basal chromatin accessibility at the promoter of ifn regulatory factor 1. the effect on basal expression was stat3 independent  as revealed by small interfering rna knockdown. together with prior observations  these data reveal that brg1 has a broad role in mediating stat accessibility at multiple cytokine-responsive promoters and exposes promoter specific differences in both the effect of brg1 on basal chromatin accessibility and on access of different stat proteins to the same target.
4513,quantitative  genome-wide analysis of eukaryotic replication initiation and termination.,many fundamental aspects of dna replication  such as the exact locations where dna synthesis is initiated and terminated  how frequently origins are used  and how fork progression is influenced by transcription  are poorly understood. via the deep sequencing of okazaki fragments  we comprehensively document replication fork directionality throughout the s. cerevisiae genome  which permits the systematic analysis of initiation  origin efficiency  fork progression  and termination. we show that leading-strand initiation preferentially occurs within a nucleosome-free region at replication origins. using a strain in which late origins can be induced to fire early  we show that replication termination is a largely passive phenomenon that does not rely on cis-acting sequences or replication fork pausing. the replication profile is predominantly determined by the kinetics of origin firing  allowing us to reconstruct chromosome-wide timing profiles from an asynchronous culture.
4515,localization of sir2p: the nucleolus as a compartment for silent information regulators.,in wild-type budding yeast strains  the proteins encoded by sir3  sir4 and rap1 co-localize with telomeric dna in a limited number of foci in interphase nuclei. immunostaining of sir2p shows that in addition to a punctate staining that coincides with rap1 foci  sir2p localizes to a subdomain of the nucleolus. the presence of sir2p at both the spacer of the rdna repeat and at telomeres is confirmed by formaldehyde cross-linking and immunoprecipitation with anti-sir2p antibodies. in strains lacking sir4p  sir3p becomes concentrated in the nucleolus  by a pathway requiring sir2 and uth4  a gene that regulates life span in yeast. the unexpected nucleolar localization of sir2p and sir3p correlates with observed effects of sir mutations on rdna stability and yeast longevity  defining a new site of action for silent information regulatory factors.
4517,anti-cd3 monoclonal antibody in new-onset type 1 diabetes mellitus.,background type 1 diabetes mellitus is a chronic autoimmune disease caused by the pathogenic action of t lymphocytes on insulin-producing beta cells. previous clinical studies have shown that continuous immune suppression temporarily slows the loss of insulin production. preclinical studies suggested that a monoclonal antibody against cd3 could reverse hyperglycemia at presentation and induce tolerance to recurrent disease. methods we studied the effects of a nonactivating humanized monoclonal antibody against cd3--hokt3gamma1(ala-ala)--on the loss of insulin production in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus. within 6 weeks after diagnosis  24 patients were randomly assigned to receive either a single 14-day course of treatment with the monoclonal antibody or no antibody and were studied during the first year of disease. results treatment with the monoclonal antibody maintained or improved insulin production after one year in 9 of the 12 patients in the treatment group  whereas only 2 of the 12 controls had a sustained response (p=0.01). the treatment effect on insulin responses lasted for at least 12 months after diagnosis. glycosylated hemoglobin levels and insulin doses were also reduced in the monoclonal-antibody group. no severe side effects occurred  and the most common side effects were fever  rash  and anemia. clinical responses were associated with a change in the ratio of cd4+ t cells to cd8+ t cells 30 and 90 days after treatment. conclusions treatment with hokt3gamma1(ala-ala) mitigates the deterioration in insulin production and improves metabolic control during the first year of type 1 diabetes mellitus in the majority of patients. the mechanism of action of the anti-cd3 monoclonal antibody may involve direct effects on pathogenic t cells  the induction of populations of regulatory cells  or both.
4519,lactate metabolism in human lung tumors,cancer cells consume glucose and secrete lactate in culture. it is unknown whether lactate contributes to energy metabolism in living tumors. we previously reported that human non-small-cell lung cancers (nsclcs) oxidize glucose in the tricarboxylic acid (tca) cycle. here  we show that lactate is also a tca cycle carbon source for nsclc. in human nsclc  evidence of lactate utilization was most apparent in tumors with high 18fluorodeoxyglucose uptake and aggressive oncological behavior. infusing human nsclc patients with 13c-lactate revealed extensive labeling of tca cycle metabolites. in mice  deleting monocarboxylate transporter-1 (mct1) from tumor cells eliminated lactate-dependent metabolite labeling  confirming tumor-cell-autonomous lactate uptake. strikingly  directly comparing lactate and glucose metabolism in vivo indicated that lactate's contribution to the tca cycle predominates. the data indicate that tumors  including bona fide human nsclc  can use lactate as a fuel in vivo.
4521,sex differences in sex chromosome gene expression in mouse brain.,a major question is whether genes encoded on the sex chromosomes act directly in non-gonadal tissues to cause sex differences in development or function  or whether all sex differences in somatic tissues are induced by gonadal secretions. as part of this question we asked whether mouse x-y homologous gene pairs are expressed in brain in a sex-specific fashion. using rt-pcr and northern blot analysis  we assessed mrna expression in brain of eight y-linked genes as well as their x-linked homologues  at three ages: 13.5 days post coitum  the day of birth (p1) and adult. transcripts of six y genes were expressed at one or more ages: usp9y  ube1y  smcy  eif2s3y  uty and dby. their expression also occurred in xy female brain  and therefore does not require testicular secretions. six x-linked homologues (usp9x  ube1x  smcx  eif2s3x  utx and dbx) were also expressed in brain  and in adulthood all of these transcripts were expressed at significantly higher levels in brains of females than in brains of males  irrespective of their x-inactivation status. for five of these gene pairs  the expression of the y-linked homologue in males was not sufficient to compensate for the female bias in x gene expression. three x-y gene pairs  usp9x/y  ube1x/y and eif2s3x/y  appeared to be differentially regulated (expressed in brain in a different age- or tissue-dependent pattern)  and hence may not be functionally equivalent. these sex differences in x-y gene expression suggest several mechanisms by which these genes may participate in sex differences in brain development and function.
4523,paindetect: a new screening questionnaire to identify neuropathic components in patients with back pain.,objective nociceptive and neuropathic components both contribute to pain. since these components require different pain management strategies  correct pain diagnosis before and during treatment is highly desirable. as low back pain (lbp) patients constitute an important subgroup of chronic pain patients  we addressed the following issues: (i) to establish a simple  validated screening tool to detect neuropathic pain (nep) components in chronic lbp patients  (ii) to determine the prevalence of neuropathic pain components in lbp in a large-scale survey  and (iii) to determine whether lbp patients with an nep component suffer from worse  or different  co-morbidities. methods in co-operation with the german research network on neuropathic pain we developed and validated the paindetect questionnaire (pd-q) in a prospective  multicentre study and subsequently applied it to approximately 8000 lbp patients. results the pd-q is a reliable screening tool with high sensitivity  specificity and positive predictive accuracy; these were 84% in a palm-top computerised version and 85%  80% and 83%  respectively  in a corresponding pencil-and-paper questionnaire. in an unselected cohort of chronic lbp patients  37% were found to have predominantly neuropathic pain. patients with nep showed higher ratings of pain intensity  with more (and more severe) co-morbidities such as depression  panic/anxiety and sleep disorders. this also affected functionality and use of health-care resources. on the basis of given prevalence of lbp in the general population  we calculated that 14.5% of all female and 11.4% of all male germans suffer from lbp with a predominant neuropathic pain component. conclusion simple  patient-based  easy-to-use screening questionnaires can determine the prevalence of neuropathic pain components both in individual lbp patients and in heterogeneous cohorts of such patients. since nep correlates with more intense pain  more severe co-morbidity and poorer quality of life  accurate diagnosis is a milestone in choosing appropriate therapy.
4525,improving outcomes of acute kidney injury: report of an initiative,acute kidney injury (aki) is a complex disorder comprising several etiological factors and occurring in multiple settings. the disorder has a variety of clinical manifestations that range from minimal elevation in serum creatinine level to anuric renal failure. we describe the formation of a multidisciplinary collaborative network focused on aki. this acute kidney injury network has proposed uniform standards for diagnosing and classifying aki. these proposed standards will need to be validated in future studies  a process that will be facilitated by the acute kidney injury network  which offers a forum that encourages acquisition of knowledge to improve patient outcomes.
4527,microtubule stabilization reduces scarring and causes axon regeneration after spinal cord injury.,hypertrophic scarring and poor intrinsic axon growth capacity constitute major obstacles for spinal cord repair. these processes are tightly regulated by microtubule dynamics. here  moderate microtubule stabilization decreased scar formation after spinal cord injury in rodents through various cellular mechanisms  including dampening of transforming growth factor-β signaling. it prevented accumulation of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans and rendered the lesion site permissive for axon regeneration of growth-competent sensory neurons. microtubule stabilization also promoted growth of central nervous system axons of the raphe-spinal tract and led to functional improvement. thus  microtubule stabilization reduces fibrotic scarring and enhances the capacity of axons to grow.
4529,sestrin2 inhibits uncoupling protein 1 expression through suppressing reactive oxygen species.,uncoupling protein 1 (ucp1)  which is localized in the mitochondrial inner membrane of mammalian brown adipose tissue (bat)  generates heat by uncoupling oxidative phosphorylation. upon cold exposure or nutritional abundance  sympathetic neurons stimulate bat to express ucp1 to induce energy dissipation and thermogenesis. accordingly  increased ucp1 expression reduces obesity in mice and is correlated with leanness in humans. despite this significance  there is currently a limited understanding of how ucp1 expression is physiologically regulated at the molecular level. here  we describe the involvement of sestrin2 and reactive oxygen species (ros) in regulation of ucp1 expression. transgenic overexpression of sestrin2 in adipose tissues inhibited both basal and cold-induced ucp1 expression in interscapular bat  culminating in decreased thermogenesis and increased fat accumulation. endogenous sestrin2 is also important for suppressing ucp1 expression because bat from sestrin2(-/-) mice exhibited a highly elevated level of ucp1 expression. the redox-inactive mutant of sestrin2 was incapable of regulating ucp1 expression  suggesting that sestrin2 inhibits ucp1 expression primarily through reducing ros accumulation. consistently  ros-suppressing antioxidant chemicals  such as butylated hydroxyanisole and n-acetylcysteine  inhibited cold- or camp-induced ucp1 expression as well. p38 mapk  a signaling mediator required for camp-induced ucp1 expression  was inhibited by either sestrin2 overexpression or antioxidant treatments. taken together  these results suggest that sestrin2 and antioxidants inhibit ucp1 expression through suppressing ros-mediated p38 mapk activation  implying a critical role of ros in proper bat metabolism.
4531,a 40-hz auditory potential recorded from the human scalp.,computer techniques readily extract from the brainwaves an orderly sequence of brain potentials locked in time to sound stimuli. the potentials that appear 8 to 80 msec after the stimulus resemble 3 or 4 cycles of a 40-hz sine wave; we show here that these waves combined to form a single  stable  composite wave when the sounds are repeated at rates around 40 per sec. this phenomenon  the 40-hz event-related potential (erp)  displays several properties of theoretical and practical interest. first  it reportedly disappears with surgical anesthesia  and it resembles similar phenomena in the visual and olfactory system  facts which suggest that adequate processing of sensory information may require cyclical brain events in the 30- to 50-hz range. second  latency and amplitude measurements on the 40-hz erp indicate it may contain useful information on the number and basilar membrane location of the auditory nerve fibers a given tone excites. third  the response is present at sound intensities very close to normal adult thresholds for the audiometric frequencies  a fact that could have application in clinical hearing testing.
4533,the yeast ribosomal protein l32 and its gene.,the yeast ribosomal protein gene rpl32 of saccharomyces cerevisiae is of particular interest for two reasons: 1) it is adjacent to another ribosomal protein gene  rp29  whose divergent transcription may be driven from the same control sequences  and 2) it appears that the splicing of its transcript is regulated by the product of the gene  ribosomal protein in l32. rpl32 has been analyzed in detail. it is essential for cell growth. its sequence predicts l32 to be a protein of 105 amino acids  somewhat basic near the nh2 terminus  rather acidic near the cooh terminus  and homologous to ribosomal protein l30 of mammals. the reading frame has been confirmed by partial nh2-terminal analysis of l32. the nucleotide sequence also predicts an intron of 230 nucleotides  which begins with the unusual sequence gtcagt and ends 40 nucleotides downstream of the consensus sequence tac-taac. the intron has been confirmed by determination of the sequence of a cdna clone. transcription initiates 58 nucleotides upstream of the aug initiation codon  and the polyadenylation site occurs 100 nucleotides downstream of the termination codon. regulation of the transcription of ribosomal protein genes has been linked to two related consensus sequences. analysis of the intergenic region between rp29 and rpl32 reveals three copies of these sequences. a deletion removing all three sequences reduces synthesis of a l32-lacz fusion protein by more than 90%. some residual activity  however  remains.
4535,loss of 5-hydroxymethylcytosine and ten-eleven translocation 2 protein expression in malignant melanoma.,several research groups have recently reported on markedly reduced levels of 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmc) in human breast  liver  lung  pancreatic  colon  prostate  brain  and myeloid cancers. we studied benign compound nevi (bcn  n=17)  dysplastic compound nevi (dcn  n=15)  superficial spreading melanomas [ssm  stratified in <1 mm (n=19) and >4 mm (n=18) breslow tumor thickness]  and cutaneous metastatic disease (cmd  n=24). immunohistochemistry included specific antibodies against 5hmc  5-methylcytosine (5mc)  and ten-eleven translocation 2 protein (tet2). immunohistological scoring showed significantly (p<0.0001) higher median 5hmc levels in bcn and dcn than in thin ssm  thick ssm  and cmd. 5mc immunoreactivity did not differ significantly (p=0.15) between nevi and melanoma. the intensity of tet2 expression was predominantly weak but was found to be significantly (p<0.0001) more often in nevi than in thin ssm  thick ssm  and cmd. we have shown that 5hmc levels and tet2 expression are significantly reduced in advanced melanomas compared with nevi and thin melanomas. it is suggested that 5hmc and tet2 possibly play an important role in the epigenetic regulation of melanoma development and progression.
4537,rapid purification of homodimer and heterodimer hiv-1 reverse transcriptase by metal chelate affinity chromatography.,we have modified an escherichia coli vector expressing 66-kda hiv-1 reverse transcriptase (p66) so that it simultaneously expresses this and the pol-coded protease. the twin expression cassette yields high quantities of both reverse transcriptase and protease; however  under these conditions  50% of the over-expressed p66 reverse transcriptase is processed  resulting in accumulation of large quantities of p66/p51 enzyme. furthermore  addition of a poly(histidine) affinity label at the amino terminus of the reverse-transcriptase-coding sequence (his-p66) permits a simple  rapid purification of milligram quantities of either p66 or p66/p51 enzyme from a crude lysate by metal chelate affinity chromatography. purified his-p66 and his-p66/his-p51 reverse transcriptase exhibit both reverse transcriptase and rnase h activity. purification by metal chelate chromatography of a p66/p51 enzyme wherein only the p66 component is labelled strengthens the argument for the existence of a heterodimer.
4539,quality of life in patients with advanced heart failure.,although evaluation of the treatment of congestive heart failure is usually based on objective clinical outcomes  patient self-assessment is increasingly recognized as an important component of evaluation. a study was designed to measure the quality of life of 134 patients with symptoms of advanced heart failure who were being evaluated for possible heart transplantation. the patients' quality of life was assessed using a mix of subjective and objective measures  including functional status  physical symptoms  emotional state  and psychosocial adaptation. there was no significant relationship between patients' cardiac ejection fraction and any quality-of-life measures; however  the results of a 6-minute walking test  new york heart association classification  and self-reported functional status were all significantly correlated with psychosocial adjustment. self-reported functional status  depression  and hostility accounted for 43% of the variance in total psychosocial adjustment to illness. these findings support the inclusion of quality of life as an outcome measure in any evaluation of treatment efficacy and suggest that interventions to improve the quality of life of patients with advanced heart failure need to be targeted at reducing depression and hostility and increasing daily activity levels.
4541,serum soluble corin is decreased in stroke.,background and purpose soluble corin was decreased in coronary heart disease. given the connections between cardiac dysfunction and stroke  circulating corin might be a candidate marker of stroke risk. however  the association between circulating corin and stroke has not yet been studied in humans. here  we aimed to examine the association in patients wtith stroke and community-based healthy controls. methods four hundred eighty-one patients with ischemic stroke  116 patients with hemorrhagic stroke  and 2498 healthy controls were studied. serum soluble corin and some conventional risk factors of stroke were examined. because circulating corin was reported to be varied between men and women  the association between serum soluble corin and stroke was evaluated in men and women  respectively. results patients with ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke had a significantly lower level of serum soluble corin than healthy controls in men and women (all p values  <0.05). in multivariate analysis  men in the lowest quartile of serum soluble corin were more likely to have ischemic (odds ratio [or]  4.90; 95% confidence interval  2.99-8.03) and hemorrhagic (or  17.57; 95% confidence interval  4.85-63.71) stroke than men in the highest quartile. women in the lowest quartile of serum soluble corin were also more likely to have ischemic (or  3.10; 95% confidence interval  1.76-5.44) and hemorrhagic (or  8.54; 95% confidence interval  2.35-31.02) stroke than women in the highest quartile. ors of ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke were significantly increased with the decreasing levels of serum soluble corin in men and women (all p values for trend  <0.001). conclusions serum soluble corin was decreased in patients with stroke compared with healthy controls. our findings raise the possibility that serum soluble corin may have a pathogenic role in stroke.
4543,the ikk complex  a central regulator of nf-kappab activation.,the ikk kinase complex is the core element of the nf-kappab cascade. it is essentially made of two kinases (ikkalpha and ikkbeta) and a regulatory subunit  nemo/ikkgamma. additional components may exist  transiently or permanently  but their characterization is still unsure. in addition  it has been shown that two separate nf-kappab pathways exist  depending on the activating signal and the cell type  the canonical (depending on ikkbeta and nemo) and the noncanonical pathway (depending solely on ikkalpha). the main question  which is still only partially answered  is to understand how an nf-kappab activating signal leads to the activation of the kinase subunits  allowing them to phosphorylate their targets and eventually induce nuclear translocation of the nf-kappab dimers. i will review here the genetic  biochemical  and structural data accumulated during the last 10 yr regarding the function of the three ikk subunits.
4545,knockdown of the co-chaperone hop promotes extranuclear accumulation of stat3 in mouse embryonic stem cells.,a key event in the mechanism of mouse embryonic stem cell (mesc) pluripotency is phosphorylation  dimerisation and translocation to the nucleus of the signal transducer and activator of transcription3  stat3. we used rnai to suppress the levels of the co-chaperone hsp70/hsp90 organising protein (hop) in an mesc line. hop knockdown caused 68% depletion in stat3 mrna levels  decreased soluble pystat3 levels  and led to an extranuclear accumulation of stat3. the major binding partner of hop  hsp90  co-localised with a small non-nuclear fraction of stat3 in mescs  and both stat3 and hop co-precipitated with hsp90. hop knockdown did not affect nanog and oct4 protein levels; however  nanog mrna levels were decreased. we found that in the absence of hop  mescs lost their pluripotent ability to form embryoid bodies with a basement membrane. these data suggest that hop facilitates the phosphorylation and nuclear translocation of stat3  implying a role for the hsp70/hsp90 chaperone heterocomplex machinery in pluripotency signalling.
4547,jmjd6 promotes colon carcinogenesis through negative regulation of p53 by hydroxylation,jumonji domain-containing 6 (jmjd6) is a member of the jumonji c domain-containing family of proteins. compared to other members of the family  the cellular activity of jmjd6 is still not clearly defined and its biological function is still largely unexplored. here we report that jmjd6 is physically associated with the tumor suppressor p53. we demonstrated that jmjd6 acts as an α-ketoglutarate- and fe(ii)-dependent lysyl hydroxylase to catalyze p53 hydroxylation. we found that p53 indeed exists as a hydroxylated protein in vivo and that the hydroxylation occurs mainly on lysine 382 of p53. we showed that jmjd6 antagonizes p53 acetylation  promotes the association of p53 with its negative regulator mdmx  and represses transcriptional activity of p53. depletion of jmjd6 enhances p53 transcriptional activity  arrests cells in the g1 phase  promotes cell apoptosis  and sensitizes cells to dna damaging agent-induced cell death. importantly  knockdown of jmjd6 represses p53-dependent colon cell proliferation and tumorigenesis in vivo  and significantly  the expression of jmjd6 is markedly up-regulated in various types of human cancer especially in colon cancer  and high nuclear jmjd6 protein is strongly correlated with aggressive clinical behaviors of colon adenocarcinomas. our results reveal a novel posttranslational modification for p53 and support the pursuit of jmjd6 as a potential biomarker for colon cancer aggressiveness and a potential target for colon cancer intervention.
4549,obesity occurring in apolipoprotein e-knockout mice has mild effects on fertility.,the apolipoprotein (apo) family is implicated in lipid metabolism. there are five types of apo: apoa  apob  apoc  apod  and apoe. apoe has been demonstrated to play a central role in lipoprotein metabolism and to be essential for efficient receptor-mediated plasma clearance of chylomicron remnants and vldl remnant particles by the liver. apoe-deficient (apoe(-/-)) mice develop atherosclerotic plaques spontaneously  followed by obesity. in this study  we investigated whether lipid deposition caused by apoe knockout affects reproduction in female mice. the results demonstrated that apoe(-/-) mice were severely hypercholesterolemic  with their cholesterol metabolism disordered  and lipid accumulating in the ovaries causing the ovaries to be heavier compared with the wt counterparts. in addition  estrogen and progesterone decreased significantly at d 100. quantitative pcr analysis demonstrated that at d 100 the expression of cytochromep450 aromatase (cyp19a1)  3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (hsd3b)  mechanistic target of rapamycin (mtor)  and nuclear factor-κb (nfkb) decreased significantly  while that of bcl2-associated agonist of cell death (bad) and tuberous sclerosis complex 2 (tsc2) increased significantly in the apoe(-/-) mice. however  there was no difference in the fertility rates of the apoe(-/-) and wt mice; that is  obesity induced by apoe knockout has no significant effect on reproduction. however  the deletion of apoe increased the number of ovarian follicles and the ratio of ovarian follicle atresia and apoptosis. we believe that this work will augment our understanding of the role of apoe in reproduction.
4551,malaria eradication back on the table.,after a lapse of almost 40 years  malaria eradication is back on the global health agenda. inspired by the gates malaria forum in october 2007 1 2 key organizations are starting to debate the pros and cons of redefining eradication as an explicit goal of malaria control efforts. attempts to eliminate malaria in southern africa3 and pacific island states 4 and who’s global malaria programme agenda and field manual for malaria elimination 5 6 foreshadow this movement towards another global attempt at eradication. when marking 60 years of who’s commitment to fighting malaria  we must ask what has been achieved  but also what can we learn from the past. we now know so much more about the biology of parasite-host responses  the determinants of endemicity and transmission dynamics  the social  economic and cultural implications of malaria at household  community and national levels  and the demands made upon health systems in endemic countries. we do not yet know how to synthesize and integrate this knowledge to achieve elimination in different settings. regional malaria elimination campaigns were first conducted in the late 1940s  preparing the ground for the global malaria eradication program in 1955. this campaign succeeded in eliminating malaria from europe  north america  the caribbean and parts of asia and south-central america.7 but no major success occurred in sub-saharan africa  which accounts for 80% of today’s burden of malaria.8 when the aspiration of global eradication was abandoned in 1969  the main reasons for failure were technical challenges of executing the strategy especially in africa. the post-eradication era from 1969 to 1991 focused on technical issues  and research and development for new tools  leading to advances in drug and vaccine development  vector control and insecticide-treated nets. these decades also brought a better understanding of the social  economic and cultural dimensions of malaria. there was little global support provided specifically for malaria control in the newly independent states of africa that were struggling to establish broad-based health systems and primary health care. by 1992  the combination of a worsening malaria situation and promising technical developments led to renewed global focus on malaria control. the roll back malaria initiative  launched by who in 1998  led to the abuja declaration in 2000  which defined progressive intervention coverage targets for control designed to eliminate malaria as a public health problem  while emphasizing that this could only be achieved through vastly strengthened local health systems.9 increased resources through the global fund to fight aids  tuberculosis and malaria  the world bank’s booster program  the us president’s malaria initiative and many others has meant that this page is finally beginning to turn as intervention coverage is rising.10    it is against this background that we hear this call for elimination/eradication. the challenges remain formidable. we all know that elimination in africa is not possible with current tools. but efforts must focus beyond simply developing better tools  to include how existing and future tools can be strategically combined for maximum synergistic effectiveness when integrated into different health and social systems prevailing in endemic areas. aiming at elimination and eradication further implies the need for effective surveillance strategies to monitor progress (again a challenge for health systems). this in turn requires a better understanding of malaria transmission heterogeneity in a globalized world with rapidly changing dynamics in environment  climate  migration and transnational cooperation. maintaining long-term momentum in the face of success in regional elimination while waiting to achieve final eradication will be a major challenge. shrinking the map by starting on the malaria margins with the “easy-to-eliminate” settings will boost morale initially but may bring marginal benefits to such areas at the expense of those where the burden of malaria is highest. any strategic plan – and here we learn again from the past – needs to be a synchronous global effort  locally adapted in all endemic areas. although we lack sufficient knowledge  systems and tools to eradicate malaria today  we do have a window of political will and financial resources to refocus on the goal of effective control through universal coverage of appropriate interventions. the prerequisites for a successful start are: (i) a process of inclusive discourse to agree on global vision  goals and strategy; and (ii) a global plan for all endemic areas describing how  where and when we move from control towards elimination. what must distinguish the new era  especially in africa  is a real rather than rhetorical emphasis on health systems. ■
4553,ctcf and cohesin in genome folding and transcriptional gene regulation.,genome function  replication  integrity  and propagation rely on the dynamic structural organization of chromosomes during the cell cycle. genome folding in interphase provides regulatory segmentation for appropriate transcriptional control  facilitates ordered genome replication  and contributes to genome integrity by limiting illegitimate recombination. here  we review recent high-resolution chromosome conformation capture and functional studies that have informed models of the spatial and regulatory compartmentalization of mammalian genomes  and discuss mechanistic models for how ctcf and cohesin control the functional architecture of mammalian chromosomes.
4555,age- and infection intensity-dependent cytokine and antibody production in human trichuriasis: the importance of ige.,the cytokine and antibody response to trichuris trichiura infection was determined for 96 persons living in an area where the parasite is highly endemic and infection exhibits a convex age intensity profile. in response to stimulation with t. trichiura antigen  a small proportion of the study group produced interleukin (il)-4 (7%)  il-9 (5%)  and il-13 (17%). a larger proportion produced il-10 (97%)  tumor necrosis factor (tnf)-alpha (93%)  and interferon (ifn)-gamma (32%). the levels of tnf-alpha (p =.016) and ifn-gamma (p =.012) significantly increased with age  suggesting a switch to a more chronic infection phenotype. the predominant parasite-specific antibodies produced were igg1  igg4  iga  and ige. unlike the igg subclasses and iga  parasite-specific ige correlated negatively with infection intensity  as defined by egg output (p =.008)  and positively with host age (p =.010). these findings suggest a mixed cytokine response in trichuriasis and an ige-associated level of protection.
4557,roads to polyploidy: the megakaryocyte example.,polyploidy  recognized by multiple copies of the haploid chromosome number  has been described in plants  insects  and in mammalian cells such as  the platelet precursors  the megakaryocytes. several of these cell types reach high ploidy via a different cell cycle. megakaryocytes undergo an endomitotic cell cycle  which consists of an s phase interrupted by a gap  during which the cells enter mitosis but skip anaphase b and cytokinesis. here  we review the mechanisms that lead to this cell cycle and to polyploidy in megakaryocytes  while also comparing them to those described for other systems in which high ploidy is achieved. overall  polyploidy is associated with an orchestrated change in expression of several genes  of which  some may be a result of high ploidy and hence a determinant of a new cell physiology  while others are inducers of polyploidization. future studies will aim to further explore these two groups of genes.
4559,the werner and bloom syndrome proteins help resolve replication blockage by converting (regressed) holliday junctions to functional replication forks.,cells cope with blockage of replication fork progression in a manner that allows dna synthesis to be completed and genomic instability minimized. models for resolution of blocked replication involve fork regression to form holliday junction structures. the human recq helicases wrn and blm (deficient in werner and bloom syndromes  respectively) are critical for maintaining genomic stability and thought to function in accurate resolution of replication blockage. consistent with this notion  wrn and blm localize to sites of blocked replication after certain dna-damaging treatments and exhibit enhanced activity on replication and recombination intermediates. here we examine the actions of wrn and blm on a special holliday junction substrate reflective of a regressed replication fork. our results demonstrate that  in reactions requiring atp hydrolysis  both wrn and blm convert this holliday junction substrate primarily to a four-stranded replication fork structure  suggesting they target the holliday junction to initiate branch migration. in agreement  the holliday junction binding protein ruva inhibits the wrn- and blm-mediated conversion reactions. importantly  this conversion product is suitable for replication with its leading daughter strand readily extended by dna polymerases. furthermore  binding to and conversion of this holliday junction are optimal at low mgcl(2) concentrations  suggesting that wrn and blm preferentially act on the square planar (open) conformation of holliday junctions. our findings suggest that  subsequent to fork regression events  wrn and/or blm could re-establish functional replication forks to help overcome fork blockage. such a function is highly consistent with phenotypes associated with wrn- and blm-deficient cells.
4561,oxidative phosphorylation: synthesis of mitochondrially encoded proteins and assembly of individual structural subunits into functional holoenzyme complexes.,the bulk of atp consumed by various cellular processes in higher eukaryotes is normally produced by five multimeric protein complexes (i-v) embedded within the inner mitochondrial membrane  in a process known as oxidative phosphorylation (oxphos). maintenance of energy homeostasis under most physiological conditions is therefore contingent upon the ability of oxphos to meet cellular changes in bioenergetic demand  with a chronic failure to do so being a frequent cause of human disease. with the exception of complex ii  the structural subunits of oxphos complexes are encoded by both the nuclear and the mitochondrial genomes. the physical separation of the two genomes necessitates that the expression of the 13 mitochondrially encoded polypeptides be co-ordinated with that of relevant nuclear-encoded partners in order to assemble functional holoenzyme complexes. complex biogenesis is a highly ordered process  and several nuclear-encoded factors that function at distinct stages in the assembly of individual oxphos complexes have been identified.
4563,the effect of folate fortification on folic acid-based homocysteine-lowering intervention and stroke risk: a meta-analysis.,objective folate and vitamin b12 are two vital regulators in the metabolic process of homocysteine  which is a risk factor of atherothrombotic events. low folate intake or low plasma folate concentration is associated with increased stroke risk. previous randomized controlled trials presented discordant findings in the effect of folic acid supplementation-based homocysteine lowering on stroke risk. the aim of the present review was to perform a meta-analysis of relevant randomized controlled trials to check the how different folate fortification status might affect the effects of folic acid supplementation in lowering homocysteine and reducing stroke risk. design relevant randomized controlled trials were identified through formal literature search. homocysteine reduction was compared in subgroups stratified by folate fortification status. relative risks with 95 % confidence intervals were used as a measure to assess the association between folic acid supplementation and stroke risk. setting the meta-analysis included fourteen randomized controlled trials    subjects a total of 39 420 patients. results homocysteine reductions were 26·99 (sd 1·91) %  18·38 (sd 3·82) % and 21·30 (sd 1·98) %  respectively  in the subgroups without folate fortification  with folate fortification and with partial folate fortification. significant difference was observed between the subgroups with folate fortification and without folate fortification (p=0·05). the relative risk of stroke was 0·88 (95 % ci 0·77  1·00  p=0·05) in the subgroup without folate fortification  0·94 (95 % ci 0·58  1·54  p=0·82) in the subgroup with folate fortification and 0·91 (95 % ci 0·82  1·01  p=0·09) in the subgroup with partial folate fortification. conclusions folic acid supplementation might have a modest benefit on stroke prevention in regions without folate fortification.
4565,altered microrna expression in bovine skeletal muscle with age.,age-dependent decline in skeletal muscle function leads to several inherited and acquired muscular disorders in elderly individuals. the levels of micrornas (mirnas) could be altered during muscle maintenance and repair. we therefore performed a comprehensive investigation for mirnas from five different periods of bovine skeletal muscle development using next-generation small rna sequencing. in total  511 mirnas  including one putatively novel mirna  were identified. thirty-six mirnas were differentially expressed between prenatal and postnatal stages of muscle development including several myomirs (mir-1  mir-206 and let-7 families). compared with mirna expression between different muscle tissues  14 mirnas were up-regulated and 22 mirnas were down-regulated in the muscle of postnatal stage. in addition  a novel mirna was predicted and submitted to the mirbase database as bta-mir-10020. a dual luciferase reporter assay was used to demonstrate that bta-mir-10020 directly targeted the 3'-utr of the bovine angpt1 gene. the overexpression of bta-mir-10020 significantly decreased the dsred fluorescence in the wild-type expression cassette compared to the mutant type. using three computational approaches - miranda  pita and rnahybrid - these differentially expressed mirnas were also predicted to target 3609 bovine genes. disease and biological function analyses and the kegg pathway analysis revealed that these targets were statistically enriched in functionality for muscle growth and disease. our mirna expression analysis findings from different states of muscle development and aging significantly expand the repertoire of bovine mirnas now shown to be expressed in muscle and could contribute to further studies on growth and developmental disorders in this tissue type.
4567,neuronal origin of a cerebral amyloid: neurofibrillary tangles of alzheimer's disease contain the same protein as the amyloid of plaque cores and blood vessels.,the protein component of alzheimer's disease amyloid [neurofibrillary tangles (nft)  amyloid plaque core and congophilic angiopathy] is an aggregated polypeptide with a subunit mass of 4 kd (the a4 monomer). based on the degree of n-terminal heterogeneity  the amyloid is first deposited in the neuron  and later in the extracellular space. using antisera raised against synthetic peptides  we show that the n terminus of a4 (residues 1-11) contains an epitope for neurofibrillary tangles  and the inner region of the molecule (residues 11-23) contains an epitope for plaque cores and vascular amyloid. the non-protein component of the amyloid (aluminum silicate) may form the basis for the deposition or amplification (possible self-replication) of the aggregated amyloid protein. the amyloid of alzheimer's disease is similar in subunit size  composition but not sequence to the scrapie-associated fibril and its constituent polypeptides. the sequence and composition of nft are not homologous to those of any of the known components of normal neurofilaments.
4569,attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder: a category or a continuum? genetic analysis of a large-scale twin study.,objective to investigate heritability and continuum versus categorical approaches to attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (adhd)  using a large-scale twin sample. method a cohort of 1 938 families with twins and siblings aged 4 to 12 years  recruited from the australian national health and medical research council twin registry  was assessed for adhd using a dsm-iii-r-based maternal rating scale. probandwise concordance rates and correlations in monozygotic and dizygotic twins and siblings were calculated  and heritability was examined using the de fries and fulker regression technique. results there was a narrow (additive) heritability of 0.75 to 0.91 which was robust across familial relationships (twin  sibling  and twin-sibling) and across definitions of adhd as part of a continuum or as a disorder with various symptom cutoffs. there was no evidence for nonadditive genetic variation or for shared family environmental effects. conclusions these findings suggest that adhd is best viewed as the extreme of a behavior that varies genetically throughout the entire population rather than as a disorder with discrete determinants. this has implications for the classification of adhd and for the identification of genes for this behavior  as well as implications for diagnosis and treatment.
4571,cellular and histopathological changes in the infrapatellar fat pad in the monoiodoacetate model of osteoarthritis pain.,objective the infrapatellar fat pad (ipfp) has been identified as a source of anterior knee pain. fibrosis and marked inflammatory infiltrate in the ipfp of patients with arthritis of the knee and reduction in pain post knee replacement in patients following resection of the ipfp have been observed. we have investigated changes in the ipfp of rats undergoing the monoiodoacetate (mia) model of degenerative joint disease  a model that exhibits some histopathological similarities to osteoarthritis (oa). methods rats were injected intra-articularly with mia and the development of weight bearing asymmetry was followed for 21 days as compared to vehicle-injected animals. in addition  ipfps were removed from both ipsilateral and contralateral joints. both inflammatory infiltrate and histopathological changes were analysed. results mia injection caused marked weight bearing asymmetry. ipsilateral ipfp wet weights were significantly increased on days 1 and 3 in mia-treated animals. mia treatment also resulted in significant increases in ipfp total white blood cells and monocytes on days 1  3  and 7 and neutrophils on days 1 and 3. this was supported by histopathological findings at early time points which progressed to adipocyte necrosis  ipfp fibrosis  patellar cartilage and subchondral bone necrosis with synovial hyperplasia at later timepoints. conclusions the current study clearly demonstrated that marked inflammatory changes in the ipfp occur during the early stage of the mia model of oa which may contribute to the pain observed at this early stage. the role of the ipfp in later stages of the model needs to be further explored.
4573,body mass index and magnetic resonance markers of brain integrity in adults.,objective obesity and being overweight during adulthood have been consistently linked to increased risk for development of dementia later in life  especially alzheimer's disease. they have also been associated with cognitive dysfunction and brain structural alterations in otherwise healthy adults. although proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy may distinguish between neuronal and glial components of the brain and may point to neurobiological mechanisms underlying brain atrophy and cognitive changes  no spectroscopic studies have yet assessed the relationships between adiposity and brain metabolites. methods we have utilized magnetic resonance imaging and proton magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging data from 50 healthy middle-aged participants (mean age  41.7 +/- 8.5 years; 17 women)  who were scanned as control subjects for another study. results after adjustment for age and sex  greater body mass indices (bmis) correlated with: (1) lower concentrations of n-acetylaspartate (spectroscopic marker of neuronal viability) in frontal (p = 0.001)  parietal (p = 0.006)  and temporal (p = 0.008) white matter; (2) lower n-acetylaspartate in frontal gray matter (p = 0.01); and (3) lower concentrations of choline-containing metabolites (associated with membrane metabolism) in frontal white matter (p = 0.05). interpretation these results suggest that increased bmi at midlife is associated with neuronal and/or myelin abnormalities  primarily in the frontal lobe. because white matter in the frontal lobes is more prone to the effects of aging than in other lobes  our results may reflect accelerated aging in individuals with high levels of adiposity. thus  greater bmi may increase the odds of developing an age-related disease  such as alzheimer's disease.
4575,opa1-dependent cristae modulation is essential for cellular adaptation to metabolic demand.,cristae  the organized invaginations of the mitochondrial inner membrane  respond structurally to the energetic demands of the cell. the mechanism by which these dynamic changes are regulated and the consequences thereof are largely unknown. optic atrophy 1 (opa1) is the mitochondrial gtpase responsible for inner membrane fusion and maintenance of cristae structure. here  we report that opa1 responds dynamically to changes in energetic conditions to regulate cristae structure. this cristae regulation is independent of opa1's role in mitochondrial fusion  since an opa1 mutant that can still oligomerize but has no fusion activity was able to maintain cristae structure. importantly  opa1 was required for resistance to starvation-induced cell death  for mitochondrial respiration  for growth in galactose media and for maintenance of atp synthase assembly  independently of its fusion activity. we identified mitochondrial solute carriers (slc25a) as opa1 interactors and show that their pharmacological and genetic blockade inhibited opa1 oligomerization and function. thus  we propose a novel way in which opa1 senses energy substrate availability  which modulates its function in the regulation of mitochondrial architecture in a slc25a protein-dependent manner.
4577,the safety of intravenous fluorescein for confocal laser endomicroscopy in the gastrointestinal tract.,background confocal laser endomicroscopy (cle) is rapidly emerging as a valuable tool for gastrointestinal endoscopic imaging. fluorescent contrast agents are used to optimize imaging with cle  and intravenous fluorescein is the most widely used contrast agent. fluorescein is fda-cleared for diagnostic angiography of the retina. for these indications  the safety profile of fluorescein has been well-documented; however  to date  fluorescein is not cleared for use with cle. aims to estimate the rate of serious and total adverse events attributable to intravenous fluorescein when used for gastrointestinal cle. methods we performed a cross sectional survey of 16 international academic medical centres with active research protocols in cle that involved intravenous fluorescein. centres using i.v. fluorescein for cle who were actively monitored for adverse events were included. results sixteen centres performed 2272 gastrointestinal cle procedures. the most common dose of contrast agent was 2.5-5 ml of 10% sodium fluorescein. no serious adverse events were reported. mild adverse events occurred in 1.4% of individuals  including nausea/vomiting  transient hypotension without shock  injection site erythema  diffuse rash and mild epigastric pain. the limitation is that only immediate post procedure events were actively monitored. conclusions use of intravenous fluorescein for gastrointestinal cle appears to be safe with few acute complications.
4579,the flavivirus precursor membrane-envelope protein complex: structure and maturation.,many viruses go through a maturation step in the final stages of assembly before being transmitted to another host. the maturation process of flaviviruses is directed by the proteolytic cleavage of the precursor membrane protein (prm)  turning inert virus into infectious particles. we have determined the 2.2 angstrom resolution crystal structure of a recombinant protein in which the dengue virus prm is linked to the envelope glycoprotein e. the structure represents the prm-e heterodimer and fits well into the cryo-electron microscopy density of immature virus at neutral ph. the pr peptide beta-barrel structure covers the fusion loop in e  preventing fusion with host cell membranes. the structure provides a basis for identifying the stages of its ph-directed conformational metamorphosis during maturation  ending with release of pr when budding from the host.
4581,characterization of complete genome and small rna profile of pagoda yellow mosaic associated virus  a novel badnavirus in china.,a new badnavirus was discovered from pagoda trees showing yellow mosaic symptoms on the leaves by high throughput sequencing of small rnas. the complete genome of this virus was determined to comprise 7424 nucleotides  and the virus shared 40.4-45.1% identity with that of other badnaviruses. the genome encodes five open reading frames (orfs) on the plus strand  which includes three conserved badnaviral orfs. these results suggest that this virus is a new member of the genus badnavirus in the family caulimoviridae. the virus is tentatively named pagoda yellow mosaic associated virus (pymav). phylogenetic analysis suggested that this virus together with gooseberry vein banding virus (gvbv) and grapevine vein-clearing virus (gvcv) forms a separate group that is distinct two other well characterized badnaviral groups. additionally  the viral derived small rna (vsrna) profile of pymav was analyzed and compared with that of viruses within the same family. results showed that the most abundant pymav vsrnas were 21-nt  whereas other viruses in the same family have a predominance of 22- or 24-nt vsrna. the percentage of sense pymav vsrna was almost equal to that of antisense vsrna  whereas vsrnas of other viruses in the family display preferences toward the sense strand of their genome. furthermore  pymav vsrnas were symmetrically distributed along the genome with no obvious vsrna generating hotspots.
4583,reversal of hyperglycemia in mice by using human expandable insulin-producing cells differentiated from fetal liver progenitor cells.,beta-cell replacement is considered to be the most promising approach for treatment of type 1 diabetes. its application on a large scale is hindered by a shortage of cells for transplantation. activation of insulin expression  storage  and regulated secretion in stem/progenitor cells offers novel ways to overcome this shortage. we explored whether fetal human progenitor liver cells (fh) could be induced to differentiate into insulin-producing cells after expression of the pancreatic duodenal homeobox 1 (pdx1) gene  which is a key regulator of pancreatic development and insulin expression in beta cells. fh cells possess a considerable replication capacity  and this was further extended by introduction of the gene for the catalytic subunit of human telomerase. immortalized fh cells expressing pdx1 activated multiple beta-cell genes  produced and stored considerable amounts of insulin  and released insulin in a regulated manner in response to glucose. when transplanted into hyperglycemic immunodeficient mice  the cells restored and maintained euglycemia for prolonged periods. quantitation of human c-peptide in the mouse serum confirmed that the glycemia was normalized by the transplanted human cells. this approach offers the potential of a novel source of cells for transplantation into patients with type 1 diabetes.
4585,eb virus-encoded rnas are recognized by rig-i and activate signaling to induce type i ifn.,epstein-barr virus (ebv)-encoded small rnas (ebers) are nonpolyadenylated  untranslated rnas  exist most abundantly in latently ebv-infected cells  and are expected to show secondary structures with many short stem-loops. retinoic acid-inducible gene i (rig-i) is a cytosolic protein that detects viral double-stranded rna (dsrna) inside the cell and initiates signaling pathways leading to the induction of protective cellular genes  including type i interferons (ifns). we investigated whether ebers were recognized by rig-i as dsrna. transfection of rig-i plasmid induced ifns and ifn-stimulated genes (isgs) in ebv-positive burkitt's lymphoma (bl) cells  but not in their ebv-negative counterparts or eber-knockout ebv-infected bl cells. transfection of eber plasmid or in vitro-synthesized ebers induced expression of type i ifns and isgs in rig-i-expressing  ebv-negative bl cells  but not in rig-i-minus counterparts. ebers activated rig-i's substrates  nf-kappab and ifn regulatory factor 3  which were necessary for type i ifn activation. it was also shown that ebers co-precipitated with rig-i. these results indicate that ebers are recognized by rig-i and activate signaling to induce type i ifn in ebv-infected cells.
4587,potent immunosuppressive activities of cytomegalovirus-encoded interleukin-10.,cytomegalovirus (cmv) has highly evolved mechanisms for avoiding detection by the host immune system. recently  in the genomes of human and primate cmv  a novel gene comprising segments of noncontiguous open reading frames was identified and found to have limited predicted homology to endogenous cellular interleukin-10 (il-10). here we investigate the biological activities of the cmv il-10-like gene product and show it to possess potent immunosuppressive properties. both purified bacterium-derived recombinant cmv il-10 and cmv il-10 expressed in supernatants of human cells were found to inhibit proliferation of mitogen-stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells (pbmcs)  with specific activity comparable to that of recombinant human il-10. in addition  cmv il-10 expressed from human cells inhibited cytokine synthesis  as treatment of stimulated pbmcs and monocytes with cmv il-10 led to a marked decrease in production of proinflammatory cytokines. finally  cmv il-10 was observed to decrease cell surface expression of both major histocompatibility complex (mhc) class i and class ii molecules  while conversely increasing expression of the nonclassical mhc allele hla-g. these results demonstrate for the first time that cmv has a biologically active il-10 homolog that may contribute to immune evasion during virus infection.
4589,human somatic cell nuclear transfer using adult cells.,derivation of patient-specific human pluripotent stem cells via somatic cell nuclear transfer (scnt) has the potential for applications in a range of therapeutic contexts. however  successful scnt with human cells has proved challenging to achieve  and thus far has only been reported with fetal or infant somatic cells. in this study  we describe the application of a recently developed methodology for the generation of human escs via scnt using dermal fibroblasts from 35- and 75-year-old males. our study therefore demonstrates the applicability of scnt for adult human cells and supports further investigation of scnt as a strategy for regenerative medicine.
4591,dose-response study on thyrotoxic patients undergoing positron emission tomography and radioiodine therapy,with the acknowledged problems associated with assessment of functioning thyroid mass and hence radiation dose  our policy had been to give 75 mbq iodine-131 at 6-monthly intervals to patients with graves' disease until they became euthyroid. since positron emission tomography (pet) has been available at this hospital  the radiation dose to the thyroid has been calculated with an accuracy of ∼20%  the thyroid mass being determined from an iodine-124 pet scan. a dose-response study has been carried out on 65 patients who have received single or cumulative radiation doses of <80 gy. the results show that patients who receive a low radiation dose (<20 gy) at their first treatment have a high probability of remaining toxic at 12 months. in contrast  patients who receive higher radiation doses (>40 gy) at their first treatment have a high probability of control. the probability of becoming euthyroid increases more rapidly with increasing radiation dose than the probability of becoming hypothyroid. following this dose-response study  a new treatment protocol has been introduced. a 124i pet tracer study prior to 131i therapy will be performed to enable a prescribed thyroid dose of 50 gy to be delivered to patients with graves' disease. further 131i therapy will only be considered if patients are still toxic at 12 months.
4593,the in vitro effect of dandelions antioxidants on microsomal lipid peroxidation.,dandelions have long been used in herbal medicine for their choleretic  diuretic  antiinflammatory  appetite-stimulating and laxative properties. an antioxidant property can be supposed as a basis of their-therapeutic effects. to understand the mechanism of the drug's action  the effects of natural extracts on a microsomal fraction of rat liver were examined. the extracts diminished the enzymatically induced-lipid peroxidation and reduced the cytochrome c with and without nadph in a concentration dependent manner.
4595,cytokine production patterns and lymphoproliferative responses in volunteers orally immunized with attenuated vaccine strains of salmonella typhi.,new recombinant strains of attenuated salmonella typhi used as live oral vaccines elicit potent immune responses. this study examined the patterns of cytokine production and proliferation to specific s. typhi antigens in subjects orally immunized with attenuated s. typhi vaccines cvd 906  cvd 908  and cvd 908 expressing the circumsporozoite protein of plasmodium falciparum. after immunization  sensitized lymphocytes were found in subjects' blood that exhibited significantly increased proliferative responses and interferon-gamma production to purified s. typhi flagella when compared with preimmunization levels. significant negative correlations were observed between interleukin-4 production and both interferon-gamma production and proliferation to s. typhi flagella. these results demonstrate that oral immunization with attenuated s. typhi strains alone or with those carrying a foreign gene elicits strong systemic cell-mediated immunity to purified s. typhi antigens  including the production of cytokines compatible with t1-type responses.
4597,tumor necrosis factor alpha mediates apoptosis of brown adipocytes and defective brown adipocyte function in obesity.,severe quantitative and qualitative brown adipocyte defects are common in obesity. to investigate whether aberrant expression of tumor necrosis factor alpha (tnf-alpha) in obesity is involved in functional brown fat atrophy  we have studied genetically obese (ob/ob) mice with targeted null mutations in the genes encoding the two tnf receptors. the absence of both tnf receptors or p55 receptor alone resulted in a significant reduction in brown adipocyte apoptosis and an increase in beta(3)-adrenoreceptor and uncoupling protein-1 expression in obese mice. increased numbers of multilocular functionally active brown adipocytes  and improved thermoregulation was also observed in obese animals lacking tnf-alpha function. these results indicate that tnf-alpha plays an important role in multiple aspects of brown adipose tissue biology and mediates the abnormalities that occur at this site in obesity.
4599,leptin deficiency contributes to the pathogenesis of alcoholic fatty liver disease in mice.,white adipose tissue (wat) secretes adipokines  which critically regulate lipid metabolism. the present study investigated the effects of alcohol on adipokines and the mechanistic link between adipokine dysregulation and alcoholic fatty liver disease. mice were fed alcohol for 2  4  or 8 weeks to document changes in adipokines over time. alcohol exposure reduced wat mass and body weight in association with hepatic lipid accumulation. the plasma adiponectin concentration was increased at 2 weeks  but declined to normal at 4 and 8 weeks. alcohol exposure suppressed leptin gene expression in wat and reduced the plasma leptin concentration at all times measured. there is a highly positive correlation between plasma leptin concentration and wat mass or body weight. to determine whether leptin deficiency mediates alcohol-induced hepatic lipid dyshomeostasis  mice were fed alcohol for 8 weeks with or without leptin administration for the last 2 weeks. leptin administration normalized the plasma leptin concentration and reversed alcoholic fatty liver. alcohol-perturbed genes involved in fatty acid β-oxidation  very low-density lipoprotein secretion  and transcriptional regulation were attenuated by leptin. leptin also normalized alcohol-reduced phosphorylation levels of signal transducer stat3 and adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase. these data demonstrated for the first time that leptin deficiency in association with wat mass reduction contributes to the pathogenesis of alcoholic fatty liver disease.
4601,familial amyloidosis: a study of 52 north american-born patients examined during a 30-year period.,between 1961 and 1990  52 patients with biopsy-proven familial amyloidosis born in north america were examined at the mayo clinic. at the time of diagnosis of familial amyloidosis  83% of these patients had peripheral neuropathy  33% had autonomic neuropathy  and 27% had cardiomyopathy. renal disease was noted in fewer than 10%  and liver involvement was rare. the median age at diagnosis was 64 years. the sensitivity of various diagnostic biopsies was similar to that for primary amyloidosis: deposits of amyloid were found in 77 and 78% of the subcutaneous fat aspirates or rectal biopsy specimens  respectively  and in 41% of specimens of bone marrow. the median duration of survival of 5.8 years for patients with inherited amyloidosis was superior to that for patients with primary amyloidosis. when patients were stratified by organ involvement  the survival of patients with familial amyloidosis remained superior. the presence of cardiomyopathy and an interactive variable of age and the presence of autonomic neuropathy were powerful predictors of survival. of the 52 patients  22 died  12 (55%) of cardiac failure or cardiac arrhythmia. nine patients (41%) died of inanition in conjunction with progressive peripheral or autonomic neuropathy. transthyretin was identified by immunohistochemical studies in 31 of the 34 tissue specimens tested. a transthyretin mutation was identified in 24 of the 31. a transthyretin mutation was found in five additional patients for whom tissue was unavailable for immunostaining.
4603,high density dna methylation array with single cpg site resolution.,we have developed a new generation of genome-wide dna methylation beadchip which allows high-throughput methylation profiling of the human genome. the new high density beadchip can assay over 480k cpg sites and analyze twelve samples in parallel. the innovative content includes coverage of 99% of refseq genes with multiple probes per gene  96% of cpg islands from the ucsc database  cpg island shores and additional content selected from whole-genome bisulfite sequencing data and input from dna methylation experts. the well-characterized infinium® assay is used for analysis of cpg methylation using bisulfite-converted genomic dna. we applied this technology to analyze dna methylation in normal and tumor dna samples and compared results with whole-genome bisulfite sequencing (wgbs) data obtained for the same samples. highly comparable dna methylation profiles were generated by the array and sequencing methods (average r2 of 0.95). the ability to determine genome-wide methylation patterns will rapidly advance methylation research.
4605,molecular mechanisms of mammalian dna repair and the dna damage checkpoints.,dna damage is a relatively common event in the life of a cell and may lead to mutation  cancer  and cellular or organismic death. damage to dna induces several cellular responses that enable the cell either to eliminate or cope with the damage or to activate a programmed cell death process  presumably to eliminate cells with potentially catastrophic mutations. these dna damage response reactions include: (a) removal of dna damage and restoration of the continuity of the dna duplex; (b) activation of a dna damage checkpoint  which arrests cell cycle progression so as to allow for repair and prevention of the transmission of damaged or incompletely replicated chromosomes; (c) transcriptional response  which causes changes in the transcription profile that may be beneficial to the cell; and (d) apoptosis  which eliminates heavily damaged or seriously deregulated cells. dna repair mechanisms include direct repair  base excision repair  nucleotide excision repair  double-strand break repair  and cross-link repair. the dna damage checkpoints employ damage sensor proteins  such as atm  atr  the rad17-rfc complex  and the 9-1-1 complex  to detect dna damage and to initiate signal transduction cascades that employ chk1 and chk2 ser/thr kinases and cdc25 phosphatases. the signal transducers activate p53 and inactivate cyclin-dependent kinases to inhibit cell cycle progression from g1 to s (the g1/s checkpoint)  dna replication (the intra-s checkpoint)  or g2 to mitosis (the g2/m checkpoint). in this review the molecular mechanisms of dna repair and the dna damage checkpoints in mammalian cells are analyzed.
4607,short-term medical service trips: a systematic review of the evidence.,short-term medical service trips (msts) aim to address unmet health care needs of low- and middle-income countries. the lack of critically reviewed empirical evidence of activities and outcomes is a concern. developing evidence-based recommendations for health care delivery requires systematic research review. i focused on mst publications with empirical results. searches in may 2013 identified 67 studies published since 1993  only 6% of the published articles on the topic in the past 20 years. nearly 80% reported on surgical trips. although the mst field is growing  its medical literature lags behind  with nearly all of the scholarly publications lacking significant data collection. by incorporating data collection into service trips  groups can validate practices and provide information about areas needing improvement.
4609,tumor engraftment in nude mice and enrichment in stroma- related gene pathways predict poor survival and resistance to gemcitabine in patients with pancreatic cancer.,purpose the goal of this study was to evaluate prospectively the engraftment rate  factors influencing engraftment  and predictability of clinical outcome of low-passage xenografts from patients with resectable pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (pda) and to establish a bank of pda xenografts. experimental design patients with resectable pda scheduled for resection at the johns hopkins hospital were eligible. representative pieces of tumor were implanted in nude mice. the status of the smad4 gene and content of tumor-generating cells were determined by immunohistochemistry. gene expression was carried out by using a u133 plus 2.0 array. patients were followed for progression and survival. results a total of 94 patients with pda were resected  69 tumors implanted in nude mice  and 42 (61%) engrafted. engrafted carcinomas were more often smad4 mutant  and had a metastatic gene expression signature and worse prognosis. tumors from patients resistant to gemcitabine were enriched in stroma-related gene pathways. tumors sensitive to gemcitabine were enriched in cell cycle and pyrimidine gene pathways. the time to progression for patients who received treatment with gemcitabine for metastatic disease (n = 7) was double in patients with xenografts sensitive to gemcitabine. conclusion a successful xenograft was generated in 61% of patients attempted  generating a pool of 42 pda xenografts with significant biological information and annotated clinical data. patients with pda and smad4 inactivation have a better engraftment rate. engraftment is a poor prognosis factor  and engrafted tumors have a metastatic gene expression signature. tumors from gemcitabine-resistant patients were enriched in stromal pathways.
4611,the 5tmm series: a useful in vivo mouse model of human multiple myeloma.,the present invention provides a combination sink and dishwashing apparatus having a sink sharing a common side wall with a cabinet which defines a closed space. the cabinet has a wire basket for holding and washing a plurality of dishes within the cabinet. the common side wall is a part of the cabinet that defines the closed space and is positioned to form one side of the sink. the common side wall can be opened to allow the wire basket to slide from within the cabinet and into the sink  for loading and unloading the dishes. within the cabinet  the invention contains a pump powered by a motor  the pump spraying water through a rotatably mounted spray arm onto the dishes to wash them  as with traditional dishwashing machines. the invention preferably includes a garbage disposal which is also powered by the motor. in an alternative embodiment  this invention can include two cabinets as described above  each located on opposing sides of the sink.
4613,a20 is overexpressed in glioma cells and may serve as a potential therapeutic target.,objective a20 is a tnf-inducible primary response gene  which has been found to have antiapoptotic function in several cancer cells. this study investigates a20 expression in human glioma tissues and four glioma cell lines  and its effect on tumorigenesis of glioma cells and a mouse tumor model. methods human glioma tissue samples and cells were subject to reverse transcription-pcr (rt-pcr)  western blotting and immunohistochemistry. glioma cells was tested by flow cytometry. a xenograft tumor model in mice was utilized to examine the knock-down effect of specific a20 sirnas on tumorigenesis. results a20 was overexpressed in clinical glioma tissue samples (63.9%) and correlated with clinical staging. all four human glioma cell lines expressed a20  among which u87 displayed the strongest expression signals. inhibiting a20 expression by sirnas in vitro reduced the growth rates of glioma cells and resulted in g1/s arrest and increased apoptosis. in a mouse tumor model  local administration of sirna significantly suppressed solid tumor growth. conclusions a20 was overexpressed both in human glioma tissues and cell lines  and inhibiting a20 expression greatly slowed tumor cell growth in culture and in mice. these findings indicated that a20 is involved in tumorigenesis of human glioma  and may serve as a future therapeutic target.
4615,a live attenuated chimeric west nile virus vaccine  rwn/den4&dgr;30  is well tolerated and immunogenic in flavivirus-naive older adult volunteers,west nile virus (wnv) is a major cause of mosquito-borne illness in the united states. human disease ranges from mild febrile illness to severe fatal neurologic infection. adults aged >60 years are more susceptible to neuroinvasive disease accompanied by a high mortality rate or long-lasting neurologic sequelae. a chimeric live attenuated west nile virus vaccine  rwn/den4&dgr;30  was shown to be safe and immunogenic in healthy adults aged 18–50 years. this study evaluated rwn/den4&dgr;30 in flavivirus-naive adults aged 50–65 years and found it to be safe and immunogenic. outbreaks of wnv infection tend to be unpredictable  and a safe and effective vaccine will be an important public health tool.
4617,the cause of hepatic accumulation of fructose 1-phosphate on fructose loading.,1. the changes in the metabolite content in freeze-clamped livers of fed rats occurring on perfusion with 10mm-d-fructose have been examined. 2. the most striking effects of fructose were an accumulation of fructose 1-phosphate  as already known  up to 8.7mumol/g of liver within 10min  a loss of total adenine nucleotides (up to 35% after 40min) with a decrease in the atp content to 23% within 10min  a sevenfold rise in the concentration of imp to 1.1mumol/g and an eightfold rise of alpha-glycerophosphate to 1.1mumol/g. 3. there was a transient decrease in p(i) from 4.2 to 1.7mumol/g. within 40min the p(i) content recovered to the normal value  probably because of an uptake of p(i) from the perfusion medium. 4. the degradation of the adenine nucleotides beyond the stage of amp can be accounted for by the decrease of atp and p(i). as atp inhibits 5-nucleotidase  and as p(i) inhibits amp deaminase any amp arising in the tissue is liable to undergo dephosphorylation or deamination under the conditions occurring after fructose loading. 5. the content of lactate increased to 4.3mumol/g at 80min; pyruvate also increased and the [lactate]/[pyruvate] ratio remained within physiological limits. 6. the concentration of free fructose within the liver remained much below that in the perfusion medium  indicating that the rate of penetration of fructose into the tissue was lower than the rate of utilization. 7. the fission of fructose 1-phosphate by liver aldolase is inhibited by several phosphorylated intermediates  especially by imp. this inhibition is competitive with a k(i) of 0.1mm. 8. the maximal rates of the enzymes synthesizing and splitting fructose 1-phosphate are about equal. the accumulation of fructose 1-phosphate on fructose loading is due to the inhibition of the fission of fructose 1-phosphate by the imp arising from the degradation of the adenine nucleotides.
4619,ubiquitinylation of the cytosolic domain of a type i membrane protein is not required to initiate its dislocation from the endoplasmic reticulum.,human cytomegalovirus us2 and us11 target newly synthesized class i major histocompatibility complex (mhc) heavy chains for rapid degradation by the proteasome through a process termed dislocation. the presence of us2 induces the formation of class i mhc heavy chain conjugates of increased molecular weight that are recognized by a conformation-specific monoclonal antibody  w6/32  suggesting that these class i mhc molecules retain their proper tertiary structure. these conjugates are properly folded glycosylated heavy chains modified by attachment of an estimated one  two  and three ubiquitin molecules. the folded ubiquitinated class i mhc heavy chains are not observed in control cells or in cells transfected with us11  suggesting that us2 targets class i mhc heavy chains for dislocation in a manner distinct from that used by us11. this is further supported by the fact that us2 and us11 show different requirements in terms of the conformation of the heavy chain molecule. although ubiquitin conjugation may occur on the cytosolic tail of the class i mhc molecule  replacement of lysines in the cytosolic tail of heavy chains with arginine does not prevent their degradation by us2. in an in vitro system that recapitulates us2-mediated dislocation  heavy chains that lack these lysines still occur in an ubiquitin-modified form  but in the soluble (cytoplasmic) fraction. such ubiquitin conjugation can only occur on the class i mhc lumenal domain and is likely to take place once class i mhc heavy chains have been discharged from the endoplasmic reticulum. we conclude that ubiquitinylation of class i mhc heavy chain is not required during the initial step of the us2-mediated dislocation reaction.
4621,corticosteroid injections for shoulder pain.,background while many treatments  including corticosteroid injections in and around the shoulder  are advocated to be of benefit for shoulder pain  few are of proven efficacy. this review of corticosteroid injections for shoulder pain is one in a series of reviews of varying interventions for shoulder disorders. objectives to determine the efficacy and safety of corticosteroid injections in the treatment of adults with shoulder pain. search strategy medline  embase  cinahl  central and science citation index were searched up to and including june 2002. selection criteria randomised and pseudo-randomised trials in all languages of corticosteroid injections compared to placebo or another intervention  or of varying types and dosages of steroid injection in adults with shoulder pain. specific exclusions were duration of shoulder pain less than three weeks  rheumatoid arthritis  polymyalgia rheumatica and fracture. data collection and analysis trial inclusion and methodological quality was assessed by two independent reviewers according to predetermined criteria. results are presented separately for rotator cuff disease  adhesive capsulitis  full thickness rotator cuff tear and mixed diagnoses  and  where possible  combined in meta-analysis. main results twenty-six trials met inclusion criteria. the number  site and dosage of injections varied widely between studies. the number of participants per trial ranged from 20 to 114 (median 52 participants). methodological quality was variable. for rotator cuff disease  subacromial steroid injection was demonstrated to have a small benefit over placebo in some trials however no benefit of subacromial steroid injection over nsaid was demonstrated based upon the pooled results of three trials. for adhesive capsulitis  two trials suggested a possible early benefit of intra-articular steroid injection over placebo but there was insufficient data for pooling of any of the trials. one trial suggested short-term benefit of intra-articular corticosteroid injection over physiotherapy in the short-term (success at seven weeks rr=1.66 (1.21  2.28). reviewer's conclusions despite many rcts of corticosteroid injections for shoulder pain  their small sample sizes  variable methodological quality and heterogeneity means that there is little overall evidence to guide treatment. subacromial corticosteroid injection for rotator cuff disease and intra-articular injection for adhesive capsulitis may be beneficial although their effect may be small and not well-maintained. there is a need for further trials investigating the efficacy of corticosteroid injections for shoulder pain. other important issues that remain to be clarified include whether the accuracy of needle placement  anatomical site  frequency  dose and type of corticosteroid influences efficacy.
4623,the aurora b kinase promotes inner and outer kinetochore interactions in budding yeast.,the kinetochore is the macromolecular protein complex that mediates chromosome segregation. the dsn1 component is crucial for kinetochore assembly and is phosphorylated by the aurora b kinase. we found that aurora b phosphorylation of dsn1 promotes the interaction between outer and inner kinetochore proteins in budding yeast.
4625,mammographic density  plasma vitamin d levels and risk of breast cancer in postmenopausal women.,mammographic density is a strong risk factor for breast cancer  but the underlying biology for this association is unknown. studies suggest that vitamin d may reduce breast cancer risk and dietary vitamin d intake has been associated with reduced breast density. we conducted a case-control study nested within the nurses' health study cohort consisting of 463 and 497 postmenopausal cases and controls  respectively. we examined the association between mammographic density and plasma levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin d [25(oh)d] and 1 25-dihydroxyvitamin d [1 25(oh)(2)d]. we assessed whether plasma vitamin d metabolites modify the association between breast density and breast cancer. percent mammographic density was measured from digitized film mammograms. generalized linear models were used to determine mean percent breast density per quartile of vitamin d metabolite. logistic regression models were used to calculate relative risks and confidence intervals. all models were adjusted for matching variables and potential confounders. we found no cross-sectional association between circulating levels of 25(oh)d or 1 25(oh)(2)d with mammographic density. women in the highest tertile of mammographic density and lowest tertile of plasma 25(oh)d had 4 times greater risk of breast cancer than women with the lowest mammographic density and highest plasma 25(oh)d levels (rr = 3.8; 95% ci: 2.0-7.3). the overall interaction between mammographic density and plasma 25(oh)d was nonsignificant (p-het = 0.20). these results indicate that the association between mammographic density and breast cancer is independent of plasma vitamin d metabolites in postmenopausal women. further research examining vitamin d  mammographic density and breast cancer risk is warranted.
4627,arginine starvation impairs mitochondrial respiratory function in ass1-deficient breast cancer cells,autophagy is the principal catabolic response to nutrient starvation and is necessary to clear dysfunctional or damaged organelles  but excessive autophagy can be cytotoxic or cytostatic and contributes to cell death. depending on the abundance of enzymes involved in molecule biosynthesis  cells can be dependent on uptake of exogenous nutrients to provide these molecules. argininosuccinate synthetase 1 (ass1) is a key enzyme in arginine biosynthesis  and its abundance is reduced in many solid tumors  making them sensitive to external arginine depletion. we demonstrated that prolonged arginine starvation by exposure to adi-peg20 (pegylated arginine deiminase) induced autophagy-dependent death of ass1-deficient breast cancer cells  because these cells are arginine auxotrophs (dependent on uptake of extracellular arginine). indeed  these breast cancer cells died in culture when exposed to adi-peg20 or cultured in the absence of arginine. arginine starvation induced mitochondrial oxidative stress  which impaired mitochondrial bioenergetics and integrity. furthermore  arginine starvation killed breast cancer cells in vivo and in vitro only if they were autophagy-competent. thus  a key mechanism underlying the lethality induced by prolonged arginine starvation was the cytotoxic autophagy that occurred in response to mitochondrial damage. last  ass1 was either low in abundance or absent in more than 60% of 149 random breast cancer biosamples  suggesting that patients with such tumors could be candidates for arginine starvation therapy.
4629,what do medical schools teach about women's health and gender differences?,purpose to examine the curricula of u.s. medical schools to assess the inclusion of women's health and gender-specific information and identify institutional characteristics associated with this content. method using data from the association of american medical colleges' curriculum management and information tool (currmit)  in november 2003 to february 2004 the authors performed a curriculum search of schools that entered course/clerkships in currmit to identify interdisciplinary women's health or gender-specific courses/clerkships. a subset of schools that entered comprehensive information in currmit was searched for a specified list of women's health topics and or gender-specific content on any topic. statistical analyses were performed to assess the relationship between frequency of topics and school characteristics. results the authors identified 95 schools that entered related courses/clerkships. ten courses/clerkships at nine schools met criteria for an interdisciplinary women's health course/clerkship. in the subset of 60 schools with comprehensive currmit information  18 specified women's health topics were identified  as well as 24 topics on gender-specific content  for a total of 42 topics. the number of topics taught ranged from zero to 26 (mean = 11). more than 50% of these schools taught 11 of the 18 specified topics  while fewer than 30% included gender-specific topics. there was no association in bivariate analysis between the mean number of topics taught and schools' characteristics; however  a women's health program (p= .01) and female dean (p= .06) were positively associated in a regression model. conclusions few schools offer interdisciplinary women's health courses/clerkships or include gender-specific information in their curricula. a designated women's health program may increase this content in schools' curricula.
4631,cocoa flavonols and procyanidins promote transforming growth factor-beta1 homeostasis in peripheral blood mononuclear cells.,evidence suggests that certain flavan-3-ols and procyanidins (fp) can have a positive influence on cardiovascular health. it has been previously reported that fp isolated from cocoa can potentially modulate the level and production of several signaling molecules associated with immune function and inflammation  including several cytokines and eicosanoids. in the present study  we examined whether fp fractions monomers through decamers modulate secretion of the cytokine transforming growth factor (tgf)-beta(1) from resting human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (pbmc). a total of 13 healthy subjects were studied and grouped according to their baseline production of tgf-beta(1). when cells from individuals with low baseline levels of tgf-beta(1) (n = 7) were stimulated by individual fp fractions (25 microg/ml)  tgf-beta(1) release was enhanced in the range of 15%-66% over baseline (p < 0.05; monomer  dimer  and tetramer). the low-molecular-weight fp fractions (<or=pentamer) were more effective at augmenting tgf-beta(1) secretion than their larger counterparts (>or=hexamer)  with the monomer and dimer inducing the greatest increases (66% and 68%  respectively). in contrast to the above  tgf-beta(1) secretion from high tgf-beta(1) baseline subjects (n = 6) was inhibited by individual fp fractions (p < 0.05; trimer through decamer). the inhibition was most pronounced with trimeric through decameric fractions (28%-42%)  and monomers and dimers moderately inhibited tgf-beta(1) release (17% and 23%  respectively). given the vascular actions associated with tgf-beta(1)  we suggest that in healthy individuals  homeostatic modulation of its production by fp offers an additional mechanism by which fp-rich foods can potentially benefit cardiovascular health.
4633,early intermittent noninvasive ventilation for acute chest syndrome in adults with sickle cell disease: a pilot study,alveolar hypoxia and hypoxic vasoconstriction lead to trapping of sickle cells within the pulmonary vasculature. improving alveolar ventilation and oxygenation may improve the outcome of acute chest syndrome (acs). prospective randomized single-center open study from november 1998 to february 2002 to test whether noninvasive ventilation (niv) was more effective than oxygen alone in improving oxygenation on day 3 in adults with acs and to evaluate the effects on pain  transfusion requirements  and length of stay. seventy-one consecutive acs episodes in 67 patients were randomly allocated to oxygen (n = 36) or niv (n = 35) for 3 days in a medical step-down unit. baseline respiratory rate and pain score were higher in the niv group. niv promptly lowered the respiratory rate  raised $$ {\text{pa}}_{{\text{o}_{2}}} $$   and decreased alveolar–arterial oxygen gradient $$ (({\text{a}} - {\text{a}})_{{{\text{o}}_{ 2} }} ) $$   which remained unchanged with oxygen alone. $$ {\text{pa}}_{{{\text{co}}_{ 2} }} $$ significantly worsened only in the oxygen group. on day 3  the groups did not differ regarding the proportion of episodes with normal $$ {\text{pa}}_{{{\text{o}}_{ 2} }} $$ (35% with niv and 25% with oxygen; p = 0.5) or $$ (({\text{a}} - {\text{a}})_{{{\text{o}}_{ 2} }} ) $$ . patient satisfaction and compliance were lower with niv. no differences were noted in pain relief  transfusions  or length of stay. in the subgroup of patients with severe hypoxemia $$ ( {\text{pa}}_{{{\text{o}}_{ 2} }} \le 6 5\ {\text{mmhg)}} $$   physiological variables also improved faster with niv  the differences being slightly more pronounced. respiratory rate and gas exchange improved faster with niv. however  niv failed to significantly reduce the number of patients remaining hypoxemic at day 3  and was associated with greater patient discomfort.
4635,human cytomegalovirus encodes an mhc class i-like molecule (ul142) that functions to inhibit nk cell lysis.,clinical and low passage strains of human cmv (hcmv) encode an additional mhc class i-related molecule ul142  in addition to the previously described ul18. the ul142 open reading frame is encoded within the ulb' region which is missing from a number of common high passage laboratory strains. cells expressing ul142 following transfection  and fibroblasts infected with a recombinant adenovirus-expressing ul142  were used to screen both polyclonal nk cells and nk cell clones  in a completely autologous system. analysis of 100 nk cell clones derived from five donors  revealed 23 clones that were inhibited by fibroblasts expressing ul142 alone. small-interfering rna-mediated knockdown of ul142 mrna expression in hcmv-infected cells resulted in increased sensitivity to lysis. from these data we conclude that ul142 is a novel hcmv-encoded mhc class i-related molecule which inhibits nk cell killing in a clonally dependent manner.
4637,a chart review of cyproheptadine for stimulant-induced weight loss.,youths with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder often experience weight loss on stimulants  which may limit optimal dosing and compliance. cyproheptadine has been shown in medical samples to stimulate weight gain. we conducted a retrospective chart review of 28 consecutive pediatric psychiatry outpatients prescribed cyproheptadine for weight loss or insomnia while on stimulants. of these  4 patients never took cyproheptadine consistently  and 3 discontinued it within the first 7 days due to intolerable side effects. data were analyzed for 21 other patients (age range 4-15 years) who continued with 4-8 mg of cyproheptadine nightly (mean final dose = 4.9 mg/day) for at least 14 days (mean duration = 104.7 days). most had lost weight on stimulant alone (mean weight loss was 2.1 kg  mean weight velocity was -19.3 g/day). all 21 gained weight taking concomitant cyproheptadine  with a mean gain of 2.2 kg (paired t = 6.87  p < 0.0001) and a mean weight velocity of 32.3 g/day. eleven of 17 patients who had reported initial insomnia on stimulant alone noted significant improvements in sleep with cyproheptadine added. we conclude that concomitant cyproheptadine may be useful in youths with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder for stimulant-induced weight loss  pending future randomized controlled trials.
4639,osteoclast nuclei of myeloma patients show chromosome translocations specific for the myeloma cell clone: a new type of cancer-host partnership?,a major clinical manifestation of bone cancers is bone destruction. it is widely accepted that this destruction is not caused by the malignant cells themselves  but by osteoclasts  multinucleated cells of monocytic origin that are considered to be the only cells able to degrade bone. the present study demonstrates that bone-resorbing osteoclasts from myeloma patients contain nuclei with translocated chromosomes of myeloma b-cell clone origin  in addition to nuclei without these translocations  by using combined fish and immunohistochemistry on bone sections. these nuclei of malignant origin are transcriptionally active and appear fully integrated amongst the other nuclei. the contribution of malignant nuclei to the osteoclast population analysed in this study was greater than 30%. osteoclast-myeloma clone hybrids contained more nuclei than normal osteoclasts and their occurrence correlated with the proximity of myeloma cells. similar hybrid cells were generated in myeloma cell-osteoclast co-cultures  as revealed by tracing myeloma nuclei using translocations  bromo-deoxyuridine  or the y chromosome of male myeloma cells in female osteoclasts. these observations indicate that hybrid cells can originate through fusion between myeloma cells and osteoclasts. in conclusion  malignant cells contribute significantly to the formation of bone-resorbing osteoclasts in multiple myeloma. osteoclast-myeloma clone hybrids reflect a previously unrecognized mechanism of bone destruction in which malignant cells participate directly. the possibility that malignant cells corrupt host cells by the transfer of malignant dna may have been underestimated to date in cancer research.
4641,interventions by pharmacists in out-patient pharmaceutical care.,interventions by the pharmacists have always been considered as a valuable input by the health care community in the patient care process by reducing the medication errors  rationalizing the therapy and reducing the cost of therapy. the primary objective of this study was to determine the number and types of medication errors intervened by the dispensing pharmacists at opd pharmacy in the khoula hospital during 2009 retrospectively. the interventions filed by the pharmacists and assistant pharmacists in opd pharmacy were collected. then they were categorized and analyzed after a detailed review. the results show that 72.3% of the interventions were minor of which 40.5% were about change medication order. comparatively more numbers of prescriptions were intervened in female patients than male patients. 98.2% of the interventions were accepted by the prescribers reflecting the awareness of the doctors about the importance of the pharmacy practice. in this study only 688 interventions were due to prescribing errors of which 40.5% interventions were done in changing the medication order of clarifying the medicine. 14.9% of the interventions were related to administrative issues  8.7% of the interventions were related to selection of medications as well as errors due to ignorance of history of patients. 8.2% of the interventions were to address the overdose of medications. moderately significant interventions were observed in 19.4% and 7.5% of them were having the impact on major medication errors. pharmacists have intervened 20.8% of the prescriptions to prevent complications  25.1% were to rationalize the treatment  7.9% of them were to improve compliance. based on the results we conclude that the role of pharmacist in improving the health care system is vital. we recommend more number of such research based studies to bring awareness among health care professionals  provide solution to the prescription and dispensing problems  as it can also improve the documentation system  emphasize the importance of it  reduce prescribing errors  and update the knowledge of pharmacists and other health care professionals.
4643,(99m)tc-hisodgr as a potential spect probe for orthotopic glioma detection via targeting of integrin α5β1.,integrins  a large family of cell adhesion receptors  have been shown to play an important role for glioma proliferation and invasion. several integrin receptors  including αvβ3  αvβ5  and α5β1  have generated clinical interest for glioma diagnosis and antitumor therapy. integrin α5β1 has been highlighted as a prognostic and diagnostic marker in glioma  and its expression is correlated with a worse prognosis in high-grade glioma. however  unlike extensively studied integrins αvβ3 and αvβ5  very few integrin α5β1-specific radiotracers have been reported. developing α5β1-specific radiotracers may provide alternative diagnosis and evaluation options in addition to well-studied αvβ3/αvβ5-specific tracers  and they may add new documents for profiling tumor progression. here  a novel integrin α5β1-specific probe (99m)tc-hisodgr was fabricated for spect (single-photon emission computed tomography) imaging of glioma. to confirm its selective targeting of integrin α5β1 in vivo  the mouse models of α5β1-positive u87mg human glioma were subjected to spect/ct scans  and biodistribution experiments and blocking studies were performed. small-animal spect/ct imaging experiments demonstrated that the tumors were clearly visualized in both subcutaneous and orthotopic glioma tumor models with clear background at 0.5  1  and 2 h p.i. the tumor accumulation of (99m)tc-hisodgr showed significant reduction when excess cold isodgr peptide was coinjected  suggesting that the tumor uptake was specifically mediated. our work revealed that (99m)tc-hisodgr represented a powerful molecular probe for integrin α5β1-positive cancer imaging; moreover  it might be a promising tool for evaluating malignancy  predicting prognosis  selecting subpopulations of patients who might be sensitive to integrin α5β1-targeted drugs  and assessing and monitoring the response to integrin α5β1-targeted drugs in clinical trials.
4645,interaction of tnf with tnf receptor type 2 promotes expansion and function of mouse cd4+cd25+ t regulatory cells.,although tnf is a major proinflammatory cytokine  increasing evidence indicates that tnf also has immunosuppressive feedback effects. we have demonstrated in this study that  in both resting and activated states  mouse peripheral cd4(+)cd25(+) t regulatory cells (tregs) expressed remarkably higher surface levels of tnfr2 than cd4(+)cd25(-) t effector cells (teffs). in cocultures of tregs and teffs  inhibition of proliferation of teffs by tregs was initially transiently abrogated by exposure to tnf  but longer exposure to tnf restored suppressive effects. cytokine production by teffs remained continually suppressed by tregs. the profound anergy of tregs in response to tcr stimulation was overcome by tnf  which expanded the treg population. furthermore  in synergy with il-2  tnf expanded tregs even more markedly up-regulated expression of cd25 and foxp3 and phosphorylation of stat5  and enhanced the suppressive activity of tregs. unlike tnf  il-1beta and il-6 did not up-regulate foxp3-expressing tregs. furthermore  the number of tregs increased in wild-type mice  but not in tnfr2(-/-) mice following sublethal cecal ligation and puncture. depletion of tregs significantly decreased mortality following cecal ligation and puncture. thus  the stimulatory effect of tnf on tregs resembles the reported costimulatory effects of tnf on teffs  but is even more pronounced because of the higher expression of tnfr2 by tregs. moreover  our study suggests that the slower response of tregs than teffs to tnf results in delayed immunosuppressive feedback effects.
4647,child maltreatment  other trauma exposure  and posttraumatic symptomatology among children with oppositional defiant and attention deficit hyperactivity disorders.,consecutive child psychiatric outpatient admissions with disruptive behavior or adjustment disorders were assessed by validated instruments for trauma exposure and posttraumatic stress disorder (ptsd) symptoms and other psychopathology. four reliably diagnosed groups were defined in a retrospective case-control design: attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (adhd)  oppositional defiant disorder (odd)  comorbid adhd-odd  and adjustment disorder controls. odd and (although to a lesser extent) adhd were associated with a history of physical or sexual maltreatment. ptsd symptoms were most severe if (a) adhd and maltreatment co-occurred or (b) odd and accident/illness trauma co-occurred. the association between odd and ptsd criterion d (hyperarousal/hypervigilance) symptoms remained after controlling for overlapping symptoms  but the association of adhd with ptsd symptoms was largely due to an overlapping symptom. these findings suggest that screening for maltreatment  other trauma  and ptsd symptoms may enhance prevention  treatment  and research concerning childhood disruptive behavior disorders.
4649,use of a targeted oncolytic poxvirus  jx-594  in patients with refractory primary or metastatic liver cancer: a phase i trial.,background jx-594 is a targeted oncolytic poxvirus designed to selectively replicate in and destroy cancer cells with cell-cycle abnormalities and epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr)-ras pathway activation. direct oncolysis plus granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (gm-csf) expression also stimulates shutdown of tumour vasculature and antitumoral immunity. we aimed to assess intratumoral injection of jx-594 in patients with refractory primary or metastatic liver cancer. methods between jan 4  2006  and july 4  2007  14 patients with histologically confirmed refractory primary or metastatic liver tumours (up to 10.9 cm total diameter) that were amenable to image-guided intratumoral injections were enrolled into this non-comparative  open-label  phase i dose-escalation trial (standard 3x3 design; two to six patients for each dose with 12-18 estimated total patients). patients received one of four doses of intratumoral jx-594 (10(8) plaque-forming units [pfu]  3x10(8) pfu  10(9) pfu  or 3x10(9) pfu) every 3 weeks at dong-a university hospital (busan  south korea). patients were monitored after treatment for at least 48 h in hospital and for at least 4 weeks as out-patients. adverse event-monitoring according to the national cancer institute common toxicity criteria (version 3) and standard laboratory toxicity grading for haematology  liver and renal function  coagulation studies  serum chemistry  and urinalysis were done. the primary aims were to ascertain the maximum-tolerated dose (mtd) and safety of jx-594 treatment. data were also collected on pharmacokinetics  pharmacodynamics  and efficacy. analysis was per protocol. this study is registered with clinicaltrials.gov  number nct00629759. findings of 22 patients with liver tumours who were assessed for eligibility  eight patients did not meet inclusion criteria. therefore  14 patients  including those with hepatocellular  colorectal  melanoma  and lung cancer  were enrolled. patients were heavily pretreated (5.6 previous treatments  sd 2.8  range 2.0-12.0) and had large tumours (7.0 cm diameter  sd 2.7  range 1.8-10.9). patients received a mean of 3.4 (sd 2.2  range 1.0-8.0) cycles of jx-594. all patients were evaluable for toxicity. all patients experienced grade i-iii flu-like symptoms  and four had transient grade i-iii dose-related thrombocytopenia. grade iii hyperbilirubinaemia was dose-limiting in both patients at the highest dose; the mtd was therefore 1x10(9) pfu. jx-594 replication-dependent dissemination in blood was shown  with resultant infection of non-injected tumour sites. gm-csf expression resulted in grade i-iii increases in neutrophil counts in four of six patients at the mtd. tumour responses were shown in injected and non-injected tumours. ten patients were radiographically evaluable for objective responses; non-evaluable patients had contraindications to contrast medium (n=2) or no post-treatment scans (n=2). according to response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (recist)  three patients had partial response  six had stable disease  and one had progressive disease. interpretation intratumoral injection of jx-594 into primary or metastatic liver tumours was generally well-tolerated. direct hyperbilirubinaemia was the dose-limiting toxicity. safety was acceptable in the context of jx-594 replication  gm-csf expression  systemic dissemination  and jx-594 had anti-tumoral effects against several refractory carcinomas. phase ii trials are now underway.
4651,snail coordinately regulates downstream pathways to control multiple aspects of mammalian neural precursor development.,the snail transcription factor plays a key role in regulating diverse developmental processes but is not thought to play a role in mammalian neural precursors. here  we have examined radial glial precursor cells of the embryonic murine cortex and demonstrate that snail regulates their survival  self-renewal  and differentiation into intermediate progenitors and neurons via two distinct and separable target pathways. first  snail promotes cell survival by antagonizing a p53-dependent death pathway because coincident p53 knockdown rescues survival deficits caused by snail knockdown. second  we show that the cell cycle phosphatase cdc25b is regulated by snail in radial precursors and that cdc25b coexpression is sufficient to rescue the decreased radial precursor proliferation and differentiation observed upon snail knockdown. thus  snail acts via p53 and cdc25b to coordinately regulate multiple aspects of mammalian embryonic neural precursor biology.
4653,synapsin i cre transgene expression in male mice produces germline recombination in progeny.,the cre/loxp system can produce conditional loss of gene function in specific cell types such as neurons. a transgenic mouse line  utilized by multiple studies  used the synapsin i promoter to drive expression of cre (syncre) to achieve neuronal-specific cre expression. herein we describe that cre expression can also be observed in syncre mice within the testes after being bred into a floxed transgenic mouse line. cre transcript was expressed in testes resulting in recombination of the floxed substrate in testes. in the majority of cases  progeny of male syncre mice inherited a germline recombined floxed allele  while this was never observed in progeny from female mice carrying the syncre allele. this observation should alert investigators to a potential confound using these mice and enables male germ cell "deletor" strategies.
4655,cd11b+ monocytes abrogate th17 cd4+ t cell-mediated experimental autoimmune myocarditis.,experimental autoimmune myocarditis (eam) represents a th17 t cell-mediated mouse model of postinflammatory heart disease. in balb/c wild-type mice  eam is a self-limiting disease  peaking 21 days after alpha-myosin h chain peptide (myhc-alpha)/cfa immunization and largely resolving thereafter. in ifn-gammar(-/-) mice  however  eam is exacerbated and shows a chronic progressive disease course. we found that this progressive disease course paralleled persistently elevated il-17 release from t cells infiltrating the hearts of ifn-gammar(-/-) mice 30 days after immunization. in fact  il-17 promoted the recruitment of cd11b(+) monocytes  the major heart-infiltrating cells in eam. in turn  cd11b(+) monocytes suppressed myhc-alpha-specific th17 t cell responses ifn-gamma-dependently in vitro. in vivo  injection of ifn-gammar(+/+)cd11b(+)  but not ifn-gammar(-/-)cd11b(+)  monocytes  suppressed myhc-alpha-specific t cells  and abrogated the progressive disease course in ifn-gammar(-/-) mice. finally  coinjection of myhc-alpha-specific  but not ova-transgenic  ifn-gamma-releasing cd4(+) th1 t cell lines  together with myhc-alpha-specific th17 t cells protected rag2(-/-) mice from eam. in conclusion  cd11b(+) monocytes play a dual role in eam: as a major cellular substrate of il-17-induced inflammation and as mediators of an ifn-gamma-dependent negative feedback loop confining disease progression.
4657,fibrosis and adipogenesis originate from a common mesenchymal progenitor in skeletal muscle.,accumulation of adipocytes and collagen type-i-producing cells (fibrosis) is observed in muscular dystrophies. the origin of these cells had been largely unknown  but recently we identified mesenchymal progenitors positive for platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha (pdgfrα) as the origin of adipocytes in skeletal muscle. however  the origin of muscle fibrosis remains largely unknown. in this study  clonal analyses show that pdgfrα(+) cells also differentiate into collagen type-i-producing cells. in fact  pdgfrα(+) cells accumulated in fibrotic areas of the diaphragm in the mdx mouse  a model of duchenne muscular dystrophy. furthermore  mrna of fibrosis markers was expressed exclusively in the pdgfrα(+) cell fraction in the mdx diaphragm. importantly  tgf-β isoforms  known as potent profibrotic cytokines  induced expression of markers of fibrosis in pdgfrα(+) cells but not in myogenic cells. transplantation studies revealed that fibrogenic pdgfrα(+) cells mainly derived from pre-existing pdgfrα(+) cells and that the contribution of pdgfrα(-) cells and circulating cells was limited. these results indicate that mesenchymal progenitors are the main origin of not only fat accumulation but also fibrosis in skeletal muscle.
4659,mitochondrial respiration in subcutaneous and visceral adipose tissue from patients with morbid obesity.,adipose tissue exerts important endocrine and metabolic functions in health and disease. yet the bioenergetics of this tissue is not characterized in humans and possible regional differences are not elucidated. using high resolution respirometry  mitochondrial respiration was quantified in human abdominal subcutaneous and intra-abdominal visceral (omentum majus) adipose tissue from biopsies obtained in 20 obese patients undergoing bariatric surgery. mitochondrial dna (mtdna) and genomic dna (gdna) were determined by the pcr technique for estimation of mitochondrial density. adipose tissue samples were permeabilized and respirometric measurements were performed in duplicate at 37 degrees c. substrates (glutamate (g) + malate (m) + octanoyl carnitine (o) + succinate (s)) were added sequentially to provide electrons to complex i + ii. adp ((d)) for state 3 respiration was added after gm. uncoupled respiration was measured after addition of fccp. visceral fat contained more mitochondria per milligram of tissue than subcutaneous fat  but the cells were smaller. robust  stable oxygen fluxes were found in both tissues  and coupled state 3 (gmos(d)) and uncoupled respiration were significantly (p < 0.05) higher in visceral (0.95 +/- 0.05 and 1.15 +/- 0.06 pmol o(2) s(1) mg(1)  respectively) compared with subcutaneous (0.76 +/- 0.04 and 0.98 +/- 0.05 pmol o(2) s(1) mg(1)  respectively) adipose tissue. expressed per mtdna  visceral adipose tissue had significantly (p < 0.05) lower mitochondrial respiration. substrate control ratios were higher and uncoupling control ratio lower (p < 0.05) in visceral compared with subcutaneous adipose tissue. we conclude that visceral fat is bioenergetically more active and more sensitive to mitochondrial substrate supply than subcutaneous fat. oxidative phosphorylation has a higher relative activity in visceral compared with subcutaneous adipose tissue.
4661,impact of tnf-alpha and il-6 levels on development of cachexia in newly diagnosed nsclc patients.,objectives we investigated the role of cytokines tumor necrosis factor-alpha (tnf-alpha) and interleukin-6 (il-6) in cachexia development in newly diagnosed nonsmall cell lung cancer (nsclc) patients. methods : we evaluated 44 (m/f:41/3) nsclc patients and 12 (m/f:10/2) age matched healthy smokers. nsclc cases with a weight loss of > or =10% consisted the cachectic group (n:23  m/f:21/2) and the ones with <10% weight loss consisted the noncachectic group (n:21  m/f:19/2). results body mass index (bmi) of cachectics was significantly lower than that of noncachectics (21.0 +/- 2.9 versus 24.5 +/- 3.6  p = 0.02) and controls (21.0 +/- 2.9 versus 25.5 +/- 2.6  p = 0.01). serum tnf-alpha level did not differ between cachectic and noncachectics (37.3 +/- 39.1 and 51.6 +/- 84.2 pg/ml  respectively). however  it was significantly higher in nsclc patients compared with controls (44.1 +/- 64.3 and 15.1 +/- 14.3 pg/ml  p = 0.03). serum il-6 level was not different between 3 groups (6.4 +/- 4.1  8.9 +/- 16.3  and 4.1 +/- 3.5 pg/ml  respectively) but it correlated significantly with tnf-alpha (r = 0.4  p = 0.006) and bmi (r = -0.3  p = 0.03). erythrocyte sedimentation rate (esr) correlated significantly with tnf-alpha (r = 0.4  p = 0.003) and bmi (r = -0.3  p = 0.03). among 44 cases  survival of 12 and 17 patients was recorded in cachectics and noncachectics  with no statistical difference (12.2 +/- 3.7 and 11.2 +/- 1.0 months  respectively). conclusions tnf-alpha and il-6 levels did not differ significantly between cachectics and noncachectics. however  significant correlations between il-6  bmi  and tnf-alpha suggested that these cytokines acted as cofactors in weight loss. survival was neither influenced by bmi  nor the cytokine levels in the present study. the significant correlation of esr with tnf-alpha suggested that esr could provide valuable clue for considerable weight loss in the follow-up of nsclc patients.
4663,noncoding transcription at enhancers: general principles and functional models.,mammalian genomes are extensively transcribed outside the borders of protein-coding genes. genome-wide studies recently demonstrated that cis-regulatory genomic elements implicated in transcriptional control  such as enhancers and locus-control regions  represent major sites of extragenic noncoding transcription. enhancer-templated transcripts provide a quantitatively small contribution to the total amount of cellular nonribosomal rna; nevertheless  the possibility that enhancer transcription and the resulting enhancer rnas may  in some cases  have functional roles  rather than represent mere transcriptional noise at accessible genomic regions  is supported by an increasing amount of experimental data. in this article we review the current knowledge on enhancer transcription and its functional implications.
4665,integration of smad and mapk pathways: a link and a linker revisited.,cells develop by reading mixed signals. nowhere is this clearer than in the highly dynamic processes that propel embryogenesis  when critical cell-fate decisions are made swiftly in response to well-orchestrated growthfactor combinations. learning how diverse signaling pathways are integrated is therefore essential for understanding physiology. this requires the identification  in tangible molecular terms  of key nodes for pathway integration that operate in vivo. a report in this issue  on the integration of smad and ras/mapk pathways during neural induction (pera et al. 2003)  provides timely insights into the relevance of one such node. pera et al. (2003) report that fgf8 and igf2—two growth factors that activate the ras/mapk pathway— favor neural differentiation and mesoderm dorsalization in xenopus by inhibiting bmp (bone morphogenetic protein) signaling. mesoderm is formed from ectoderm in response to nodal-related signals from the endoderm at the blastula stage and beyond (fig. 1; for review  see de robertis et al. 2000). bmp induces differentiation of ectoderm into epidermal cell fates at the expense of neural fates  and it ventralizes the mesoderm at the expense of dorsal fates (for review  see weinstein and hemmatibrivanlou 1999; de robertis et al. 2000). accordingly  neural differentiation and dorsal mesoderm formation are favored when bmp signaling is attenuated. noggin  chordin  cerberus  and follistatin  secreted by the spemann organizer on the dorsal side at the gastrula stage  facilitate the formation of neural tissue by sequestering bmp (weinstein and hemmati-brivanlou 1999; de robertis et al. 2000). experimentally blocking bmp signaling with a dominant-negative bmp receptor has a similar effect of promoting ectoderm neuralization (weinstein and hemmati-brivanlou 1999). as it turns out  neural induction can also be achieved with fgf (fibroblast growth factor; kengaku and okamoto 1993; lamb and harland 1995; hongo et al. 1999; hardcastle et al. 2000; streit et al. 2000; wilson et al. 2000) and igf (insulin-like growth factor; pera et al. 2001; richard-parpaillon et al. 2002). injection of transcripts encoding fgf8 or ifg2 into one animal-pole blastomere of a fourto eight-cell embryo results in an expanded neural plate at the injected side (pera et al. 2003). surprisingly  expression of a dominant-negative fgf receptor prevents neuralization of ectoderm explants by the bmp blocker noggin (launay et al. 1996). likewise  the potent neuralizing effect of chordin can be blocked by a dominant-negative fgf receptor or a morpholino oligonucleotide targeting the igf receptor (pera et al. 2003). thus  the neuralizing effect of bmp inhibitors is somehow tied to fgf and ifg signaling. the question is  how? because fgf8 and ifg2 activate mapk  pera et al. (2003) took heed from previous work showing that mapk inhibits the bmp signal-transduction factor smad1 (kretzschmar et al. 1997a). smad1 is directly phosphorylated by the bmp receptor  resulting in smad1 activation (kretzschmar et al. 1997b)  and by mapk in response to egf  resulting in smad1 inhibition (kretzschmar et al. 1997a; fig. 2). smad transcription factors mediate gene responses to the entire tgf (transforming growth factor) family  to which the bmps belong (for review  see massague 2000; derynck and zhang 2003). smads 1  5  and 8 act primarily downstream of bmp receptors and smads 2 and 3 downstream of tgf   activin and nodal receptors. smad proteins have two conserved globular domains—the mh1 and mh2 domains (fig. 2). the mh1 domain is involved in dna binding and the mh2 domain in binding to cytoplasmic retention factors  activated receptors  nucleoporins in the nuclear pore  and dna-binding cofactors  coactivators  and corepressors in the nucleus (for review  see shi and massague 2003). receptor-mediated phosphorylation occurs at the carboxy-terminal sequence sxs. this enables the nuclear accumulation of smads and their association with the shared partner smad4 to form transcriptional complexes that are interpreted by the cell as a function of the context (massague 2000). between the mh1 and mh2 domains lies a linker region of variable sequence and length. attention was drawn to this region when it was found that egf (epidermal growth factor)  a classical activator of the ras/ mapk pathway  causes phosphorylation of the smad1 linker at four mapk sites (pxsp sequences; kretzschmar et al. 1997a). this prevents the nuclear localization of smad1 and inhibits bmp signaling. mutation of these e-mail j-massague@ski.mskcc.org; fax (212) 717-3298. article and publication are at http://www.genesdev.org/cgi/doi/10.1101/ gad.1167003.
4667,lethal complications of typhoid-cholera-vaccination. (case report and review of the literature).,simultaneous parenteral vaccination against typhoid and cholera lead to death through either anaphylactic shock or endotoxic shock in a 36-year-old male. at autopsy the charactertic features of shock as well as chronic interstitial myocarditis were noted. moreover  fresh histiocytic and lymphocytic nodules were found in the liver  heart and meninges. a review of the literature dealing with lethal complications following parenteral tyhoid vaccinations shows an increased risk in debilitated persons (emaciation  stress  cold). most of the fatalities occurred in persons who had previous disturbances of the cardiovascular system  as in the case reviewed here. cardiac failure  landry's paralysis  renal failure and disturbances of skin  joints and intestines may also follow typhoid vaccinations. however  these latter complications are usually not lethal. the patients presented here had many of the conditions which are known to aggravate the situation and to lead to a lethal culmination. the review of this case and the disucussion following it shows that only healthy persons should receive the parenteral typhoid vaccination. hopefully  the presentation of this material will help prevent fatalities of this type in the future.
4669,evaluation of spatial filters to create smoothed maps of health data.,spatial filters have been used as an easy and intuitive way to create smoothed disease maps. birth weight data from new york state for 1994 and 1995 are used to compare the traditional filter type of fixed geographical size with a filter size of constant or nearly constant population size. the latter are more appropriate for mapping disease in geographic areas with widely varying population density  such as new york state. issues such as the choice of population size for the filter  the scale of smoothing  the ability to detect true spatial variation and the ability to smooth over random spatial noise are evaluated and discussed.
4671,at the gates of death.,apoptosis that proceeds via the mitochondrial pathway involves mitochondrial outer membrane permeabilization (momp)  responsible for the release of cytochrome c and other proteins of the mitochondrial intermembrane space. this essential step is controlled and mediated by proteins of the bcl-2 family. the proapoptotic proteins bax and bak are required for momp  while the antiapoptotic bcl-2 proteins  including bcl-2  bcl-xl  mcl-1  and others  prevent momp. different proapoptotic bh3-only proteins act to interfere with the function of the antiapoptotic bcl-2 members and/or activate bax and bak. here  we discuss an emerging view  proposed by certo et al. in this issue of cancer cell  on how these interactions result in momp and apoptosis.
4673,a diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging study of brain tissue from patients with migraine.,objective to measure in vivo  using diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging (dt-mri) the extent of pathological damage of normal appearing brain tissue (nabt) from patients with migraine. methods dual echo and dt-mri scans of the brain were acquired from 34 patients with migraine and 17 sex and age matched healthy volunteers. mean diffusivity (md) and fractional anisotropy (fa) histograms of the nabt were obtained from all subjects and the histograms' peak heights and average nabt md and fa measured. when present  average md and fa values of t2 visible lesions were also measured. results in comparison with healthy volunteers  patients with migraine had lower md histogram peak height (p=0.02) of the nabt. no differences were found in fa histogram derived metrics between migraine patients and healthy subjects. no difference was found for any md and fa histogram derived metrics between migraine patients with and without brain mri lesions  and between patients with and without aura. conclusions this study shows that  although brain damage may extend beyond t2 weighted abnormalities in patients with migraine  the severity of these "occult" changes is mild compared with that found in other diseases associated with white matter abnormality.
4675,wedelolactone exhibits anti-fibrotic effects on human hepatic stellate cell line lx-2.,wedelolactone is a major coumarin of eclipta prostrata  which is used for preventing liver damage. however the effects of wedelolactone on hepatic fibrosis remained unexplored. the purpose of this study was to demonstrate the anti-fibrotic effects of wedelolactone on activated human hepatic stellate cell (hsc) line lx-2 and the possible underlying mechanisms by means of mtt assay  hoechst staining  as well as real-time quantitative pcr and western blot. the results showed that wedelolactone reduced the cellular viability of lx-2 in a time and dose-dependent manner. after treatment of wedelolactone  the expressions of collagen i and α-smooth muscle actin  two biomarkers of lx-2 activation  were remarkably decreased. the apoptosis of lx-2 cells was induced by wedelolactone accompanied with the decreasing expression of anti-apoptotic bcl-2 and increasing expression of pro-apoptotic bax. in addition  phosphorylated status of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (erk) and c-jun n-terminal kinase (jnk) was up-regulated  but not in p38. moreover  wedelolactone significantly repressed the level of phosphorylated inhibitor of nuclear factor κb (iκb) and p65 in nucleus in spite of tumor necrosis factor-α stimulation. in conclusion  wedelolactone could significantly inhibit the activation of lx-2 cells  the underlying mechanisms of which included inducing bcl-2 family involved apoptosis  up-regulating phosphorylated status of erk and jnk expressions  and inhibiting nuclear factor-κb (nf-κb) mediated activity. wedelolactone might present as a useful tool for the prevention and treatment of hepatic fibrosis.
4677,interferon alpha and zidovudine therapy in adult t-cell leukaemia lymphoma: response and outcome in 15 patients.,adult t-cell leukaemia lymphoma (atll) is an aggressive disease caused by the human t-lymphotropic virus 1 (htlv-i) with a short survival. responses to interferon alpha (ifn-alpha) and zidovudine (azt) have been documented but not with long-term follow-up. we treated 15 atll patients with ifn and azt. eleven patients had acute atll  two had lymphoma and two smouldering atll  with progression. the main features were: organomegaly (14)  skin lesions (10)  high white blood cell (wbc) count (11) and hypercalcaemia (9). eleven patients had previously received chemotherapy and one had received an autograft. at the time of the study  seven patients had progressive disease and eight were in partial or complete clinical remission. responses (pr) lasting 2+ to 44+ months were seen in 67%; 26% did not respond (nr) and one patient was not evaluable. hypercalcaemia predicted a poor outcome but differences were not significant. eight of the 15 patients have died 3-41 months from diagnosis. median survival for the 15 patients was 18 months. survival of the nr ranged from 4 to 20 months; six pr patients are alive 8-82 months from diagnosis. the differences in survival between nr (median: 6 months) and pr (55% of patients alive at 4 years) were statistically significant (p = 0.002). in conclusion  ifn and azt improves the outcome of atll patients and helps maintain responses.
4679,direct reprogramming of fibroblasts into neural stem cells by defined factors.,recent studies have shown that defined sets of transcription factors can directly reprogram differentiated somatic cells to a different differentiated cell type without passing through a pluripotent state  but the restricted proliferative and lineage potential of the resulting cells limits the scope of their potential applications. here we show that a combination of transcription factors (brn4/pou3f4  sox2  klf4  c-myc  plus e47/tcf3) induces mouse fibroblasts to directly acquire a neural stem cell identity-which we term as induced neural stem cells (inscs). direct reprogramming of fibroblasts into inscs is a gradual process in which the donor transcriptional program is silenced over time. inscs exhibit cell morphology  gene expression  epigenetic features  differentiation potential  and self-renewing capacity  as well as in vitro and in vivo functionality similar to those of wild-type nscs. we conclude that differentiated cells can be reprogrammed directly into specific somatic stem cell types by defined sets of specific transcription factors.
4681,novel roles for klf1 in erythropoiesis revealed by mrna-seq.,klf1 (formerly known as eklf) regulates the development of erythroid cells from bi-potent progenitor cells via the transcriptional activation of a diverse set of genes. mice lacking klf1 die in utero prior to e15 from severe anemia due to the inadequate expression of genes controlling hemoglobin production  cell membrane and cytoskeletal integrity  and the cell cycle. we have recently described the full repertoire of klf1 binding sites in vivo by performing klf1 chip-seq in primary erythroid tissue (e14.5 fetal liver). here we describe the klf1-dependent erythroid transcriptome by comparing mrna-seq from klf1(+/+) and klf1(-/-) erythroid tissue. this has revealed novel target genes not previously obtainable by traditional microarray technology  and provided novel insights into the function of klf1 as a transcriptional activator. we define a cis-regulatory module bound by klf1  gata1  tal1  and ep300 that coordinates a core set of erythroid genes. we also describe a novel set of erythroid-specific promoters that drive high-level expression of otherwise ubiquitously expressed genes in erythroid cells. our study has identified two novel lncrnas that are dynamically expressed during erythroid differentiation  and discovered a role for klf1 in directing apoptotic gene expression to drive the terminal stages of erythroid maturation.
4683,a direct role for ifn-gamma in regulation of th1 cell development.,il-12 has been identified as a major cytokine influencing the differentiation of cd4 cells to a th1 phenotype  whereas a role for ifn-gamma is controversial. we investigated the interrelationship between il-12 and ifn-gamma in promoting th1 responses using naive cd4 cells reactive with pigeon cytochrome c from tcr transgenics and memory cd4 cells derived by in vivo priming with klh. without exogenous ril-12 or rifn-gamma  primary and memory effectors induced by ag or anti-cd3 and anti-cd28 secreted variable levels of il-2 and ifn-gamma. the level of ifn-gamma secreted by effectors correlated with endogenous ifn-gamma produced in primary cultures  and anti-ifn-gamma largely inhibited the development of effectors producing ifn-gamma. with optimal tcr stimulation and costimulation  endogenous ifn-gamma  without il-12  was sufficient to elicit th1 cells via an autocrine mechanism  whereas with suboptimal stimulation  exogenous rifn-gamma or ril-12 was required for th1 development. however  ril-12 was more effective than rifn-gamma  partially because ril-12 greatly enhanced autocrine production of ifn-gamma  and optimal development of the th1 phenotype was mediated by the synergistic actions of both cytokines. thus  both ifn-gamma and il-12 can independently regulate th1 development  but because of ifn-gamma-mediated feedback  their relative contributions are determined by the conditions of t cell stimulation. the extent of differentiation to a th1 phenotype may  therefore  depend on the availability of both apc-derived il-12 and autocrine ifn-gamma consequent to the overall strength of t cell stimulation.
4685,tolerance rather than immunity protects from helicobacter pylori-induced gastric preneoplasia.,background & aims chronic infection with the bacterial pathogen helicobacter pylori causes gastric disorders  ranging from chronic gastritis to gastric adenocarcinoma. only a subset of infected persons will develop overt disease; most remains asymptomatic despite lifelong colonization. this study aims to elucidate the differential susceptibility to h pylori that is found both across and within populations. methods we have established a c57bl/6 mouse model of h pylori infection with a strain that is capable of delivering the virulence factor cytotoxin-associated gene a (caga) into host cells through the activity of a cag-pathogenicity island-encoded type iv secretion system. results mice infected at 5-6 weeks of age with caga(+)h pylori rapidly develop gastritis  gastric atrophy  epithelial hyperplasia  and metaplasia in a type iv secretion system-dependent manner. in contrast  mice infected during the neonatal period with the same strain are protected from preneoplastic lesions. their protection results from the development of h pylori-specific peripheral immunologic tolerance  which requires transforming growth factor-β signaling and is mediated by long-lived  inducible regulatory t cells  and which controls the local cd4(+) t-cell responses that trigger premalignant transformation. tolerance to h pylori develops in the neonatal period because of a biased ratio of t-regulatory to t-effector cells and is favored by prolonged low-dose exposure to antigen. conclusions using a novel caga(+)h pylori infection model  we report here that the development of tolerance to h pylori protects from gastric cancer precursor lesions. the age at initial infection may thus account for the differential susceptibility of infected persons to h pylori-associated disease manifestations.
4687,control of central and peripheral tolerance by aire.,the negative selection of self-reactive thymocytes depends on the expression of tissue-specific antigens by medullary thymic epithelial cells. the autoimmune regulator (aire) protein plays an important role in turning on these antigens  and the absence of even one aire-induced tissue-specific antigen in the thymus can lead to autoimmunity in the antigen-expressing target organ. recently  aire protein has been detected in peripheral lymphoid organs  suggesting that peripheral aire plays a complementary role here. in these peripheral sites  aire was found to regulate the expression of a group of tissue-specific antigens that is distinct from those expressed in the thymus. furthermore  transgenic antigen expression in extrathymic aire-expressing cells (etacs) can mediate deletional tolerance  but the immunological relevance of aire-dependent  endogenous tissue-specific antigens remains to be determined.
4689,elevated expression of mir-24-3p is a potentially adverse prognostic factor in colorectal adenocarcinoma.,objectives several mirnas are aberrantly expressed in cancer. mir-24-3p is involved in cancer-related cellular processes  including cell cycle control  cell growth  proliferation  and apoptosis. in this study  we examined the potential diagnostic and prognostic significance of mir-24-3p expression in colorectal adenocarcinoma. design and methods total rna was isolated from 182 colorectal adenocarcinoma specimens and 86 paired non-cancerous colorectal mucosae. after polyadenylation of 2μg total rna and reverse transcription into first-strand cdna using an oligo-dt-adapter primer  mir-24-3p expression was quantified using an in-house-developed reverse-transcription real-time quantitative pcr method  based on the sybr green chemistry. snord43 (rnu43) was used as a reference gene. results mir-24-3p levels do not significantly differ between colorectal adenocarcinoma and non-cancerous colorectal mucosae. thus  mir-24-3p expression cannot be used for diagnostic purposes. however  high mir-24-3p expression predicts poor disease-free survival (dfs) and overall survival (os) of colorectal adenocarcinoma patients. multivariate cox regression analysis confirmed that mir-24-3p overexpression is a significant predictor of relapse in colorectal adenocarcinoma and that its prognostic significance is independent of other established prognostic factors and treatment of patients. of note  mir-24-3p overexpression retains its rather unfavorable prognostic value in the subgroup of patients with advanced yet locally restricted colorectal adenocarcinoma (t3) and in those without distant metastasis (m0). moreover  mir-24-3p overexpression is a potentially unfavorable prognosticator for patients who were not treated with radiotherapy. conclusions strong expression of mir-24-3p predicts poor dfs and os of colorectal adenocarcinoma patients  independently of clinicopathological parameters that are currently used for prognosis in this human malignancy.
4691,the processing of holliday junctions by blm and wrn helicases is regulated by p53.,blm  wrn  and p53 are involved in the homologous dna recombination pathway. the dna structure-specific helicases  blm and wrn  unwind holliday junctions (hj)  an activity that could suppress inappropriate homologous recombination during dna replication. here  we show that purified  recombinant p53 binds to blm and wrn helicases and attenuates their ability to unwind synthetic hj in vitro. the p53 248w mutant reduces abilities of both to bind hj and inhibit helicase activities  whereas the p53 273h mutant loses these abilities. moreover  full-length p53 and a c-terminal polypeptide (residues 373-383) inhibit the blm and wrn helicase activities  but phosphorylation at ser(376) or ser(378) completely abolishes this inhibition. following blockage of dna replication  ser(15) phospho-p53  blm  and rad51 colocalize in nuclear foci at sites likely to contain dna replication intermediates in cells. our results are consistent with a novel mechanism for p53-mediated regulation of dna recombinational repair that involves p53 post-translational modifications and functional protein-protein interactions with blm and wrn dna helicases.
4693,familial barrett's esophagus associated with adenocarcinoma.,a family with six cases of barrett's esophagus over three generations is described. the barrett's esophagus affected only males  and there were three associated adenocarcinomas. the mechanism of inheritance is compatible with an autosomal dominant pattern with nearly complete penetrance. other case reports in the literature are compared with this familial case of barrett's esophagus with associated adenocarcinomas.
4695,use of tls parameters to model anisotropic displacements in macromolecular refinement.,an essential step in macromolecular refinement is the selection of model parameters which give as good a description of the experimental data as possible while retaining a realistic data-to-parameter ratio. this is particularly true of the choice of atomic displacement parameters  where the move from individual isotropic to individual anisotropic refinement involves a sixfold increase in the number of required displacement parameters. the number of refinement parameters can be reduced by using collective variables rather than independent atomic variables and one of the simplest examples of this is the tls parameterization for describing the translation  libration and screw-rotation displacements of a pseudo-rigid body. this article describes the implementation of the tls parameterization in the macromolecular refinement program refmac. derivatives of the residual with respect to the tls parameters are expanded in terms of the derivatives with respect to individual anisotropic u values  which in turn are calculated using a fast fourier transform technique. tls refinement is therefore fast and can be used routinely. examples of tls refinement are given for glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (gapdh) and a transcription activator gere  for both of which there is data to only 2.0 a  so that individual anisotropic refinement is not feasible. gapdh has been refined with between one and four tls groups in the asymmetric unit and gere with six tls groups. in both cases  inclusion of tls parameters gives improved refinement statistics and in particular an improvement in r and free r values of several percent. furthermore  gapdh and gere have two and six molecules in the asymmetric unit  respectively  and in each case the displacement parameters differ significantly between molecules. these differences are well accounted for by the tls parameterization  leaving residual local displacements which are very similar between molecules and to which ncs restraints can be applied.
4697,deregulated dna polymerase beta induces chromosome instability and tumorigenesis.,to reach the biological alterations that characterize cancer  the genome of tumor cells must acquire increased mutability resulting from a malfunction of a network of genome stability systems  e.g.  cell cycle arrest  dna repair  and high accuracy of dna synthesis during dna replication. numeric chromosomal imbalance  referred to as aneuploidy  is the most prevalent genetic changes recorded among many types of solid tumors. we report here that ectopic expression in cells of dna polymerase beta  an error-prone enzyme frequently over-regulated in human tumors  induces aneuploidy  an abnormal localization of the centrosome-associated gamma-tubulin protein during mitosis  a deficient mitotic checkpoint  and promotes tumorigenesis in nude immunodeficient mice. thus  we find that alteration of polymerase beta expression appears to induce major genetic changes associated with a malignant phenotype.
4699,advances in osteoclast biology: old findings and new insights from mouse models,the maintenance of adequate bone mass is dependent upon the controlled and timely removal of old  damaged bone. this complex process is performed by the highly specialized  multinucleated osteoclast. over the past 15 years  a detailed picture has emerged describing the origins  differentiation pathways and activation stages that contribute to normal osteoclast function. this information has primarily been obtained by the development and skeletal analysis of genetically modified mouse models. mice harboring mutations in specific genetic loci exhibit bone defects as a direct result of aberrations in normal osteoclast recruitment  formation or function. these findings include the identification of the rank–rankl–opg system as a primary mediator of osteoclastogenesis  the characterization of ion transport and cellular attachment mechanisms and the recognition that matrix-degrading enzymes are essential components of resorptive activity. this review focuses on the principal observations in osteoclast biology derived from genetic mouse models  and highlights emerging concepts that describe how the osteoclast is thought to contribute to the maintenance of adequate bone mass and integrity throughout life.
4701,reserves  functional  immunoregulatory  and cytogenetic properties of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells in patients with myelodysplastic syndromes.,defective hematopoiesis supporting capacity of bone marrow (bm) stroma has been implicated in the pathophysiology of myelodysplastic syndromes (mds). the aim of this study is to explore whether the bm stroma progenitors  namely the mesenchymal stem cells (mscs)  are primarily affected in mds by evaluating the reserves  the functional properties  as well as the cytogenetic characteristics  in comparison to bm hematopoietic cells  in patients with de novo mds (n = 13). the number  differentiation potential toward adipocytes/chondrocytes/osteoblasts and immunosuppressive function in terms of inhibition of mitogen-induced t-cell proliferation did not differ significantly between patient and normal (n = 20) mscs. patient mscs did not show any aberrations in the production of proinflammatory or growth-promoting cytokines and did not harbor the cytogenetic abnormalities present in hematopoietic cells. occasional patient and normal msc cultures  however  developed irrelevant chromosomal alterations (trisomies 5 and 7) with uncertain pathophysiologic significance. compared to controls  patient mscs displayed impaired proliferative and clonogenic potential through passages that might represent a nonspecific abnormality associated with the chronic inflammatory process present in patients' bm. these data suggest that bm mscs from mds patients do not belong to the abnormal clone and do not represent the main cellular source contributing to the inflammatory marrow microenvironment.
4703,attachment of the ubiquitin-related protein urm1p to the antioxidant protein ahp1p.,urm1p is a ubiquitin-related protein that serves as a posttranslational modification of other proteins. urm1p conjugation has been implicated in the budding process and in nutrient sensing. here  we have identified the first in vivo target for the urmylation pathway as the antioxidant protein ahp1p. the attachment of urm1p to ahp1p requires the e1 for the urmylation pathway  uba4p. loss of the urmylation pathway components results in sensitivity to a thiol-specific oxidant  as does loss of ahp1p  implying that urmylation has a role in an oxidative-stress response. moreover  treatment of cells with thiol-specific oxidants affects the abundance of ahp1p-urm1p conjugates. these results suggest that the conjugation of urm1p to ahp1p could regulate the function of ahp1p in antioxidant stress response in saccharomyces cerevisiae.
4705,a randomized trial of aspirin to prevent colorectal adenomas in patients with previous colorectal cancer.,background experimental studies in animals and observational studies in humans suggest that regular aspirin use may decrease the risk of colorectal adenomas  the precursors to most colorectal cancers. methods we conducted a randomized  double-blind trial to determine the effect of aspirin on the incidence of colorectal adenomas. we randomly assigned 635 patients with previous colorectal cancer to receive either 325 mg of aspirin per day or placebo. we determined the proportion of patients with adenomas  the number of recurrent adenomas  and the time to the development of adenoma between randomization and subsequent colonoscopic examinations. relative risks were adjusted for age  sex  cancer stage  the number of colonoscopic examinations  and the time to a first colonoscopy. the study was terminated early by an independent data and safety monitoring board when statistically significant results were reported during a planned interim analysis. results a total of 517 randomized patients had at least one colonoscopic examination a median of 12.8 months after randomization. one or more adenomas were found in 17 percent of patients in the aspirin group and 27 percent of patients in the placebo group (p=0.004). the mean (+/-sd) number of adenomas was lower in the aspirin group than the placebo group (0.30+/-0.87 vs. 0.49+/-0.99  p=0.003 by the wilcoxon test). the adjusted relative risk of any recurrent adenoma in the aspirin group  as compared with the placebo group  was 0.65 (95 percent confidence interval  0.46 to 0.91). the time to the detection of a first adenoma was longer in the aspirin group than in the placebo group (hazard ratio for the detection of a new polyp  0.64; 95 percent confidence interval  0.43 to 0.94; p=0.022). conclusions daily use of aspirin is associated with a significant reduction in the incidence of colorectal adenomas in patients with previous colorectal cancer.
4707,how safe are psychiatric medications after a voluntary overdose?,purpose this study assessed psychiatric medications and their potential lethality in a representative sample of suicide attempts. materials and methods during 1996-98  563 suicide attempts were studied in a general hospital in madrid (spain). medication overdose was used in 456 suicide attempts (81%). the ratio between dose taken and maximum prescription dose recommended was used to evaluate the medication toxicity. results benzodiazepines were the drugs most often used in self-poisoning (65% of overdoses)  followed by new antidepressants (11%)  tricyclic antidepressants (tcas) (10%)  and antipsychotics (8%). an overdose with any of the three latter psychiatric medications was significantly more frequent in patients prescribed those medications. the overdoses for tca were potentially lethal in 47% of the cases. however  all patients who overdosed on psychiatric medications recovered well and were discharged without any sequelae. discussion this study suggests that psychiatric medications  particularly benzodiazepines  new antidepressants and antipsychotics  are relatively safe when they are used for self-poisoning. if patients with mental illnesses are under treated  there is a clear and documented higher risk for suicide. conclusion it is better to prescribe psychiatric medications  particularly the new ones  rather than withhold them due to an exaggerated fear of a lethal overdose
4709,chronic daily headache: long-term prognosis following inpatient treatment with repetitive iv dhe.,we retrospectively studied the long-term (2-year) outcome of 50 consecutive patients admitted to our inpatient headache program because of chronic daily headache (cdh) associated with the overuse of analgesics  ergotamine  or both. they had been detoxified  given repetitive intravenous dihydroergotamine (iv dhe) and prophylactic medications as part of the program  and had become headache-free on this regimen. at the time of admission  37 of the 50 patients had transformed migraine (tm)  12 had new daily persistent headache (ndph)  and 1 had chronic tension-type headache; 29 of the patients with tm  7 of those with ndph  and the single patient with chronic tension-type headache had coexistent migraine. substances abused  alone or in combination  included: caffeine in 39 patients (av. 441 mg/d)  acetaminophen in 32 (av. 2187 mg/d)  aspirin in 24 (av. 1807 mg/d)  ibuprofen in 9 (av. 1156 mg/d)  narcotics in 7 (av. 10.1 mg morphine equivalents/d) and ergotamine in 11 (av. 2.3 mg/d). twenty patients were using preventive medication at the time of admission. follow-up evaluations were performed at 3  6  12  and 24 months after discharge. forty-three patients were analyzed at 3 months. of these  44% had an excellent or good result and 28% a fair result; 3 were overusing analgesics. at 24 months  39 patients were analyzed: 59% had a good or excellent result and 28% a fair result; 5 were overusing analgesics  4 of whom were doing poorly.(abstract truncated at 250 words)
4711,cyclic gmp-amp synthase is a cytosolic dna sensor that activates the type i interferon pathway.,the presence of dna in the cytoplasm of mammalian cells is a danger signal that triggers host immune responses such as the production of type i interferons. cytosolic dna induces interferons through the production of cyclic guanosine monophosphate-adenosine monophosphate (cyclic gmp-amp  or cgamp)  which binds to and activates the adaptor protein sting. through biochemical fractionation and quantitative mass spectrometry  we identified a cgamp synthase (cgas)  which belongs to the nucleotidyltransferase family. overexpression of cgas activated the transcription factor irf3 and induced interferon-β in a sting-dependent manner. knockdown of cgas inhibited irf3 activation and interferon-β induction by dna transfection or dna virus infection. cgas bound to dna in the cytoplasm and catalyzed cgamp synthesis. these results indicate that cgas is a cytosolic dna sensor that induces interferons by producing the second messenger cgamp.
4713,monoallelic expression and methylation of imprinted genes in human and mouse embryonic germ cell lineages.,imprinting is an epigenetic modification leading to monoallelic expression of some genes  and disrupted imprinting is believed to be a barrier to human stem cell transplantation  based on studies that suggest that epigenetic marks are unstable in mouse embryonic germ (eg) and embryonic stem (es) cells. however  stem cell imprinting has not previously been examined directly in humans. we found that three imprinted genes  tssc5  h19  and snrpn  show monoallelic expression in in vitro differentiated human eg-derived cells  and a fourth gene  igf2  shows partially relaxed imprinting at a ratio from 4:1 to 5:1  comparable to that found in normal somatic cells. in addition  we found normal methylation of an imprinting control region (icr) that regulates h19 and igf2 imprinting  suggesting that imprinting may not be a significant epigenetic barrier to human eg cell transplantation. finally  we were able to construct an in vitro mouse model of genomic imprinting  by generating eg cells from 8.5-day embryos of an interspecific cross  in which undifferentiated cells show biallelic expression and acquire preferential parental allele expression after differentiation. this model should allow experimental manipulation of epigenetic modifications of cultured eg cells that may not be possible in human stem cell studies.
4715,the immunological synapse of ctl contains a secretory domain and membrane bridges.,cytotoxic t lymphocytes (ctl) rapidly destroy their targets. here we show that although target cell death occurs within 5 min of ctl-target cell contact  an immunological synapse similar to that seen in cd4 cells rapidly forms in ctl  with a ring of adhesion proteins surrounding an inner signaling molecule domain. lytic granule secretion occurs in a separate domain within the adhesion ring  maintaining signaling protein organization during exocytosis. live and fixed cell studies show target cell plasma membrane markers are transferred to the ctl as the cells separate. electron microscopy reveals continuities forming membrane bridges between the ctl and target cell membranes  suggesting a possible mechanism for this transfer.
4717,apoptosis and chemoresistance in transgenic cancer models,multidrug resistance remains an unresolved problem in clinical oncology. over a decade ago genes encoding cellular efflux pumps were shown to confer resistance to a broad spectrum of biochemically unrelated anticancer drugs even before the compounds reached their intracellular targets. more recently it has become apparent that many drugs induce a common apoptotic program  such that mutations in this program can also produce multidrug resistance. however  a thorough evaluation of the contribution of apoptotic defects to this "postdamage" drug resistant phenotype is technically complicated  and this has led to uncertainty about the overall significance of apoptosis in therapy-induced cell death. for example  correlative analyses using patient specimens are limited by unknown background mutations in the biopsy material  and assays using cancer cell lines can be biased by unphysiological conditions. we sought to circumvent these restrictions by utilizing a tractable transgenic cancer model to examine the impact of apoptosis on treatment outcome. here we discuss potential caveats of cell culture based assays  highlight features of genetically engineered mice as potential model systems  and describe a tractable transgenic mouse model to study drug responses in a series of primary lymphomas with genetically defined lesions treated at their natural site.
4719,dose-dependent effect of statins on the incidence of acute kidney injury after cardiac surgery.,background acute kidney injury (aki) after cardiac surgery is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. methods we assessed whether statin treatment is associated with a lower incidence of postoperative aki in 2 104 consecutive patients who underwent coronary artery bypass graft or valve surgery at the minneapolis veterans administration medical center. acute kidney injury was defined as absolute increase greater than 0.3 mg/dl or relative increase greater than 50% in serum creatinine from baseline  within 48 hours after surgery or requiring postoperative hemodialysis per aki network. propensity scores were utilized to adjust for the differences between the statin and the no-statin treatment groups. all statins were converted to equivalent-dose simvastatin and divided at the median to construct high-dose (≥40 mg) and low-dose (<40 mg) statin groups. results of the 2 104 patients  1 435 (68%) were taking statins (638 high-dose) and 495 (24%) developed aki (25% high-dose vs 40% low-dose vs 35% no-statin; p = 0.014). estimated preoperative glomerular filtration rate (p = 0.003)  diabetes mellitus (p=0.02)  valve surgery with or without coronary artery bypass graft (p = 0.024)  cardiopulmonary bypass time (p = 0.001)  and intraaortic balloon pump (p = 0.055) were independent predictors of aki. after propensity adjustment statin treatment was not associated with postoperative aki (odds ratio 0.79; 95% confidence interval 0.59 to 1.06; p = 0.11 for high-dose v. no-statin). after full adjustment for all independent predictors of aki  the results did not change. statins also had no effect on the incidence of postoperative hemodialysis (0.8% high-dose vs 1.9% low-dose vs 1% no-statin; p = 0.15). conclusions statin treatment is not associated with a lower incidence of aki after cardiac surgery.
4721,periosteal bone formation--a neglected determinant of bone strength.,life forms that have low body mass can hunt for food on the undersurface of branches or along shear cliff faces quite unperturbed by gravity. for larger animals  the hunt for dinner and the struggle to avoid becoming someone else's meal require rapid movement against gravity. this need is met by the lever function of long bones  three-dimensional masterpieces of biomechanical engineering that  by their material composition and structural design  achieve the contradictory properties of stiffness and flexibility  strength and lightness.1 material stiffness results from the encrusting of the triple-helical structure of collagen type i with hydroxyapatite crystals  which confers . . .
4723,hes-1 preserves purified hematopoietic stem cells ex vivo and accumulates side population cells in vivo.,mouse long-term hematopoietic reconstituting cells exist in the c-kit+sca-1+lin- (ksl) cell population; among them  cd34(low/-) cells represent the most highly purified population of hematopoietic stem cells in the adult bone marrow. here  we demonstrate that retrovirus-mediated transduction of cd34(low/-)c-kit+sca-1+lin- (34-ksl) cells with the hes-1 gene  which encodes a basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor functioning downstream of the notch receptor  and is a key molecule for the growth phase of neural stem cells in the embryo  preserves the long-term reconstituting activity of these cells in vitro. we also show that cells derived from the hes-1-transduced 34-ksl population produce progenies characterized by negative hoechst dye staining  which defines the side population  and by cd34(low/-) profile in the bone marrow ksl population in each recipient mouse at ratios 3.5- and 7.8-fold those produced by nontransduced 34-ksl-derived competitor cells. we conclude that hes-1 preserves the long-term reconstituting hematopoietic activity of 34-ksl stem cells ex vivo. up-regulation of hes-1 protein in the 34-ksl population before unnecessary cell division  that is  without retrovirus transduction  may represent a potent approach to absolute expansion of hematopoietic stem cells.
4725,inflammasome activation by adenylate cyclase toxin directs th17 responses and protection against bordetella pertussis.,inflammasome-mediated il-1beta production is central to the innate immune defects that give rise to certain autoinflammatory diseases and may also be associated with the generation of il-17-producing cd4(+) t (th17) cells that mediate autoimmunity. however  the role of the inflammasome in driving adaptive immunity to infection has not been addressed. in this article  we demonstrate that inflammasome-mediated il-1beta plays a critical role in promoting ag-specific th17 cells and in generating protective immunity against bordetella pertussis infection. using a murine respiratory challenge model  we demonstrated that the course of b. pertussis infection was significantly exacerbated in il-1r type i-defective (il-1ri(-/-)) mice. we found that adenylate cyclase toxin (cyaa)  a key virulence factor secreted by b. pertussis  induced robust il-1beta production by dendritic cells through activation of caspase-1 and the nalp3-containing inflammasome complex. using mutant toxins  we demonstrate that cyaa-mediated activation of caspase-1 was not dependent on adenylate cyclase enzyme activity but was dependent on the pore-forming capacity of cyaa. in addition  cyaa promoted the induction of ag-specific th17 cells in wild-type but not il-1ri(-/-) mice. furthermore  the bacterial load was enhanced in il-17-defective mice. our findings demonstrate that cyaa  a virulence factor from b. pertussis  promotes innate il-1beta production via activation of the nalp3 inflammasome and  thereby  polarizes t cell responses toward the th17 subtype. in addition to its known role in subverting host immunity  our findings suggest that cyaa can promote il-1beta-mediated th17 cells  which promote clearance of the bacteria from the respiratory tract.
4727,chronic lymphocytic leukemia with t(14;19)(q32;q13) is characterized by atypical morphologic and immunophenotypic features and distinctive genetic features.,the t(14;19)(q32;q13) involving the igh@ and bcl3 loci is an infrequent cytogenetic abnormality detected in b-cell malignancies. we describe the clinicopathologic  cytogenetic  and molecular genetic characteristics of 14 cases of chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (cll/sll) with t(14;19)(q32;q13). all patients (10 men and 4 women) had lymphocytosis; 10 had lymphadenopathy. blood and bone marrow lymphocytes were predominantly small  but cytologically and immunophenotypically atypical. in all cases  t(14;19) was found in the neoplastic stem line; it was the sole abnormality in 4. ten cases showed additional cytogenetic abnormalities  including trisomy 12 in 9 and complex karyotypes in 7. fluorescence in situ hybridization demonstrated igh@/bcl3 fusion gene in all cases. in all cases  the ighv genes were unmutated  but only 7 expressed zap70. seven cases preferentially used ighv4-39. our results indicate that t(14;19)(q32;q13) identifies a subset of cll/sll with distinctive clinicopathologic and genetic features. furthermore  t(14;19) may represent an early  possibly primary  genetic event.
4729,deletion of the developmentally essential gene atr in adult mice leads to age-related phenotypes and stem cell loss.,developmental abnormalities  cancer  and premature aging each have been linked to defects in the dna damage response (ddr). mutations in the atr checkpoint regulator cause developmental defects in mice (pregastrulation lethality) and humans (seckel syndrome). here we show that eliminating atr in adult mice leads to defects in tissue homeostasis and the rapid appearance of age-related phenotypes  such as hair graying  alopecia  kyphosis  osteoporosis  thymic involution  fibrosis  and other abnormalities. histological and genetic analyses indicate that atr deletion causes acute cellular loss in tissues in which continuous cell proliferation is required for maintenance. importantly  thymic involution  alopecia  and hair graying in atr knockout mice were associated with dramatic reductions in tissue-specific stem and progenitor cells and exhaustion of tissue renewal and homeostatic capacity. in aggregate  these studies suggest that reduced regenerative capacity in adults via deletion of a developmentally essential ddr gene is sufficient to cause the premature appearance of age-related phenotypes.
4731,interplay between the dividing cell and its neighbors regulates adherens junction formation during cytokinesis in epithelial tissue.,how adherens junctions (ajs) are formed upon cell division is largely unexplored. here  we found that aj formation is coordinated with cytokinesis and relies on an interplay between the dividing cell and its neighbors. during contraction of the cytokinetic ring  the neighboring cells locally accumulate myosin ii and produce the cortical tension necessary to set the initial geometry of the daughter cell interface. however  the neighboring cell membranes impede aj formation. upon midbody formation and concomitantly to neighboring cell withdrawal  arp2/3-dependent actin polymerization oriented by the midbody maintains aj geometry and regulates aj final length and the epithelial cell arrangement upon division. we propose that cytokinesis in epithelia is a multicellular process  whereby the cooperative actions of the dividing cell and its neighbors define a two-tiered mechanism that spatially and temporally controls aj formation while maintaining tissue cohesiveness.
4733,the structure of the follistatin:activin complex reveals antagonism of both type i and type ii receptor binding.,tgf-beta ligands stimulate diverse cellular differentiation and growth responses by signaling through type i and ii receptors. ligand antagonists  such as follistatin  block signaling and are essential regulators of physiological responses. here we report the structure of activin a  a tgf-beta ligand  bound to the high-affinity antagonist follistatin. two follistatin molecules encircle activin  neutralizing the ligand by burying one-third of its residues and its receptor binding sites. previous studies have suggested that type i receptor binding would not be blocked by follistatin  but the crystal structure reveals that the follistatin n-terminal domain has an unexpected fold that mimics a universal type i receptor motif and occupies this receptor binding site. the formation of follistatin:bmp:type i receptor complexes can be explained by the stoichiometric and geometric arrangement of the activin:follistatin complex. the mode of ligand binding by follistatin has important implications for its ability to neutralize homo- and heterodimeric ligands of this growth factor family.
4735,rapid accumulation of mutations during seed-to-seed propagation of mismatch-repair-defective arabidopsis.,during the many cell divisions that precede formation of plant gametes  their apical-meristem and floral antecedents are continually exposed to endogenous and environmental mutagenic threats. although some deleterious recessive mutations may be eliminated during growth of haploid gametophytes and functionally haploid early embryos ("haplosufficiency quality-checking")  the multiplicity of plant genome-maintenance systems suggests aggressive quality control during prior diploid growth. to test in arabidopsis a hypothesis that prior mismatch repair (mmr) is paramount in defense of plant genetic fidelity  we propagated in parallel 36 mmr-defective (atmsh2-1) and 36 wild-type lines. the atmsh2-1 lines rapidly accumulated a wide variety of mutations: fifth-generation (g5) plants showed abnormalities in morphology and development  fertility  germination efficiency  seed/silique development  and seed set. only two atmsh2-1  but all 36 wild-type lines  appeared normal at g5. analyses of insertion/deletion mutation at six repeat-sequence (microsatellite) loci showed each atmsh2-1 line to have evolved its own "fingerprint " the results of as many as 10 microsatellite mutations in a single line. thus  mmr during diploid growth is essential for plant genomic integrity.
4737,temporal segregation of 4-1bb versus cd28-mediated costimulation: 4-1bb ligand influences t cell numbers late in the primary response and regulates the size of the t cell memory response following influenza infection.,in this report  we demonstrate that cd28(-/-) mice are severely impaired in the initial expansion of d(b)/np366-374-specific cd8 t cells in response to influenza virus infection  whereas 4-1bb ligand (4-1bbl)(-/-) mice show no defect in primary t cell expansion to influenza virus. in contrast  4-1bbl(-/-) mice show a decrease in d(b)/np366-374-specific t cells late in the primary response. upon secondary challenge with influenza virus  4-1bbl(-/-) mice show a decrease in the number of d(b)/np366-374-specific t cells compared to wild-type mice such that the level of the cd8 t cell expansion during the in vivo secondary response is reduced to the level of a primary response  with concomitant reduction of ctl effector function. in contrast  ab responses  as well as secondary cd4 t cell responses  to influenza are unaffected by 4-1bbl deficiency. thus  cd28 is critical for initial t cell expansion  whereas 4-1bb/4-1bbl signaling affects t cell numbers much later in the response and is essential for the survival and/or responsiveness of the memory cd8 t cell pool.
4739,silibinin inhibits the invasion of il-6-stimulated colon cancer cells via selective jnk/ap-1/mmp-2 modulation in vitro.,silibinin is a flavonoid with antihepatotoxic properties and pleiotropic anticancer capabilities. this study investigated silibinin inhibition of cell invasion by down-regulating matrix metalloproteinase-2 (mmp-2) expression  via attenuation of activator protein-1 (ap-1) in il-6-stimulated lovo colon cancer cells. western blot data showed that the expression of mmp-2 protein was reduced 1.6- or 1.7-fold over the control by treatment with silibinin or jnk inhibitor in the models. similar results were revealed in zymography and confocal microscopy. pretreatment with silibinin also abolished the binding activity of ap-1 and mmp-2 promoter activity via ap-1 binding  as observed by emsa and luciferase assay. finally  a [(3)h]-thymidine incorporation proliferation assay and cell migration assay demonstrated that silibinin inhibited il-6-stimulated lovo cell proliferation and invasion. taken together  these data indicated that silibinin inhibits lovo cell invasion with the reduction of mmp-2 presentation by attenuating ap-1 binding activity  suggesting a novel antimetastatic application for silibinin in colon cancer chemoprevention.
4741,expression of green fluorescent protein in the ureteric bud of transgenic mice: a new tool for the analysis of ureteric bud morphogenesis.,the growth and branching of the ureteric bud is a complex process that is ultimately responsible for the organization of the collecting duct system as well as the number of nephrons in the metanephric kidney. while the genes involved in the regulation of this process have begun to be elucidated  our understanding of the cellular and molecular basis of ureteric bud morphogenesis remains rudimentary. furthermore  the timing and sequence of branching and elongation that gives rise to the collecting system of the kidney can only be inferred from retrospective staining or microdissection of fixed preparations. to aid in the investigation of these issues  we developed strains of transgenic mice in which a green fluorescent protein (gfp) is expressed in the ureteric bud under the control of the hoxb7 promoter. in these mice  gfp is expressed in every branch of the ureteric bud throughout renal development  and in its derivative epithelia in the adult kidney. as gfp fluorescence can be easily visualized in living tissue  this allows the dynamic pattern of ureteric bud growth and branching to be followed over several days when the kidneys are cultured in vitro. using confocal microscopy  branching of the ureteric bud in all three dimensions can be analyzed. these mice represent an extremely powerful tool to characterize the normal patterns of ureteric bud morphogenesis and to investigate the response of the bud to growth factors  matrix elements  and other agents that regulate its growth and branching.
4743,the sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor agonist fty720 modulates dendritic cell trafficking in vivo.,the pro-drug fty720 is undergoing phase iii clinical trials for prevention of allograft rejection. after phosphorylation  fty720 targets the g protein-coupled-sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 1 (s1pr1) on lymphocytes  thereby inhibiting their egress from lymphoid organs and their recirculation to inflammatory sites. potential effects on dendritic cell (dc) trafficking have not been evaluated. here  we demonstrate the expression of all five s1pr subtypes (s1pr1-5) by murine dcs. administration of fty720 to c57bl/10 mice markedly reduced circulating t and b lymphocytes within 24 h  but not blood-borne dcs  which were enhanced significantly for up to 96 h  while dcs in lymph nodes and spleen were reduced. numbers of adoptively transferred  fluorochrome-labeled syngeneic or allogeneic dcs in blood were increased significantly in fty720-treated animals  while donor-derived dcs and allostimulatory activity for host naïve t cells within the spleen were reduced. administration of the selective s1pr1 agonist sew2871 significantly enhanced circulating dc numbers. flow analysis revealed that cd11b  cd31/pecam-1  cd54/icam-1 and ccr7 expression on blood-borne dcs was downregulated following fty720 administration. transendothelial migration of fty720-p-treated immature dcs to the ccr7 ligand ccl19 was reduced. these novel data suggest that modulation of dc trafficking by fty720 may contribute to its immunosuppressive effects.
4745,the combination of exercise and respiratory training improves respiratory muscle function in pulmonary hypertension,increased dyspnea and reduced exercise capacity in pulmonary arterial hypertension (pah) can be partly attributed to impaired respiratory muscle function. this prospective study was designed to assess the impact of exercise and respiratory training on respiratory muscle strength and 6-min walking distance (6mwd) in pah patients. patients with invasively confirmed pah underwent 3 weeks of in-hospital exercise and respiratory training  which was continued at home for another 12 weeks. medication remained constant during the study period. blinded observers assessed efficacy parameters at baseline (i) and after 3 (ii) and 15 weeks (iii). respiratory muscle function was assessed by twitch mouth pressure (twpmo) during nonvolitional supramaximal magnetic phrenic nerve stimulation. seven pah patients (4 women; mean pulmonary artery pressure 45 ± 11 mmhg  median who functional class 3.1 ± 0.4  idiopathic/associated pah n = 5/2) were included. the training program was feasible and well tolerated by all patients with excellent compliance. twpmo was i: 0.86 ± 0.37 kpa  ii: 1.04 ± 0.29 kpa  and iii: 1.27 ± 0.44 kpa  respectively. 6mwd was i: 417 ± 51 m  ii: 509 ± 39 m  and iii: 498 ± 39 m  respectively. both twpmo (+0.41 ± 0.34 kpa  +56 ± 39 %) and 6mwd (+81 ± 30 m  +20 ± 9 %) increased significantly in the period between baseline and the final assessment (pairwise comparison: p = 0.012/<0.001; rm-anova considering i  ii  iii: p = 0.037/<0.001). exercise and respiratory training as an adjunct to medical therapy may be effective in patients with pah to improve respiratory muscle strength and exercise capacity. future  randomized  controlled trials should be carried out to further investigate these findings.
4747,somatic and germline diversification of a putative immunoreceptor within one phylum: dscam in arthropods.,arthropod dscam  the homologue of the human down syndrome cell adhesion molecule  is a receptor used by the nervous and immune systems. unlike in vertebrates  evolutionary pressure has selected and maintained a vast dscam diversity of isoforms  known to specifying neuronal identity during the nervous system differentiation. this chapter examines the different modes of dscam diversification in the context of arthropods' evolution and that of their immune system  where its role is controversial. in the single dscam gene of insects and crustaceans  mutually exclusive alternative splicing affects three clusters of duplicated exons encoding the variable parts of the receptor. the dscam gene produces over 10 000 isoforms. in the more basal arthropods such as centipedes  dscam diversity results from a combination of many germline genes (over 80) with  in about half of those  the possibility of alternative splicing affecting only one exon cluster. in the even more basal arthropods  such as chelicerates  no splicing possibility is detected  but there exist dozens of germline dscam genes. compared to controlling the expression of multiple germline genes  the somatic mutually alternative splicing within a single gene may offer a simplified way of expressing a large dscam repertoire. expressed by hemocytes  dscam is considered a phagocytic receptor but is also encountered in solution. more information is necessary about its binding to pathogens  its role in phagocytosis  its possible role in specifying hemocyte identity  its kinetics of expression  and the regulation of its rna splicing to understand how its diversity is linked to immunity.
4749,subcellular steroid/nuclear receptor dynamics.,steroid hormones  thyroid hormones  retinoic acids  and vitamin d bind to their receptors  which are now called steroid/nuclear receptors  and liganded receptors translocate either intracellularly or intranuclearly and form large protein complexes with cofactors to induce or repress gene transcription. therefore  steroid/nuclear receptors are ligand-dependent transcription factors. with the advent of green fluorescent protein (gfp) and its color variants  the subcellular distribution of many steroid/nuclear receptors has been found to be much more dynamic than previously thought  with some of the receptors shuttling between the cytoplasm and nucleus. steroid/nuclear receptors can be divided into three categories based on their unliganded distribution: those that are primarily in the nucleus  those in the cytoplasm  and those with mixed cytoplasmic and nuclear distributions. however  in all cases  the addition of a ligand leads to almost complete nuclear translocation of the receptors. hormonal stimulation induces intranuclear receptor distribution from a homogeneous pattern to a heterogeneous dot-like image. ligand binding to steroid/nuclear receptors leads to the recruitment of many proteins including cofactors to provoke the redistribution of receptor complexes in the nucleus. this focal organization could involve more complex events than simple dna binding sites for transcription. protein activities and interactions of steroid/nuclear receptors can be imaged and localized in a single cell.
4751,different response of human glioma tumor-initiating cells to epidermal growth factor receptor kinase inhibitors.,because a subpopulation of cancer stem cells (tumor-initiating cells  tics) is believed to be responsible for the development  progression  and recurrence of many tumors  we evaluated the in vitro sensitivity of human glioma tics to epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) kinase inhibitors (erlotinib and gefitinib) and possible molecular determinants for their effects. cells isolated from seven glioblastomas (gbm 1-7) and grown using neural stem cell permissive conditions were characterized for in vivo tumorigenicity  expression of tumor stem cell markers (cd133  nestin)  and multilineage differentiation properties  confirming that these cultures are enriched in tics. tic cultures were challenged with increasing concentrations of erlotinib and gefitinib  and their survival was evaluated after 1-4 days. in most cases  a time- and concentration-dependent cell death was observed  although gbm 2 was completely insensitive to both drugs  and gbm 7 was responsive only to the highest concentrations tested. using a radioligand binding assay  we show that all gbm tics express egfr. erlotinib and gefitinib inhibited egfr and erk1/2 phosphorylation/activation in all gbms  irrespective of the antiproliferative response observed. however  under basal conditions gbm 2 showed a high akt phosphorylation that was completely insensitive to both drugs  whereas gbm 7 was completely insensitive to gefitinib  and akt inactivation occurred only for the highest erlotinib concentration tested  showing a precise relationship with the antiproliferative effects of the drug. interestingly  in gbm 2  phosphatase and tensin homolog expression was significantly down-regulated  possibly accounting for the insensitivity to the drugs. in conclusion  glioma tics are responsive to anti-egfr drugs  but phosphatase and tensin homolog expression and akt inhibition seem to be necessary for such effect.
4753,periodic screening for breast cancer: the hip randomized controlled trial. health insurance plan.,this paper summarizes the findings of the first breast cancer screening trial  which was initiated in december 1963 to explore the efficacy of screening. women aged 40-64 years were selected from enrollees in the health insurance plan (hip) of greater new york and were randomly assigned to study and control groups. study group women were invited for screening  an initial examination  and three annual reexaminations. screening consisted of film mammography (cephalocaudal and lateral views of each breast) and clinical examination of breasts. breast cancer and mortality from breast cancer were examined by treatment group (study vs. control) and by entry-age subgroup. by the end of 18 years from entry  the study group had about a 25% lower breast cancer mortality among women aged 40-49 and 50-59 at time of entry than did the control group. however  to a large extent the difference among the 40-49-year-olds occurred in the subgroup with breast cancer diagnosed after these women had passed their 50th birthday  and utility of screening women in their forties is questionable.
4755,structural overview of the nuclear receptor superfamily: insights into physiology and therapeutics.,as ligand-regulated transcription factors  the nuclear hormone receptors are nearly ideal drug targets  with internal pockets that bind to hydrophobic  drug-like molecules and well-characterized ligand-induced conformational changes that recruit transcriptional coregulators to promoter elements. yet  due to the multitude of genes under the control of a single receptor  the major challenge has been the identification of ligands with gene-selective actions  impacting disease outcomes through a narrow subset of target genes and not across their entire gene-regulatory repertoire. here  we summarize the concepts and work to date underlying the development of steroidal and nonsteroidal receptor ligands  including the use of crystal structures  high-throughput screens  and rational design approaches for finding useful therapeutic molecules. difficulties in finding selective receptor modulators require a more complete understanding of receptor interdomain communications  posttranslational modifications  and receptor-protein interactions that could be exploited for target gene selectivity.
4757,low-grade serous ovarian cancer: a unique disease.,low-grade serous carcinomas represent approximately 10% of all serous ovarian carcinomas. a growing body of research has demonstrated several important differences between the clinical and molecular characteristics of these tumors and those of high-grade serous ovarian carcinomas. patients with low-grade serous ovarian tumors are diagnosed at a younger age  have a longer overall survival  and have lower response rates to conventional chemotherapy. in addition  low-grade serous ovarian carcinomas have pathologic and molecular characteristics distinct from high-grade serous carcinomas  yet similar to serous tumors of low malignant potential. this suggests a common pathogenesis and a continuum of disease from serous tumors of low malignant potential to low-grade serous carcinomas. further study  focusing specifically on low-grade serous carcinomas  is needed to determine the role of other chemotherapeutic agents  hormonal therapy  or targeted biologic agents in the treatment of this disease.
4759,effects of exercise training on health status in patients with chronic heart failure: hf-action randomized controlled trial.,context findings from previous studies of the effects of exercise training on patient-reported health status have been inconsistent. objective to test the effects of exercise training on health status among patients with heart failure. design  setting  and patients multicenter  randomized controlled trial among 2331 medically stable outpatients with heart failure with left ventricular ejection fraction of 35% or less. patients were randomized from april 2003 through february 2007. interventions usual care plus aerobic exercise training (n = 1172)  consisting of 36 supervised sessions followed by home-based training  vs usual care alone (n = 1159). randomization was stratified by heart failure etiology  which was a covariate in all models. main outcome measures kansas city cardiomyopathy questionnaire (kccq) overall summary scale and key subscales at baseline  every 3 months for 12 months  and annually thereafter for up to 4 years. the kccq is scored from 0 to 100 with higher scores corresponding to better health status. treatment group effects were estimated using linear mixed models according to the intention-to-treat principle. results median follow-up was 2.5 years. at 3 months  usual care plus exercise training led to greater improvement in the kccq overall summary score (mean  5.21; 95% confidence interval  4.42 to 6.00) compared with usual care alone (3.28; 95% confidence interval  2.48 to 4.09). the additional 1.93-point increase (95% confidence interval  0.84 to 3.01) in the exercise training group was statistically significant (p < .001). after 3 months  there were no further significant changes in kccq score for either group (p = .85 for the difference between slopes)  resulting in a sustained  greater improvement overall for the exercise group (p < .001). results were similar on the kccq subscales  and no subgroup interactions were detected. conclusions exercise training conferred modest but statistically significant improvements in self-reported health status compared with usual care without training. improvements occurred early and persisted over time. trial registration clinicaltrials.gov identifier: nct00047437.
4761,smallest angiosperm genomes found in lentibulariaceae  with chromosomes of bacterial size.,nuclear holoploid genome sizes (c-values) have been estimated to vary about 800-fold in angiosperms  with the smallest established 1c-value of 157 mbp recorded in arabidopsis thaliana. in the highly specialized carnivorous family lentibulariaceae now three taxa have been found that exhibit significantly lower values: genlisea margaretae with 63 mbp  g. aurea with 64 mbp  and utricularia gibba with 88 mbp. the smallest mitotic anaphase chromatids in g. aurea have 2.1 mbp and are thus of bacterial size (nb: e. coli has ca. 4 mbp). several utricularia species range somewhat lower than a. thaliana or are similar in genome size. the highest 1c-value known from species of lentibulariaceae was found in genlisea hispidula with 1510 mbp  and results in about 24-fold variation for genlisea and the lentibulariaceae. taking into account these new measurements  genome size variation in angiosperms is now almost 2000-fold. genlisea and utricularia are plants with terminal positions in the phylogeny of the eudicots  so that the findings are relevant for the understanding of genome miniaturization. moreover  the genlisea-utricularia clade exhibits one of the highest mutational rates in several genomic regions in angiosperms  what may be linked to specialized patterns of genome evolution. ultrasmall genomes have not been found in pinguicula  which is the sister group of the genlisea-utricularia clade  and which does not show accelerated mutational rates. c-values in pinguicula varied only 1.7-fold from 487 to 829 mbp.
4763,phd3-dependent hydroxylation of hclk2 promotes the dna damage response.,the dna damage response (ddr) is a complex regulatory network that is critical for maintaining genome integrity. posttranslational modifications are widely used to ensure strict spatiotemporal control of signal flow  but how the ddr responds to environmental cues  such as changes in ambient oxygen tension  remains poorly understood. we found that an essential component of the atr/chk1 signaling pathway  the human homolog of the caenorhabditis elegans biological clock protein clk-2 (hclk2)  associated with and was hydroxylated by prolyl hydroxylase domain protein 3 (phd3). hclk2 hydroxylation was necessary for its interaction with atr and the subsequent activation of atr/chk1/p53. inhibiting phd3  either with the pan-hydroxylase inhibitor dimethyloxaloylglycine (dmog) or through hypoxia  prevented activation of the atr/chk1/p53 pathway and decreased apoptosis induced by dna damage. consistent with these observations  we found that mice lacking phd3 were resistant to the effects of ionizing radiation and had decreased thymic apoptosis  a biomarker of genomic integrity. our identification of hclk2 as a substrate of phd3 reveals the mechanism through which hypoxia inhibits the ddr  suggesting hydroxylation of hclk2 is a potential therapeutic target for regulating the atr/chk1/p53 pathway.
4765,genotyping of thalassemia in microcytic hypochromic anemia patients from southwest region of iran,objective: to evaluate the frequency of α -gene  s-gene  and hemoglobin variant numbers in subjects with microcytic hypochromic anemia. methodology: in total out of 850  340 subjects with microcytic hypochromic anemia [mcv<80fl; mch<27pg] from southwest part of iran  were studied in research center of thalassemia and hemoglobinopathies (rcth) which is the only center working on hematology and oncology in southwest (khuzestan) region of iran. these include 325 individuals: 171 with beta-thalassemia trait  88 with alpha-thalassemia trait  13 with thalassemia major  11 with hemoglobin variants (hbs  hbc  and hbd punjab ) and 42 with iron-deficiency anemia. the rest 15 patients diagnosed with no definite etiology. results: genotyping for -α 3.7   -α 4.2   – α pa   - α 5nt and - - med was done with gap-pcr. the overall frequency of - α 3.7 deletion in 325 individuals is 20%. genotyping for 23 most known s-gene mutations was done with direct mutation analysis by amplification refractory mutation system (arms). the most frequent mutations were cd 36/37  ivs ii-i  and ivs i-110 with 9.7%  11.7%  and 3.5% respected frequencies in 340 patients. there was statistically significant difference between beta-thalassemia trait and beta-thalassemia major in case of mcv (p- value = 0.25) and mch (p–value =0.23) indices  and also mch index between beta-thalassemia trait and hb variants (p-value = 0.04). conclusion: the α -gene and s-gene mutation is quite common in the southwest part of iran. molecular genotyping of α -thalassemia and s-thalassemia help to diagnose unexplained microcytosis  and thus prevent unnecessary iron supplementation.
4767,preoperative predictors of weight loss following bariatric surgery: systematic review,obesity affects 32% of adults in the usa. surgery generates substantial weight loss  but 20–30% fails to achieve successful weight loss. our objective was to identify preoperative psychosocial factors associated with weight loss following bariatric surgery. we performed a literature search of pubmed® and the cochrane database of reviews of effectiveness between 1988 and april 2010. articles were screened for bariatric surgery and weight loss if they included a preoperative predictor of weight loss: body mass index (bmi)  preoperative weight loss  eating disorders  or psychiatric disorder/substance abuse. one thousand seven titles were reviewed  534 articles screened  and 115 included in the review. factors that may be positively associated with weight loss after surgery include mandatory preoperative weight loss (7 of 14 studies with positive association). factors that may be negatively associated with weight loss include preoperative bmi (37 out of 62 studies with negative association)  super-obesity (24 out of 33 studies)  and personality disorders (7 out of 14 studies). meta-analysis revealed a decrease of 10.1% excess weight loss (ewl) for super-obese patients (95% confidence interval (ci) [3.7–16.5%])  though there was significant heterogeneity in the meta-analysis  and an increase of 5.9% ewl for patients with binge eating at 12 months after surgery (95% ci [1.9–9.8%]). further studies are necessary to investigate whether preoperative factors can predict a clinically meaningful difference in weight loss after bariatric surgery. the identification of predictive factors may improve patient selection and help develop interventions targeting specific needs of patients.
4769,a bird's-eye view of sex chromosome dosage compensation.,intensive study of a few genetically tractable species with xx/xy sex chromosomes has produced generalizations about the process of sex chromosome dosage compensation that do not fare well when applied to zz/zw sex chromosome systems  such as those in birds. the inherent sexual imbalance in dose of sex chromosome genes has led to the evolution of sex-chromosome-wide mechanisms for balancing gene dosage between the sexes and relative to autosomal genes. recent advances in our knowledge of avian genomes have led to a reexamination of sex-specific dosage compensation (ssdc) in birds  which is less effective than in known xx/xy systems. insights about the mechanisms of ssdc in birds also suggest similarities to and differences from those in xx/xy species. birds are thus offering new opportunities for studying dosage compensation in a zz/zw system  which should shed light on the evolution of ssdc more broadly.
4771,restless legs syndrome and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder: a review of the literature.,study objective to review evidence on the association between restless legs syndrome (rls) and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (adhd)  to discuss the hypothetical mechanisms underlying this association  and to consider the potential interest for common pharmacologic treatments of rls and adhd when co-occurring. method a pubmed search. results in clinical samples  up to 44% of subjects with adhd have been found to have rls or rls symptoms  and up to 26% of subjects with rls have been found to have adhd or adhd symptoms. several mechanisms may explain this association. sleep disruption associated with rls might lead to inattentiveness  moodiness  and paradoxical overactivity. diurnal manifestations of rls  such as restlessness and inattention  might mimic adhd symptoms. alternatively  rls might be comorbid with idiopathic adhd. subjects with rls and a subset of subjects with adhd might share a common dopamine dysfunction. limited evidence suggests that some dopaminergic agents  such as levodopa/carbidopa  pergolide  and ropinirole  may be effective in children with rls associated with adhd symptoms. conclusions although still limited  evidence from clinical studies demonstrates an association between rls and adhd or adhd symptoms. further clinical studies using standard criteria and procedures are needed to better estimate the degree of association. epidemiologic studies are required to assess the relationship between adhd and rls symptoms in nonclinical samples. further investigations should address the mechanisms underlying the relationship between rls and adhd. several dopaminergic agents seem to be promising treatment for rls associated with adhd symptoms. to date  however  the absence of randomized and blinded controlled studies does not allow evidence-based recommendations.
4773,the multi-zinc finger protein znf217 contacts dna through a two-finger domain.,classical c2h2 zinc finger proteins are among the most abundant transcription factors found in eukaryotes  and the mechanisms through which they recognize their target genes have been extensively investigated. in general  a tandem array of three fingers separated by characteristic tgerp links is required for sequence-specific dna recognition. nevertheless  a significant number of zinc finger proteins do not contain a hallmark three-finger array of this type  raising the question of whether and how they contact dna. we have examined the multi-finger protein znf217  which contains eight classical zinc fingers. znf217 is implicated as an oncogene and in repressing the e-cadherin gene. we show that two of its zinc fingers  6 and 7  can mediate contacts with dna. we examine its putative recognition site in the e-cadherin promoter and demonstrate that this is a suboptimal site. nmr analysis and mutagenesis is used to define the dna binding surface of znf217  and we examine the specificity of the dna binding activity using fluorescence anisotropy titrations. finally  sequence analysis reveals that a variety of multi-finger proteins also contain two-finger units  and our data support the idea that these may constitute a distinct subclass of dna recognition motif.
4775,ria1p (ynl163c)  a protein similar to elongation factors 2  is involved in the biogenesis of the 60s subunit of the ribosome in saccharomyces cerevisiae,ria1 (ynl163c) is a quasi-essential gene that encodes a protein with strong similarities to elongation factors 2. small c-terminal deletions in the protein lead to a severe growth defect. in the case of a 22-residue c-terminal deletion this can be suppressed by intragenic mutations in the ria1 gene or dominant extragenic mutations in tif6  which is thought to be involved in the biogenesis of the 60s subunit of the ribosome. the dominant tif6 alleles can also suppress the phenotype associated with a complete deletion of the ria1 gene. depletion of ria1p has a dramatic effect on the polysome profile: there is a severe reduction in the level of the 80s monosomes  an imbalance in the 40s/60s ratio  and halfmers appear. dissociation of the monosomes and polysomes in the ria1p depletion mutant revealed a specific reduction in the amount of 60s subunits. localization experiments with ha-tagged derivatives of ria1p did not detect any stable association of ria1p with ribosome subunits  80s monosomes or polysomes. cell fractionation experiments show that ria1p is found in both the cytoplasmic fraction and the nuclear fraction. taken together  these data suggest that ria1p is involved in the biogenesis of the 60s subunit of the ribosome.
4777,human placental lactogen and unconjugated estriol concentrations in twin pregnancy: monitoring of fetal development in intrauterine growth retardation and single intrauterine fetal death.,human placental lactogen and unconjugated estriol concentrations in maternal serum were evaluated in 100 uneventful twin pregnancies  and these values were compared with those observed in 16 twin pregnancies associated with intrauterine growth retardation or single intrauterine fetal death. in pregnancies associated with intrauterine growth retardation (n = 8)  human placental lactogen levels were at the lower limit of normal range for singleton pregnancies  whereas estriol levels were normal in most cases. when one of the fetuses had died before week 33 of pregnancy (n = 5)  both human placental lactogen and estriol levels were low and they were almost at the levels in singleton pregnancy. when intrauterine fetal death occurred after week 36 of pregnancy (n = 3)  both hormone levels remained normal until term. thus human placental lactogen rather than estriol is a good indicator of intrauterine growth retardation in twin pregnancy. both human placental lactogen and estriol are useful for the monitoring of the surviving fetus in the case of single intrauterine fetal death.
4779,cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase isozymes expressed in mouse skeletal muscle.,to understand changes in cyclic nucleotide metabolism in muscle disease states  the expression of phosphodiesterase (pde) isozymes in normal mouse leg muscle was examined. four subcellular fractions were generated by differential centrifugation at 10 000 x g and 100 000 x g. camp pde activity was found predominately in the soluble fractions  while cgmp pde activity was more evenly distributed amongst soluble and particulate fractions. pharmacological inhibitors demonstrate that pde4 represents the major camp hydrolyzing activity and pde2 represents the major cgmp hydrolyzing activity in mouse leg muscle. pde1 is expressed at low levels  while pde3 and pde5 are intermediate. between 20 and 40% of total pde activity remained in the presence of inhibitors for pde1-pde5  indicating that other pde families contribute to the total pde pool. reverse-transcription pcr with family-specific primers showed expression of mrna for pde7-pde9  supporting this conclusion. total pde activity was found to be elevated in tissue extracts from a mouse model of duchenne's muscular dystrophy.
4781,an antimicrobial protein of the gut symbiont bacteroides fragilis with a macpf domain of host immune proteins.,bacteroidales are the most abundant gram-negative bacteria of the human intestinal microbiota comprising more than half of the bacteria in many individuals. some of the factors that these bacteria use to establish and maintain themselves in this ecosystem are beginning to be identified. however  ecological competition  especially interference competition where one organism directly harms another  is largely unexplored. to begin to understand the relevance of this ecological principle as it applies to these abundant gut bacteria and factors that may promote such competition  we screened bacteroides fragilis for the production of antimicrobial molecules. we found that the production of extracellularly secreted antimicrobial molecules is widespread in this species. the first identified molecule  described in this manuscript  contains a membrane attack complex/perforin (macpf) domain present in host immune molecules that kill bacteria and virally infected cells by pore formation  and mutations affecting key residues of this domain abrogated its activity. this antimicrobial molecule  termed bsap-1  is secreted from the cell in outer membrane vesicles and no additional proteins are required for its secretion  processing or immunity of the producing cell. this study provides the first insight into secreted molecules that promote competitive interference among bacteroidales strains of the human gut.
4783,adoptive t cell transfer for cancer immunotherapy in the era of synthetic biology.,adoptive t cell transfer for cancer and chronic infection is an emerging field that shows promise in recent trials. synthetic-biology-based engineering of t lymphocytes to express high-affinity antigen receptors can overcome immune tolerance  which has been a major limitation of immunotherapy-based strategies. advances in cell engineering and culture approaches to enable efficient gene transfer and ex vivo cell expansion have facilitated broader evaluation of this technology  moving adoptive transfer from a "boutique" application to the cusp of a mainstream technology. the major challenge currently facing the field is to increase the specificity of engineered t cells for tumors  because targeting shared antigens has the potential to lead to on-target off-tumor toxicities  as observed in recent trials. as the field of adoptive transfer technology matures  the major engineering challenge is the development of automated cell culture systems  so that the approach can extend beyond specialized academic centers and become widely available.
4785,immunoproteasome and lmp2 polymorphism in aged and alzheimer's disease brains.,in this study  we investigated the presence and role of immunoproteasome and its lmp2 subunit polymorphism at codon 60 in alzheimer's disease (ad). immunoproteasome was present in brain areas such as hippocampus and cerebellum and localized in neurons  astrocytes and endothelial cells. a higher expression of immunoproteasome was found in brain of ad patients than in brain of non-demented elderly  being its expression in young brain negligible or absent. furthermore  ad affected regions showed a partial decrease in proteasome trypsin-like activity. the study of lmp2 polymorphism (r/h) showed that it does not influence lmp2 expression (neither the mrna nor mature protein) in brain tissue. however  control brain areas of ad patients carrying the rr genotype showed an increased proteasome activity in comparison with rh carriers. to test whether this effect of the genotype might be related to ad onset we performed a genetic study  which allowed us to exclude an association of lmp2 codon 60 polymorphism with ad onset  despite its influence on the proteasome activity in human brain.
4787,aggregation of vascular risk factors and risk of incident alzheimer disease.,background the prevalence of alzheimer disease (ad) is increasing in the elderly  and vascular risk factors may increase its risk. objective to explore the association of the aggregation of vascular risk factors with ad. methods the authors followed 1 138 individuals without dementia at baseline (mean age 76.2) for a mean of 5.5 years. the presence of vascular risk factors was related to incident possible and probable ad. results four risk factors (diabetes  hypertension  heart disease  and current smoking) were associated with a higher risk of ad (p < 0.10) when analyzed individually. the risk of ad increased with the number of risk factors (diabetes + hypertension + heart disease + current smoking). the adjusted hazards ratio of probable ad for the presence of three or more risk factors was 3.4 (95% ci: 1.8  6.3; p for trend < 0.0001) compared with no risk factors. diabetes and current smoking were the strongest risk factors in isolation or in clusters  but hypertension and heart disease were also related to a higher risk of ad when clustered with diabetes  smoking  or each other. conclusions the risk of alzheimer disease (ad) increased with the number of vascular risk factors. diabetes and current smoking were the strongest risk factors  but clusters including hypertension and heart disease also increased the risk of ad. these associations are unlikely to be explained by misclassification of the outcome  given strong associations when only probable ad is considered.
4789,glucocorticoid with cyclophosphamide for paraquat-induced lung fibrosis.,background paraquat is an effective and widely used herbicide but is also a lethal poison. in many developing countries paraquat is widely available and inexpensive  making poisoning prevention difficult. however most of the people who become poisoned from paraquat have taken it as a means of suicide. standard treatment for paraquat poisoning both prevents further absorption and reduces the load of paraquat in the blood through haemoperfusion or haemodialysis. the effectiveness of standard treatments is extremely limited. the immune system plays an important role in exacerbating paraquat-induced lung fibrosis. immunosuppressive treatment using glucocorticoid and cyclophosphamide in combination is being developed and studied. objectives to assess the effects of glucocorticoid with cyclophosphamide on mortality in patients with paraquat-induced lung fibrosis. search methods to identify randomised controlled trials (rcts) on this topic  we searched the cochrane injuries group's specialised register (searched 1 february 2012)  the cochrane central register of controlled trials (central) (the cochrane library 2012  issue 1)  medline (ovid sp) (1946 january week 3 2012)  embase (ovid sp) (1947 to week 4 2012)  isi web of science: science citation index expanded (sci-expanded) (1970 to january 2012)  isi web of science: conference proceedings citation index - science (cpci-s) (1990 to january 2012)  chinese biomedical literature and retrieval system (cbm) (1978 to april 2012)  chinese medical current contents (cmcc) (1995 to april 2012)  and chinese medical academic conference (cmac) (1994 to april 2012). searches were completed on english language databases on 1 february 2012 and on chinese language databases on 12 april 2012. selection criteria rcts were included in this review. all patients were to receive standard care  plus the intervention or control. the intervention was glucocorticoid with cyclophosphamide in combination versus a control of a placebo  standard care alone or any other therapy in addition to standard care. data collection and analysis the mortality risk ratio (rr) and 95% confidence interval (ci) was calculated for each study on an intention-to-treat basis. data for all-cause mortality at final follow-up were summarised in a meta-analysis using a fixed-effect model. main results this systematic review includes three trials with a combined total of 164 participants who had moderate to severe paraquat poisoning. patients who received glucocorticoid with cyclophosphamide in addition to standard care had a lower risk of death at final follow-up than those receiving standard care only (rr 0.72; 95% ci 0.59 to 0.89). authors' conclusions based on the findings of three small rcts of moderate to severely poisoned patients  glucocorticoid with cyclophosphamide in addition to standard care may be a beneficial treatment for patients with paraquat-induced lung fibrosis. to enable further study of the effects of glucocorticoid with cyclophosphamide for patients with moderate to severe paraquat poisoning  hospitals may provide this treatment as part of an rct with allocation concealment.
4791,dietary fat and obesity: evidence from epidemiology.,the epidemiological evidence that a high-fat diet promotes the development of obesity is considered suggestive but not definitive. the purpose of this paper is to provide a review of various epidemiological methods that have been used to address this issue as well as an updated summary of the existing evidence. ecological studies describing dietary fat intake and obesity at the population level provide mixed results and are likely to be biased by both confounding and unknown data quality factors that differ systematically across the populations studied. cross-sectional studies are generally in agreement that the concentration of fat in the diet is positively associated with relative weight. prospective studies of diet in relation to subsequent weight change give inconsistent results. this may be due to behavioural factors such as dieting in response to weight gain; in addition  this type of study rarely takes into account the possible interaction between genetic predisposition and dietary fat in promoting weight gain. finally  intervention studies in free-living subjects are considered  providing evidence of a consistent but short-lived period of active weight loss on low-fat diets. the experimental evidence on this relationship is more conclusive than the epidemiological evidence  although biological mechanisms remain controversial. some areas for future epidemiological research involve: longitudinal studies of dietary fat intake as a predictor of growth in children; observational studies relating total dietary fat and specific types of fat to overall as well as regional adiposity; and randomized intervention studies of the effect of low-fat diets with particular emphasis on and familial predisposition to obesity and other possible modifying factors.
4793,phosphoinositide 3-kinase signalling--which way to target?,abstract phosphoinositide 3-kinases (pi3ks) are central to the control of cell growth  proliferation and survival  and drive the progression of tumours by activating phosphoinositide-dependent kinase  protein kinase b and the target of rapamycin. other downstream effectors link pi3k to cell motility and the control of cardiovascular parameters. current knowledge indicates that pi3ks might qualify as drug targets for the treatment of cancer  chronic inflammation  allergy and cardiovascular failure. however  pi3ks also modulate vital processes such as metabolic control and nutrient uptake. here  mechanistic data and mouse phenotypic analyses are summarised  and the possible success of therapeutic inhibition of distinct pi3k isoforms is discussed.
4795,[detection of crispr and its relationship to drug resistance in shigella].,objective to detect clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (crispr) in shigella  and to analyze its relationship to drug resistance. methods four pairs of primers were used for the detection of convincing crispr structures crispr-s2 and crispr-s4  questionable crispr structures crispr-s1 and crispr-s3 in 60 shigella strains. all primers were designed using sequences in crispr database. crispr finder was used to analyze crispr and susceptibilities of shigella strains were tested by agar diffusion method. furthermore  we analyzed the relationship between drug resistance and crispr-s4. results the positive rate of convincing crispr structures was 95%. the four crispr loci formed 12 spectral patterns (a-l)  all of which contained convincing crispr structures except type k. we found one new repeat and 12 new spacers. the multi-drug resistance rate was 53. 33% . we found no significant difference between crispr-s4 and drug resistant. however  the repeat sequence of crispr-s4 in multi- or te-resistance strains was mainly r4.1 with ac deletions in the 3' end  and the spacer sequences of crispr-s4 in multi-drug resistance strains were mainly sp5.1  sp6.1 and sp7. conclusion crispr was common in shigella. variations df repeat sequences and diversities of spacer sequences might be related to drug resistance in shigella.
4797,radiotherapy plus concomitant and adjuvant temozolomide for glioblastoma.,background glioblastoma  the most common primary brain tumor in adults  is usually rapidly fatal. the current standard of care for newly diagnosed glioblastoma is surgical resection to the extent feasible  followed by adjuvant radiotherapy. in this trial we compared radiotherapy alone with radiotherapy plus temozolomide  given concomitantly with and after radiotherapy  in terms of efficacy and safety. methods patients with newly diagnosed  histologically confirmed glioblastoma were randomly assigned to receive radiotherapy alone (fractionated focal irradiation in daily fractions of 2 gy given 5 days per week for 6 weeks  for a total of 60 gy) or radiotherapy plus continuous daily temozolomide (75 mg per square meter of body-surface area per day  7 days per week from the first to the last day of radiotherapy)  followed by six cycles of adjuvant temozolomide (150 to 200 mg per square meter for 5 days during each 28-day cycle). the primary end point was overall survival. results a total of 573 patients from 85 centers underwent randomization. the median age was 56 years  and 84 percent of patients had undergone debulking surgery. at a median follow-up of 28 months  the median survival was 14.6 months with radiotherapy plus temozolomide and 12.1 months with radiotherapy alone. the unadjusted hazard ratio for death in the radiotherapy-plus-temozolomide group was 0.63 (95 percent confidence interval  0.52 to 0.75; p<0.001 by the log-rank test). the two-year survival rate was 26.5 percent with radiotherapy plus temozolomide and 10.4 percent with radiotherapy alone. concomitant treatment with radiotherapy plus temozolomide resulted in grade 3 or 4 hematologic toxic effects in 7 percent of patients. conclusions the addition of temozolomide to radiotherapy for newly diagnosed glioblastoma resulted in a clinically meaningful and statistically significant survival benefit with minimal additional toxicity.
4799,male japanese quails with female brains do not show male sexual behaviors.,during embryonic development  gonadal steroid hormones (androgens and estrogens) are thought to organize the sexual differentiation of the brain in the heterogametic sexes of higher vertebrates (males in mammals  females in birds). brain differentiation of the homogametic sexes is thought to proceed by default  not requiring sex hormones for sex-specific organization. in gallinaceous birds such as the japanese quail  female brain organization is thought to develop via estrogen-dependent demasculinization of a default male brain phenotype. we performed male donor-to-female host (mf)  female-to-male (fm)  male-to-male (mm)  and female-to-female (ff) isotopic  isochronic transplantation of the forebrain primordium in japanese quail embryos before gonadal differentiation had occurred; brain chimeras had a forebrain (including the hypothalamus) originating exclusively from donor cells. mm  ff  and mf chimeras all showed sexual behavior governed by the genetic sex of the host. in contrast  fm chimeras (genetically female forebrain  all other tissues genetically male) showed no mounting and only rudimentary crowing behavior. although mm  ff  mf  and fm chimeras all showed host-typical production of steroid hormones during embryonic life  only fm chimeras were hypogonadal  had atypical low levels of circulating testosterone in adulthood  and showed reduction (crowing) or absence (mounting) of reproductive behaviors. morphological features of the medial preoptic nucleus (a sexually dimorphic brain area) also were not male-like in fm males. these data demonstrate a brain-intrinsic  genetically determined component that organizes the sex-typical production of gonadal hormones in adulthood and call for a reevaluation of the mechanisms underlying brain sexual differentiation in other higher-vertebrate species.
4801,abc of burns. introduction.,burns are one of the most devastating conditions encountered in medicine. the injury represents an assault on all aspects of the patient  from the physical to the psychological. it affects all ages  from babies to elderly people  and is a problem in both the developed and developing world. all of us have experienced the severe pain that even a small burn can bring. however the pain and distress caused by a large burn are not limited to the immediate event. the visible physical and the invisible psychological scars are long lasting and often lead to chronic disability. burn injuries represent a diverse and varied challenge to medical and paramedical staff. correct management requires a skilled multidisciplinary approach that addresses all the problems facing a burn patient. this series provides an overview of the most important aspects of burn injuries for hospital and non-hospital healthcare workers.​workers. figure 1    top: child with 70% full thickness burns  which required resuscitation  intensive care support  and extensive debridement and skin grafting. left: the same child one year later at a burns camp  having made a good recovery. a reasonable outcome is possible ...
4803,dnmt1 inhibition reprograms pancreatic cancer stem cells via upregulation of the mir-17-92 cluster.,pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (pdac) and other carcinomas are hierarchically organized  with cancer stem cells (csc) residing at the top of the hierarchy  where they drive tumor progression  metastasis  and chemoresistance. as csc and non-csc share an identical genetic background  we hypothesize that differences in epigenetics account for the striking functional differences between these two cell populations. epigenetic mechanisms  such as dna methylation  play an important role in maintaining pluripotency and regulating the differentiation of stem cells  but the role of dna methylation in pancreatic csc is obscure. in this study  we investigated the genome-wide dna methylation profile of pdac csc  and we determined the importance of dna methyltransferases for csc maintenance and tumorigenicity. using high-throughput methylation analysis  we discovered that sorted cscs have a higher level of dna methylation  regardless of the heterogeneity or polyclonality of the csc populations present in the tumors analyzed. mechanistically  csc expressed higher dnmt1 levels than non-csc. pharmacologic or genetic targeting of dnmt1 in cscs reduced their self-renewal and in vivo tumorigenic potential  defining dnmt1 as a candidate csc therapeutic target. the inhibitory effect we observed was mediated in part through epigenetic reactivation of previously silenced mirnas  in particular the mir-17-92 cluster. together  our findings indicate that dna methylation plays an important role in csc biology and also provide a rationale to develop epigenetic modulators to target csc plasticity and improve the poor outcome of pdac patients. cancer res; 76(15); 4546-58. ©2016 aacr.
4805,the hsa domain binds nuclear actin-related proteins to regulate chromatin-remodeling atpases,we identify the helicase-sant–associated (hsa) domain as the primary binding platform for nuclear actin-related proteins (arps) and actin. individual hsa domains from chromatin remodelers (rsc  yeast swi-snf  human swi-snf  swr1 and ino80) or modifiers (nua4) reconstitute their respective arp–arp or arp–actin modules. in rsc  the hsa domain resides on the catalytic atpase subunit sth1. the sth1 hsa is essential in vivo  and its omission causes the specific loss of arps and a moderate reduction in atpase activity. genetic selections for arp suppressors yielded specific gain-of-function mutations in two new domains in sth1  the post-hsa domain and protrusion 1  which are essential for rsc function in vivo but not arp association. taken together  we define the role of the hsa domain and provide evidence for a regulatory relationship involving the arp–hsa module and two new functional domains conserved in remodeler atpases that contain arps.
4807,folate affects apoptosis in human trophoblastic cells.,effects of folate deficiency on the rate of apoptosis in human cytotrophoblastic cells has been investigated. apoptosis was determined in cytotrophoblastic cells after culture in 1. control medium  2. folate-free medium and 3. folate-free medium plus 10% fetal calf serum. apoptosis rates in cells cultured in mediums 2 and 3 were significantly higher than those cultured in the control medium (p<0.02 and p<0.03  respectively). in conclusion  human cytotrophoblastic cells show a significantly increased rate of apoptosis in vitro after culture in a folate-free medium. possible explanations for the association between folate deficiency and pregnancy complications are suggested.
4809,immune dysregulation in major depression: a critical review of existing evidence.,it is now well established that depression is associated with immune dysregulation. it is not  however  known whether this immune dysregulation plays a role in the pathophysiology of major depression or whether it increases the susceptibility of the depressed patient to immune-related disorders. this article presents a critical review of existing evidence for immune dysregulation in major depression  including changes in leucocyte trafficking  lymphocyte function  and markers of immune activation. possible mediators of immune dysregulation in major depression are briefly discussed. finally  the relationship between major depression and several medical conditions such as infection  allergy and autoimmune disorders  cardiovascular diseases  cancer and aids is critically reviewed.
4811,the international classification of headache disorders.,a set of related medical disorders that lack a proper classification system and diagnostic criteria is like a society without laws. the result is incoherence at best  chaos at worst. for this reason  the international classification of headache disorders (ichd) is arguably the single most important breakthrough in headache medicine over the last 50 years. the ichd identifies and categorizes more than a hundred different kinds of headache in a logical  hierarchal system. even more important  it has provided explicit diagnostic criteria for all of the headache disorders listed. the ichd quickly became universally accepted  and criticism of the classification has been minor relative to that directed at other disease classification systems. over the 20 years following publication of the first edition of the ichd  headache research has rapidly accelerated despite sparse allocation of resources to that effort. in summary  the ichd has attained widespread acceptance at the international level and has substantially facilitated both clinical research and clinical care in the field of headache medicine.
4813,oxidant stress promotes disease by activating camkii.,camkii is activated by oxidation of methionine residues residing in the regulatory domain. oxidized camkii (ox-camkii) is now thought to participate in cardiovascular and pulmonary diseases and cancer. this invited review summarizes current evidence for the role of ox-camkii in disease  considers critical knowledge gaps and suggests new areas for inquiry.
4815,wnt5a regulates adipose tissue angiogenesis via antiangiogenic vegf-a165b in obese humans.,experimental studies have suggested that wingless-related integration site 5a (wnt5a) is a proinflammatory secreted protein that is associated with metabolic dysfunction in obesity. impaired angiogenesis in fat depots has been implicated in the development of adipose tissue capillary rarefaction  hypoxia  inflammation  and metabolic dysfunction. we have recently demonstrated that impaired adipose tissue angiogenesis is associated with overexpression of antiangiogenic factor vegf-a165b in human fat and the systemic circulation. in the present study  we postulated that upregulation of wnt5a is associated with angiogenic dysfunction and examined its role in regulating vegf-a165b expression in human obesity. we biopsied subcutaneous and visceral adipose tissue from 38 obese individuals (body mass index: 44 ± 7 kg/m2  age: 37 ± 11 yr) during planned bariatric surgery and characterized depot-specific protein expression of vegf-a165b and wnt5a using western blot analysis. in both subcutaneous and visceral fat  vegf-a165b expression correlated strongly with wnt5a protein (r = 0.9  p < 0.001). in subcutaneous adipose tissue where angiogenic capacity is greater than in the visceral depot  exogenous human recombinant wnt5a increased vegf-a165b expression in both whole adipose tissue and isolated vascular endothelial cell fractions (p < 0.01 and p < 0.05  respectively). this was associated with markedly blunted angiogenic capillary sprout formation in human fat pad explants. moreover  recombinant wnt5a increased secretion of soluble fms-like tyrosine kinase-1  a negative regulator of angiogenesis  in the sprout media (p < 0.01). both vegf-a165b-neutralizing antibody and secreted frizzled-related protein 5  which acts as a decoy receptor for wnt5a  significantly improved capillary sprout formation and reduced soluble fms-like tyrosine kinase-1 production (p < 0.05). we demonstrated a significant regulatory nexus between wnt5a and antiangiogenic vegf-a165b in the adipose tissue of obese subjects that was linked to angiogenic dysfunction. elevated wnt5a expression in obesity may function as a negative regulator of angiogenesis. new & noteworthy wingless-related integration site 5a (wnt5a) negatively regulates adipose tissue angiogenesis via vegf-a165b in human obesity.
4817,inflammation and its role in neuroprotection  axonal regeneration and functional recovery after spinal cord injury.,trauma to the central nervous system (cns) triggers intraparenchymal inflammation and activation of systemic immunity with the capacity to exacerbate neuropathology and stimulate mechanisms of tissue repair. despite our incomplete understanding of the mechanisms that control these divergent functions  immune-based therapies are becoming a therapeutic focus. this review will address the complexities and controversies of post-traumatic neuroinflammation  particularly in spinal cord. in addition  current therapies designed to target neuroinflammatory cascades will be discussed.
4819,kruppel-like factor klf10 targets transforming growth factor-beta1 to regulate cd4(+)cd25(-) t cells and t regulatory cells.,cd4(+)cd25(+) regulatory t cells (t regs) play a major role in the maintenance of self-tolerance and immune suppression  although the mechanisms controlling t reg development and suppressor function remain incompletely understood. herein  we provide evidence that kruppel-like factor 10 (klf10/tieg1) constitutes an important regulator of t regulatory cell suppressor function and cd4(+)cd25(-) t cell activation through distinct mechanisms involving transforming growth factor (tgf)-beta1 and foxp3. klf10 overexpressing cd4(+)cd25(-) t cells induced both tgf-beta1 and foxp3 expression  an effect associated with reduced t-bet (th1 marker) and gata3 (th2 marker) mrna expression. consistently  klf10(-/-) cd4(+)cd25(-) t cells have enhanced differentiation along both th1 and th2 pathways and elaborate higher levels of th1 and th2 cytokines. furthermore  klf10(-/-) cd4(+)cd25(-) t cell effectors cannot be appropriately suppressed by wild-type t regs. surprisingly  klf10(-/-) t reg cells have reduced suppressor function  independent of foxp3 expression  with decreased expression and elaboration of tgf-beta1  an effect completely rescued by exogenous treatment with tgf-beta1. mechanistic studies demonstrate that in response to tgf-beta1  klf10 can transactivate both tgf-beta1 and foxp3 promoters  implicating klf10 in a positive feedback loop that may promote cell-intrinsic control of t cell activation. finally  klf10(-/-) cd4(+)cd25(-) t cells promoted atherosclerosis by approximately 2-fold in apoe(-/-)/scid/scid mice with increased leukocyte accumulation and peripheral pro-inflammatory cytokines. thus  klf10 is a critical regulator in the transcriptional network controlling tgf-beta1 in both cd4(+)cd25(-) t cells and t regs and plays an important role in regulating atherosclerotic lesion formation in mice.
4821,enhancement of anxiety-like responsiveness to the cannabinoid cb(1) receptor agonist hu-210 following chronic stress.,the effect that chronic unpredictable stress had on the anxiety-like response elicited by the cannabinoid receptor agonist hu-210 [3-(1 1-dimethylheptyl)-(-)-11-hydroxy-delta 8-tetrahydrocannabinol] in the elevated plus maze was investigated here. male long-evans rats were either unstressed or were subjected to a 21-day regimen of chronic unpredictable stress  and subsequently were subdivided into three testing groups (vehicle  10 and 50 microg/kg of hu-210) and tested on the elevated plus maze. results demonstrated that in unstressed animals  a low dose of hu-210 induced an anxiolytic response  whereas a high dose induced an anxiogenic response. further  in stressed animals both the low and the high doses of hu-210 induced anxiogenic responses. these findings suggest that chronic stress enhances either cannabinoid receptor responsivity or one of the interacting systems implicated in emotional states.
4823,zinc supplementation during lactation: effects on maternal status and milk zinc concentrations.,the effects of a zinc supplement on maternal zinc status and milk zinc concentrations through > or = 7 mo of lactation were examined. seventy-one lactating women received either a daily 15-mg zinc supplement (zs  n = 40) or placebo (nzs  n = 31) started by 2 wk postpartum in a double-blind  randomized design. overall mean zinc intakes were 13.0 +/- 3.4 mg/d for the nzs group and 25.7 +/- 3.9 mg/d (including supplement) for the zs group. plasma zinc concentrations of the zs group were significantly higher than those of the nzs group (p = 0.05). milk zinc concentrations declined significantly over the course of the study for all subjects but were not affected by zinc supplementation. the mean dietary zinc intake observed in the nonsupplemented group was adequate to maintain normal maternal zinc status and milk zinc concentrations through > or = 7 mo lactation. similar controlled intervention trials in less well-nourished populations will be required to assess the impact of lower zinc intakes on milk zinc concentrations.
4825,dodecameric structure and atpase activity of the human tip48/tip49 complex.,tip48 and tip49 are two related and highly conserved eukaryotic aaa(+) proteins with an essential biological function and a critical role in major pathways that are closely linked to cancer. they are found together as components of several highly conserved chromatin-modifying complexes. both proteins show sequence homology to bacterial ruvb but the nature and mechanism of their biochemical role remain unknown. recombinant human tip48 and tip49 were assembled into a stable high molecular mass equimolar complex and tested for activity in vitro. tip48/tip49 complex formation resulted in synergistic increase in atpase activity but atp hydrolysis was not stimulated in the presence of single-stranded  double-stranded or four-way junction dna and no dna helicase or branch migration activity could be detected. complexes with catalytic defects in either tip48 or tip49 had no atpase activity showing that both proteins within the tip48/tip49 complex are required for atp hydrolysis. the structure of the tip48/tip49 complex was examined by negative stain electron microscopy. three-dimensional reconstruction at 20 a resolution revealed that the tip48/tip49 complex consisted of two stacked hexameric rings with c6 symmetry. the top and bottom rings showed substantial structural differences. interestingly  tip48 formed oligomers in the presence of adenine nucleotides  whilst tip49 did not. the results point to biochemical differences between tip48 and tip49  which may explain the structural differences between the two hexameric rings and could be significant for specialised functions that the proteins perform individually.
4827,altered tcr signaling from geometrically repatterned immunological synapses.,the immunological synapse is a specialized cell-cell junction that is defined by large-scale spatial patterns of receptors and signaling molecules yet remains largely enigmatic in terms of formation and function. we used supported bilayer membranes and nanometer-scale structures fabricated onto the underlying substrate to impose geometric constraints on immunological synapse formation. analysis of the resulting alternatively patterned synapses revealed a causal relation between the radial position of t cell receptors (tcrs) and signaling activity  with prolonged signaling from tcr microclusters that had been mechanically trapped in the peripheral regions of the synapse. these results are consistent with a model of the synapse in which spatial translocation of tcrs represents a direct mechanism of signal regulation.
4829,mitosis-specific anchoring of gamma tubulin complexes by pericentrin controls spindle organization and mitotic entry.,microtubule nucleation is the best known function of centrosomes. centrosomal microtubule nucleation is mediated primarily by gamma tubulin ring complexes (gamma turcs). however  little is known about the molecules that anchor these complexes to centrosomes. in this study  we show that the centrosomal coiled-coil protein pericentrin anchors gamma turcs at spindle poles through an interaction with gamma tubulin complex proteins 2 and 3 (gcp2/3). pericentrin silencing by small interfering rnas in somatic cells disrupted gamma tubulin localization and spindle organization in mitosis but had no effect on gamma tubulin localization or microtubule organization in interphase cells. similarly  overexpression of the gcp2/3 binding domain of pericentrin disrupted the endogenous pericentrin-gamma turc interaction and perturbed astral microtubules and spindle bipolarity. when added to xenopus mitotic extracts  this domain uncoupled gamma turcs from centrosomes  inhibited microtubule aster assembly  and induced rapid disassembly of preassembled asters. all phenotypes were significantly reduced in a pericentrin mutant with diminished gcp2/3 binding and were specific for mitotic centrosomal asters as we observed little effect on interphase asters or on asters assembled by the ran-mediated centrosome-independent pathway. additionally  pericentrin silencing or overexpression induced g2/antephase arrest followed by apoptosis in many but not all cell types. we conclude that pericentrin anchoring of gamma tubulin complexes at centrosomes in mitotic cells is required for proper spindle organization and that loss of this anchoring mechanism elicits a checkpoint response that prevents mitotic entry and triggers apoptotic cell death.
4831,vascular endothelial growth factor stimulates bone repair by promoting angiogenesis and bone turnover.,several growth factors are expressed in distinct temporal and spatial patterns during fracture repair. of these  vascular endothelial growth factor  vegf  is of particular interest because of its ability to induce neovascularization (angiogenesis). to determine whether vegf is required for bone repair  we inhibited vegf activity during secondary bone healing via a cartilage intermediate (endochondral ossification) and during direct bone repair (intramembranous ossification) in a novel mouse model. treatment of mice with a soluble  neutralizing vegf receptor decreased angiogenesis  bone formation  and callus mineralization in femoral fractures. inhibition of vegf also dramatically inhibited healing of a tibial cortical bone defect  consistent with our discovery of a direct autocrine role for vegf in osteoblast differentiation. in separate experiments  exogenous vegf enhanced blood vessel formation  ossification  and new bone (callus) maturation in mouse femur fractures  and promoted bony bridging of a rabbit radius segmental gap defect. our results at specific time points during the course of healing underscore the role of vegf in endochondral vs. intramembranous ossification  as well as skeletal development vs. bone repair. the responses to exogenous vegf observed in two distinct model systems and species indicate that a slow-release formulation of vegf  applied locally at the site of bone damage  may prove to be an effective therapy to promote human bone repair.
4833,an expanded oct4 interaction network: implications for stem cell biology  development  and disease,the transcription factor oct4 is key in embryonic stem cell identity and reprogramming. insight into its partners should illuminate how the pluripotent state is established and regulated. here  we identify a considerably expanded set of oct4-binding proteins in mouse embryonic stem cells. we find that oct4 associates with a varied set of proteins including regulators of gene expression and modulators of oct4 function. half of its partners are transcriptionally regulated by oct4 itself or other stem cell transcription factors  whereas one-third display a significant change in expression upon cell differentiation. the majority of oct4-associated proteins studied to date show an early lethal phenotype when mutated. a fraction of the human orthologs is associated with inherited developmental disorders or causative of cancer. the oct4 interactome provides a resource for dissecting mechanisms of oct4 function  enlightening the basis of pluripotency and development  and identifying potential additional reprogramming factors.
4835,primary care and health insurance among women released from new york city jails.,factors associated with primary care utilization and health insurance coverage were examined among 511 women leaving jail in new york city from 1997-2001. one year after release  roughly half of the sample reported primary care utilization (47%) and health insurance coverage (56%). neither outcome was more likely among those reporting diabetes  asthma  or depression. primary care utilization was more likely among those reporting receipt of public benefits  health insurance coverage  moderate social support  avoidance of illegal activity  and hiv seropositivity. health insurance coverage was associated with receipt of public benefits  hospitalization  primary care  and avoiding re-arrest. this study demonstrated that a majority of women leaving jail  including those with chronic diseases  lack primary care. these data highlight the need to plan for continuity of care from corrections to the community and suggest further that this can be facilitated with provision of health benefits and social support.
4837,methylation of histone h3 lysine-79 by dot1p plays multiple roles in the response to uv damage in saccharomyces cerevisiae.,various proteins have been found to play roles in both the repair of uv damaged dna and heterochromatin-mediated silencing in the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae. in particular  factors that are involved in the methylation of lysine-79 of histone h3 by dot1p have been implicated in both processes  suggesting a bipartite function for this modification. we find that a dot1 null mutation and a histone h3 point mutation at lysine-79 cause increased sensitivity to uv radiation  suggesting that lysine-79 methylation is important for efficient repair of uv damage. epistasis analysis between dot1 and various uv repair genes indicates that lysine-79 methylation plays overlapping roles within the nucleotide excision  post-replication and recombination repair pathways  as well as rad9-mediated checkpoint function. in contrast  epistasis analysis with the h3 lysine-79 point mutation indicates that the lysine-to-glutamic acid substitution exerts specific effects within the nucleotide excision repair and post-replication repair pathways  suggesting that this allele only disrupts a subset of the functions of lysine-79 methylation. the overall results indicate the existence of distinct and separable roles of histone h3 lysine-79 methylation in the response to uv damage  potentially serving to coordinate the various repair processes.
4839,multi-stage chemical carcinogenesis in mouse skin: fundamentals and applications,for more than 60 years  the chemical induction of tumors in mouse skin has been used to study mechanisms of epithelial carcinogenesis and evaluate modifying factors. in the traditional two-stage skin carcinogenesis model  the initiation phase is accomplished by the application of a sub-carcinogenic dose of a carcinogen. subsequently  tumor development is elicited by repeated treatment with a tumor-promoting agent. the initiation protocol can be completed within 1–3 h depending on the number of mice used; whereas the promotion phase requires twice weekly treatments (1–2 h) and once weekly tumor palpation (1–2 h) for the duration of the study. using the protocol described here  a highly reproducible papilloma burden is expected within 10–20 weeks with progression of a portion of the tumors to squamous cell carcinomas within 20–50 weeks. in contrast to complete skin carcinogenesis  the two-stage model allows for greater yield of premalignant lesions  as well as separation of the initiation and promotion phases.
4841,hypoxic heterogeneity in human tumors: ef5 binding  vasculature  necrosis  and proliferation.,we evaluated the levels and distribution of hypoxia in 31 human tumors using fluorescent immunohistochemical detection of binding by the 2-nitroimidazole  ef5. hypoxia was found to be a heterogeneous property of human tumors. necrosis was usually found adjacent to the highest level of binding in an individual patient's tumor. however  hypoxia often occurred without necrosis. in the group of tumors studied  the most common relationship between blood vessels (pecam/cd31) and ef5 staining was consistent with diffusion-limited hypoxia; acute hypoxia occurred infrequently. within a given patient's tumor  there was an inverse correlation between regions of proliferation (ki-67) and regions of hypoxia. again  however  when these parameters were examined in a group of patients  the absence of proliferation did not predict the presence of hypoxia. the relationships between hypoxia and other biologic endpoints are complex  but  within a given tumor's spatial relationships  they are in accord with known physiologic principles. thus  our data emphasize that the relationships between hypoxia and other biologic parameters vary between patients. necrosis  proliferation  and blood vessel distribution cannot predict the level or presence of hypoxia in an individual patient's tumor.
4843,perceptual limits in a simulated "cocktail party".,numerosity judgments of simultaneous talkers were examined. listeners were required to report the number of talkers heard when this number varied (1 to 13). spatial location of talkers (1 or 6 locations)  duration of talker voices (0.8 s  5.0 s  and 15.0 s)  and gender arrangement of talkers also were manipulated in four experiments. in all experiments  the proportion of correct numerosity judgments monotonically decreased as talker numbers increased. perceptual limits  defined as talker numbers with proportion correct scores of 0.5  varied between 3 to 5 talkers  on average  depending on listening conditions  and were significantly higher for spatially separated talkers  for the longer voices  and for the mixed gender voices (experiments 1  2  and 3). in addition  experiment 4 found that average numerosity response times increased monotonically over a range of one to four talkers. these results support the idea that  before counting talkers  listeners perceptually segregate talkers to render numerosity judgments. they also suggest that our functional auditory world for simultaneous voices may consist of  at most  three to five talkers depending on listening situations. in light of these results  possible causes for such perceptual limits are discussed.
4845,can hematological parameters discriminate malaria from nonmalarious acute febrile illness in the tropics?,background malaria is considered as the main differential diagnosis of acute febrile illness in the tropics  and alteration of various hematological parameters has been observed in patients with malaria. aim to ascertain if certain hematological parameters increase the probability of malaria in patients with acute febrile illnesses. settings and design hospital based  prospective cohort study. methods and material all consecutive in patients with fever of less than seven days in duration were included in the study. patients where localizing cause for fever could be determined were excluded. hematological parameters (hemoglobin  red cell distribution width (rdw)  leukocyte count  and platelet counts) were determined by using automated counter  and peripheral smear examination for malarial parasite was taken as gold standard for the diagnosis of malaria. statistical analysis used diagnostic accuracy was measured by computing sensitivity  specificity  predictive values and likelihood ratios. the precision of these estimates was evaluated using 95% confidence intervals. results and conclusions a total of 184 patients were included in the study and 70 (38%) had a positive peripheral smear for malarial parasite. thrombocytopenia alone (platelet countless than 150 000/mm3) was a predictor for malaria (sn 60%  sp 88%  lr+ 5.04) and in combination with anemia (hb < 10 g/dl) it was next best parameter (sn 69%  sp 74%  lr+ 2.77). rdw and leukocyte count were not predictive. the conclusion of this study is that the presence of thrombocytopenia in a patient with acute febrile illness increases the probability of malarial infection.
4847,rapid dna methylation changes after exposure to traffic particles.,rationale exposure to particulate air pollution has been related to increased hospitalization and death  particularly from cardiovascular disease. lower blood dna methylation content is found in processes related to cardiovascular outcomes  such as oxidative stress  aging  and atherosclerosis. objectives we evaluated whether particulate pollution modifies dna methylation in heavily methylated sequences with high representation throughout the human genome. methods we measured dna methylation of long interspersed nucleotide element (line)-1 and alu repetitive elements by quantitative polymerase chain reaction-pyrosequencing of 1 097 blood samples from 718 elderly participants in the boston area normative aging study. we used covariate-adjusted mixed models to account for within-subject correlation in repeated measures. we estimated the effects on dna methylation of ambient particulate pollutants (black carbon  particulate matter with aerodynamic diameter < or = 2.5 microm [pm2.5]  or sulfate) in multiple time windows (4 h to 7 d) before the examination. we estimated standardized regression coefficients (beta) expressing the fraction of a standard deviation change in dna methylation associated with a standard deviation increase in exposure. measurements and main results repetitive element dna methylation varied in association with time-related variables  such as day of the week and season. line-1 methylation decreased after recent exposure to higher black carbon (beta = -0.11; 95% confidence interval [ci]  -0.18 to -0.04; p = 0.002) and pm2.5 (beta = -0.13; 95% ci  -0.19 to -0.06; p < 0.001 for the 7-d moving average). in two-pollutant models  only black carbon  a tracer of traffic particles  was significantly associated with line-1 methylation (beta = -0.09; 95% ci  -0.17 to -0.01; p = 0.03). no association was found with alu methylation (p > 0.12). conclusions we found decreased repeated-element methylation after exposure to traffic particles. whether decreased methylation mediates exposure-related health effects remains to be determined.
4849,induction of galactokinase in saccharomyces cerevisiae: kinetics of induction and glucose effects.,the induced synthesis of galactokinase and the repressing effects of glucose on this synthesis have been investigated in whole yeast cells rendered permeable by treatment with dimethyl sulfoxide. it was found that the induction response of uninduced cells to galactose is clearly dependent on the nature of the carbon source upon which the culture was grown prior to exposure to galactose. glucose-grown cells exhibited a long lag before induction  whereas lactate-grown cells exhibited induced synthesis within 8 min. a concentration of 0.5% galactose was found to be optimal for induction. the addition of glucose to yeast cultures growing on galactose resulted in a severe transient repression of synthesis which was followed by a resumed rate of synthesis characteristic of a weaker permanent catabolite repression. neither 2-deoxygalactose nor fucose acted as gratuitous inducers of the pathway  nor did they serve as a substrates for galactokinase.
4851,human bone marrow adipocytes block granulopoiesis through neuropilin-1-induced granulocyte colony-stimulating factor inhibition.,adipocytes are part of hematopoietic microenvironment  even though up to now in humans  their role in hematopoiesis is still questioned. we have previously shown that accumulation of fat cells in femoral bone marrow (bm) coincides with increased expression of neuropilin-1 (np-1)  while it is weakly expressed in hematopoietic iliac crest bm. starting from this observation  we postulated that adipocytes might exert a negative effect on hematopoiesis mediated through np-1. to test this hypothesis  we set up bm adipocytes differentiated into fibroblast-like fat cells (flfc)  which share the major characteristics of primitive unilocular fat cells  as an experimental model. as expected  flfcs constitutively produced macrophage colony stimulating factor and induced cd34(+) differentiation into macrophages independently of cell-to-cell contact. by contrast  granulopoiesis was hampered by cell-to-cell contact but could be restored in transwell culture conditions  together with granulocyte colony stimulating factor production. both functions were also recovered when flfcs cultured in contact with cd34(+) cells were treated with an antibody neutralizing np-1  which proved its critical implication in contact inhibition. an inflammatory cytokine such as interleukin-1 beta or dexamethasone modulates flfc properties to restore granulopoiesis. our data provide the first evidence that primary adipocytes exert regulatory functions during hematopoiesis that might be implicated in some pathological processes. disclosure of potential conflicts of interest is found at the end of this article.
4853,small-molecule antagonists of p53-mdm2 binding: research tools and potential therapeutics.,p53 regulates a key pathway which protects normal tissues from tumor development that may result from diverse forms of stress. in the absence of stress  growth suppressive and proapoptotic activity of p53 is inhibited by mdm2 which binds p53 and negatively regulates its activity and stability. mdm2 antagonists could activate p53 and may offer a novel therapeutic approach to cancer. recently  we identified the first potent and selective low molecular weight inhibitors of mdm2-p53 binding  the nutlins. these molecules activate the p53 pathway and suppress tumor growth in vitro and in vivo. they represent valuable new tools for studying the p53 pathway and its defects in cancer. nutlins induce p53-dependent apoptosis in human cancer cells but appear cytostatic to proliferating normal cells. their potent activity against osteosarcoma xenografts suggests that mdm2 antagonists may have clinical utility in the treatment of tumors with wild-type p53.
4855,high dub3 expression in mouse escs couples the g1/s checkpoint to pluripotency.,the molecular mechanism underlying g1/s checkpoint bypass in mouse embryonic stem cells (escs) remains unknown. dna damage blocks s phase entry by inhibiting the cdk2 kinase through destruction of its activator  the cdc25a phosphatase. we observed high cdc25a levels in g1 that persist even after dna damage in mouse escs. we also found higher expression of dub3  a deubiquitylase that controls cdc25a protein abundance. moreover  we demonstrate that the dub3 gene is a direct target of esrrb  a key transcription factor of the self-renewal machinery. we show that dub3 expression is strongly downregulated during neural conversion and precedes cdc25a destabilization  while forced dub3 expression in escs becomes lethal upon differentiation  concomitant to cell-cycle remodeling and lineage commitment. finally  knockdown of either dub3 or cdc25a induced spontaneous differentiation of escs. altogether  these findings couple the self-renewal machinery to cell-cycle control through a deubiquitylase in escs.
4857,endogenous mirna sponge lincrna-ror regulates oct4  nanog  and sox2 in human embryonic stem cell self-renewal.,the embryonic stem cell (esc) transcriptional and epigenetic networks are controlled by a multilayer regulatory circuitry  including core transcription factors (tfs)  posttranscriptional modifier micrornas (mirnas)  and some other regulators. however  the role of large intergenic noncoding rnas (lincrnas) in this regulatory circuitry and their underlying mechanism remains undefined. here  we demonstrate that a lincrna  linc-ror  may function as a key competing endogenous rna to link the network of mirnas and core tfs  e.g.  oct4  sox2  and nanog. we show that linc-ror shares mirna-response elements with these core tfs and that linc-ror prevents these core tfs from mirna-mediated suppression in self-renewing human esc. we suggest that linc-ror forms a feedback loop with core tfs and mirnas to regulate esc maintenance and differentiation. these results may provide insights into the functional interactions of the components of genetic networks during development and may lead to new therapies for many diseases.
4859,the isolation and characterization of a cdna encoding phospholipid-specific inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatase.,we report the cdna cloning and characterization of a novel human inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatase (5-phosphatase) that has substrate specificity unlike previously described members of this large gene family. all previously described members hydrolyze water soluble inositol phosphates. this enzyme hydrolyzes only lipid substrates  phosphatidylinositol 3 4 5-trisphosphate and phosphatidylinositol 4 5-bisphosphate. the cdna isolated comprises 3110 base pairs and predicts a protein product of 644 amino acids and m(r) = 70 023. we designate this 5-phosphatase as type iv. it is a highly basic protein (pi = 8.8) and has the greatest affinity toward phosphatidylinositol 3 4 5-trisphosphate of known 5-phosphatases. the k(m) is 0.65 micrometer  1/10 that of ship (5.95 micrometer)  another 5-phosphatase that hydrolyzes phosphatidylinositol 3 4 5-trisphosphate. the activity of 5-phosphatase type iv is sensitive to the presence of detergents in the in vitro assay. thus the enzyme hydrolyzes lipid substrates in the absence of detergents or in the presence of n-octyl beta-glucopyranoside or triton x-100  but not in the presence of cetyltriethylammonium bromide  the detergent that has been used in other studies of the hydrolysis of phosphatidylinositol 4 5-bisphosphate. remarkably ship  a 5-phosphatase previously characterized as hydrolyzing only substrates with d-3 phosphates  also readily hydrolyzed phosphatidylinositol 4 5-bisphosphate in the presence of n-octyl beta-glucopyranoside but not cetyltriethylammonium bromide. we used antibodies prepared against a peptide predicted by the cdna to identify the 5-phosphatase type iv enzyme in human tissues and find that it is highly expressed in the brain as determined by western blotting. we also performed western blotting of mouse tissues and found high levels of expression in the brain  testes  and heart with lower levels of expression in other tissues. mrna was detected in many tissues and cell lines as determined by northern blotting.
4861,vsl#3 probiotic upregulates intestinal mucosal alkaline sphingomyelinase and reduces inflammation.,background alkaline sphingomyelinase  an enzyme found exclusively in bile and the intestinal brush border  hydrolyzes sphingomyelin into ceramide  sphingosine and sphingosine-1-phosphate  thereby inducing epithelial apoptosis. reduced levels of alkaline sphingomyelinase have been found in premalignant and malignant intestinal epithelia and in ulcerative colitis tissue. probiotic bacteria can be a source of sphingomyelinase. objective to determine the effect of vsl#3 probiotic therapy on mucosal levels of alkaline sphingomyelinase  both in a mouse model of colitis and in patients with ulcerative colitis. methods interleukin-10 gene-deficient (il10ko) and wild type control mice were treated with vsl#3 (10(9) colony-forming units per day) for three weeks  after which alkaline sphingomyelinase activity was measured in ileal and colonic tissue. as well  15 patients with ulcerative colitis were treated with vsl#3 (900 billion bacteria two times per day for five weeks). alkaline sphingomyelinase activity was measured through biopsies and comparison of ulcerative colitis disease activity index scores obtained before and after treatment. results lowered alkaline sphingomyelinase levels were seen in the colon (p=0.02) and ileum (p=0.04) of il10ko mice  as compared with controls. treatment of these mice with vsl#3 resulted in upregulation of mucosal alkaline sphingomyelinase activity in both the colon (p=0.04) and the ileum (p=0.01). vsl#3 treatment of human patients who had ulcerative colitis decreased mean (+/- sem) ulcerative colitis disease activity index scores from 5.3+/-1.8946 to 0.70+/-0.34 (p=0.02) and increased mucosal alkaline sphingomyelinase activity. conclusion mucosal alkaline sphingomyelinase activity is reduced in the intestine of il10ko mice with colitis and in humans with ulcerative colitis. vsl#3 probiotic therapy upregulates mucosal alkaline sphingomyelinase activity.
4863,addition of a gastrointestinal microbiome modulator to metformin improves metformin tolerance and fasting glucose levels.,background adverse effects of metformin are primarily related to gastrointestinal (gi) intolerance that could limit titration to an efficacious dose or cause discontinuation of the medication. because some metformin side effects may be attributable to shifts in the gi microbiome  we tested whether a gi microbiome modulator (gimm) used in combination with metformin would ameliorate the gi symptoms. methods a 2-period crossover study design was used with 2 treatment sequences  either placebo in period 1 followed by gimm in period 2 or vice versa. study periods lasted for 2 weeks  with a 2-week washout period between. during the first week  type 2 diabetes patients (t2d) who experienced metformin gi intolerance took 500 mg metformin along with their assigned nm504 (gimm) or placebo treatment with breakfast and with dinner. in the second week  the 10 subjects took 500 mg metformin (t.i.d.)  with gimm or placebo consumed with the first and third daily metformin doses. subjects were permitted to discontinue metformin dosing if it became intolerable. results the combination of metformin and gimm treatment produced a significantly better tolerance score to metformin than the placebo combination (6.78 ± 0.65 [mean ± sem] versus 4.45 ± 0.69  p = .0006). mean fasting glucose levels were significantly (p < .02) lower with the metformin-gimm combination (121.3 ± 7.8 mg/dl) than with metformin-placebo (151.9 ± 7.8 mg/dl). conclusion combining a gi microbiome modulator with metformin might allow the greater use of metformin in t2d patients and improve treatment of the disease.
4865,tissue-inherent fate of gpi revealed by gpi-anchored gfp transgenesis.,to clarify the fate of glycosylphosphatidylinositol (gpi) in mammals  we developed gpi-anchored enhanced green fluorescent protein (egfp-gpi) and transgenic mice carrying this fusion construct. when it was introduced to culture cells  the egfp-gpi protein was correctly sorted to plasma membranes and microsomes depending on gpi biosynthesis. transgenic mice carrying egfp-gpi were found to show a broad transgene expression. histologically  a prominent polarized localization of egfp-gpi protein was observed in various epithelia  the nervous system and liver and secreted from some exocrine glands  as well as non-polarized presence in non-epithelial tissues  demonstrating a tissue-inherent manner of gpi sorting.
4867,mechanisms of pancreatic beta-cell death in type 1 and type 2 diabetes: many differences  few similarities.,type 1 and type 2 diabetes are characterized by progressive beta-cell failure. apoptosis is probably the main form of beta-cell death in both forms of the disease. it has been suggested that the mechanisms leading to nutrient- and cytokine-induced beta-cell death in type 2 and type 1 diabetes  respectively  share the activation of a final common pathway involving interleukin (il)-1beta  nuclear factor (nf)-kappab  and fas. we review herein the similarities and differences between the mechanisms of beta-cell death in type 1 and type 2 diabetes. in the insulitis lesion in type 1 diabetes  invading immune cells produce cytokines  such as il-1beta  tumor necrosis factor (tnf)-alpha  and interferon (ifn)-gamma. il-1beta and/or tnf-alpha plus ifn-gamma induce beta-cell apoptosis via the activation of beta-cell gene networks under the control of the transcription factors nf-kappab and stat-1. nf-kappab activation leads to production of nitric oxide (no) and chemokines and depletion of endoplasmic reticulum (er) calcium. the execution of beta-cell death occurs through activation of mitogen-activated protein kinases  via triggering of er stress and by the release of mitochondrial death signals. chronic exposure to elevated levels of glucose and free fatty acids (ffas) causes beta-cell dysfunction and may induce beta-cell apoptosis in type 2 diabetes. exposure to high glucose has dual effects  triggering initially "glucose hypersensitization" and later apoptosis  via different mechanisms. high glucose  however  does not induce or activate il-1beta  nf-kappab  or inducible nitric oxide synthase in rat or human beta-cells in vitro or in vivo in psammomys obesus. ffas may cause beta-cell apoptosis via er stress  which is nf-kappab and no independent. thus  cytokines and nutrients trigger beta-cell death by fundamentally different mechanisms  namely an nf-kappab-dependent mechanism that culminates in caspase-3 activation for cytokines and an nf-kappab-independent mechanism for nutrients. this argues against a unifying hypothesis for the mechanisms of beta-cell death in type 1 and type 2 diabetes and suggests that different approaches will be required to prevent beta-cell death in type 1 and type 2 diabetes.
4869,juvenile mortality increases with clutch size in a neotropical bird,the change in avian clutch size with latitude is a celebrated example of geographic variation in a vertebrate life-history trait. alternative hypotheses for this pattern invoke nest predation  limited food for nestlings  or post-fledging juvenile mortality as selection pressures leading to small clutch size of tropical birds. we manipulated the clutch size of spotted antbirds (hylophylax naevioides) in central panama to test these hypotheses. we observed that rates of nest predation were not influenced by parental activity at nests and parents could successfully feed nestlings in enlarged broods. although larger broods produced the most fledged juveniles  these individuals were less likely to survive to dispersal than were juveniles that fledged from smaller broods. consequently  nest productivity did not vary with clutch size. post-fledging mortality was not related to nestling mass two to three days prior to fledging. rather  differences in the allocation of parental investment per juvenile among differently sized broods appeared to influence juvenile survival probability. these results identify parental care during the post-fledging period as a potential key factor influencing the evolution of small clutch size in tropical birds.
4871,increased susceptibility to uv-induced skin carcinogenesis in polymerase eta-deficient mice.,xeroderma pigmentosum variant (xpv) patients with mutations in the dna polymerase eta (pol eta) gene are hypersensitive to sunlight and have greatly increased susceptibility to sunlight-induced skin cancer. consistent with the ability of pol eta to efficiently bypass uv light-induced cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers  xpv cells lacking pol eta have diminished capacity to replicate uv-damaged dna and are sensitive to uv light-induced killing and mutagenesis. to better understand these and other pol eta functions  we generated pol eta-deficient mice. mice homozygous for a null mutation in pol eta are viable  fertile  and do not show any obvious spontaneous defects during the first year of life. however  fibroblasts derived from these mutant mice are sensitive to killing by exposure to uv light  and all pol eta-deficient mice develop skin tumors after uv irradiation  in contrast to the wild-type littermate controls that did not develop such tumors. these results and biochemical studies of translesion synthesis by mouse pol eta indicate that pol eta-dependent bypass of cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers suppresses uv light-induced skin cancer in mice. moreover  37.5% of pol eta heterozygous mice also developed skin cancer during 5 months after a 5-month exposure to uv light  suggesting that humans who are heterozygous for mutations in pol eta may also have an increased risk of skin cancer.
4873,a novel mechanism of rapid nuclear neutrophil extracellular trap formation in response to staphylococcus aureus.,neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) are webs of dna covered with antimicrobial molecules that constitute a newly described killing mechanism in innate immune defense. previous publications reported that nets take up to 3-4 h to form via an oxidant-dependent event that requires lytic death of neutrophils. in this study  we describe neutrophils responding uniquely to staphylococcus aureus via a novel process of net formation that did not require neutrophil lysis or even breach of the plasma membrane. the multilobular nucleus rapidly became rounded and condensed. during this process  we observed the separation of the inner and outer nuclear membranes and budding of vesicles  and the separated membranes and vesicles were filled with nuclear dna. the vesicles were extruded intact into the extracellular space where they ruptured  and the chromatin was released. this entire process occurred via a unique  very rapid (5-60 min)  oxidant-independent mechanism. mitochondrial dna constituted very little if any of these nets. they did have a limited amount of proteolytic activity and were able to kill s. aureus. with time  the nuclear envelope ruptured  and dna filled the cytoplasm presumably for later lytic net production  but this was distinct from the vesicular release mechanism. panton-valentine leukocidin  autolysin  and a lipase were identified in supernatants with net-inducing activity  but panton-valentine leukocidin was the dominant net inducer. we describe a new mechanism of net release that is very rapid and contributes to trapping and killing of s. aureus.
4875,enteral nutrition in the critically ill patient.,timing and route of nutrition provided to critically ill patients can affect their outcome. early enteral nutrition has been shown to decrease specifically infectious morbidity in the critically ill patient. there is a small group of patients who are malnourished on arrival to the intensive care unit and in these patients parenteral nutrition is beneficial.
4877,in vitro antimicrobial activity of mangrove plant sonneratia alba.,objective to investigate the antimicrobial property of mangrove plant sonneratia alba (s. alba). methods the antimicrobial activity was evaluated using disc diffusion and microdilution methods against six microorganisms. soxhlet apparatus was used for extraction with a series of solvents  n-hexane  ethyl acetate and methanol in sequence of increasing polarity. results methanol extract appeared to be the most effective extract while n-hexane extract showed no activity. the antimicrobial activities were observed against the gram positive bacteria staphylococcus aureus (s. aureus) and bacillus cereus (b. cereus)  the gram negative escherichia coli (e. coli) and the yeast cryptococcus neoformans. pseudomonas aeruginosa and candida albicans appeared to be not sensitive to the concentrations tested since no inhibition zone was observed. e. coli (17.5 mm) appeared to be the most sensitive strain followed by s. aureus (12.5 mm) and b. cereus (12.5 mm). conclusions from this study  it can be concluded that s. alba exhibits antimicrobial activities against certain microorganisms.
4879,psychological outcome 4 years after restrictive bariatric surgery,extreme obesity is associated with severe psychiatric and somatic comorbidity and impairment of psychosocial functioning. bariatric surgery is the most effective treatment not only with regard to weight loss but also with obesity-associated illnesses. health-related psychological and psychosocial variables have been increasingly considered as important outcome variables of bariatric surgery. however  the long-term impact of bariatric surgery on psychological and psychosocial functioning is largely unclear. the aim of this study was to evaluate the relationship between the course of weight and psychological variables including depression  anxiety  health-related quality of life (hrqol)  and self-esteem up to 4 years after obesity surgery. by standardized questionnaires prior to (t1) and 1 year (t2)  2 years (t3)  and 4 years (t4) after surgery  148 patients (47 males (31.8 %)  101 females (68.2 %)  mean age 38.8 ± 10.2 years) were assessed. on average  participants lost 24.6 % of their initial weight 1 year after surgery  25.1 % after 2 years  and 22.3 % after 4 years. statistical analysis revealed significant improvements in depressive symptoms  physical dimension of quality of life  and self-esteem with peak improvements 1 year after surgery. these improvements were largely maintained. significant correlations between weight loss and improvements in depression  physical aspects of hrqol (t2  t3  and t4)  and self-esteem (t3) were observed. corresponding to the considerable weight loss after bariatric surgery  important aspects of mental health improved significantly during the 4-year follow-up period. however  parallel to weight regain  psychological improvements showed a slow but not significant decline over time.
4881,female gender and reproductive factors affecting risk  relapses and progression in multiple sclerosis,multiple sclerosis (ms)  a chronic inflammatory demyelina-ting and degenerative disease of the central nervous system  is a frequent cause of neurological disability in young adults. female predominance has increased over the last decades. although female gender carries a higher risk of developing relapsing remitting ms  being female and at child-bearing age also appears to provide some protection against cognitive decline and against progressive onset ms  an adverse predictive factor when considering long-term disability in ms. the risk of ms in women has been associated with an earlier age at menarche. in most studies  parity did not impact ms risk. however  the recently published association of higher parity and offspring number with a reduced risk of a first demyelinating event suggests a potential suppressive effect. pregnancy in ms patients has been associated with a reduced relapse rate and a reduction of neurological symptoms  especially in the third trimester. despite the increased relapse risk in the postpartum period  there is no indication of an adverse effect of childbirth on the long-term course of ms. fertility treatment in ms has been associated with an increased relapse risk in the following 3-month period  especially when the procedure did not result in pregnancy and gonadotrophin-releasing hormone agonists were used. altogether  there is substantial evidence to support a regulatory role of sex steroid hormones in ms. in the absence of correlations with single hormone blood levels  we can only speculate about the underlying mechanisms. in conclusion  the increased ms risk in women and the changes in relapse and progression risk in association with reproductive events suggest significant and complex interactions between immune  neuroendocrine and reproductive systems in ms.
4883,nephrin mutations cause childhood- and adult-onset focal segmental glomerulosclerosis.,mutations in the nphs1 gene cause congenital nephrotic syndrome of the finnish type presenting before the first 3 months of life. recently  nphs1 mutations have also been identified in childhood-onset steroid-resistant nephrotic syndrome and milder courses of disease  but their role in adults with focal segmental glomerulosclerosis remains unknown. here we developed an in silico scoring matrix to evaluate the pathogenicity of amino-acid substitutions using the biophysical and biochemical difference between wild-type and mutant amino acid  the evolutionary conservation of the amino-acid residue in orthologs  and defined domains  with the addition of contextual information. mutation analysis was performed in 97 patients from 89 unrelated families  of which 52 presented with steroid-resistant nephrotic syndrome after 18 years of age. compound heterozygous or homozygous nphs1 mutations were identified in five familial and seven sporadic cases  including one patient 27 years old at onset of the disease. substitutions were classified as 'severe' or 'mild' using this in silico approach. our results suggest an earlier onset of the disease in patients with two 'severe' mutations compared to patients with at least one 'mild' mutation. the finding of mutations in a patient with adult-onset focal segmental glomerulosclerosis indicates that nphs1 analysis could be considered in patients with later onset of the disease.
4885,association of aspirin and nsaid use with risk of colorectal cancer according to genetic variants.,importance use of aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids) is associated with lower risk of colorectal cancer. objective to identify common genetic markers that may confer differential benefit from aspirin or nsaid chemoprevention  we tested gene × environment interactions between regular use of aspirin and/or nsaids and single-nucleotide polymorphisms (snps) in relation to risk of colorectal cancer. design  setting  and participants case-control study using data from 5 case-control and 5 cohort studies initiated between 1976 and 2003 across the united states  canada  australia  and germany and including colorectal cancer cases (n=8634) and matched controls (n=8553) ascertained between 1976 and 2011. participants were all of european descent. exposures genome-wide snp data and information on regular use of aspirin and/or nsaids and other risk factors. main outcomes and measures colorectal cancer. results regular use of aspirin and/or nsaids was associated with lower risk of colorectal cancer (prevalence  28% vs 38%; odds ratio [or]  0.69 [95% ci  0.64-0.74]; p = 6.2 × 10(-28)) compared with nonregular use. in the conventional logistic regression analysis  the snp rs2965667 at chromosome 12p12.3 near the mgst1 gene showed a genome-wide significant interaction with aspirin and/or nsaid use (p = 4.6 × 10(-9) for interaction). aspirin and/or nsaid use was associated with a lower risk of colorectal cancer among individuals with rs2965667-tt genotype (prevalence  28% vs 38%; or  0.66 [95% ci  0.61-0.70]; p = 7.7 × 10(-33)) but with a higher risk among those with rare (4%) ta or aa genotypes (prevalence  35% vs 29%; or  1.89 [95% ci  1.27-2.81]; p = .002). in case-only interaction analysis  the snp rs16973225 at chromosome 15q25.2 near the il16 gene showed a genome-wide significant interaction with use of aspirin and/or nsaids (p = 8.2 × 10(-9) for interaction). regular use was associated with a lower risk of colorectal cancer among individuals with rs16973225-aa genotype (prevalence  28% vs 38%; or  0.66 [95% ci  0.62-0.71]; p = 1.9 × 10(-30)) but was not associated with risk of colorectal cancer among those with less common (9%) ac or cc genotypes (prevalence  36% vs 39%; or  0.97 [95% ci  0.78-1.20]; p = .76). conclusions and relevance in this genome-wide investigation of gene × environment interactions  use of aspirin and/or nsaids was associated with lower risk of colorectal cancer  and this association differed according to genetic variation at 2 snps at chromosomes 12 and 15. validation of these findings in additional populations may facilitate targeted colorectal cancer prevention strategies.
4887,epithelial and mesenchymal subpopulations within normal basal breast cell lines exhibit distinct stem cell/progenitor properties.,it has been proposed that epithelial-mesenchymal transition (emt) in mammary epithelial cells and breast cancer cells generates stem cell features  and that the presence of emt characteristics in claudin-low breast tumors reveals their origin in basal stem cells. it remains to be determined  however  whether emt is an inherent property of normal basal stem cells  and if the presence of a mesenchymal-like phenotype is required for the maintenance of all their stem cell properties. we used nontumorigenic basal cell lines as models of normal stem cells/progenitors and demonstrate that these cell lines contain an epithelial subpopulation ("epcam+ " epithelial cell adhesion molecule positive [epcam(pos)]/cd49f(high)) that spontaneously generates mesenchymal-like cells ("fibros " epcam(neg)/cd49f(med/low)) through emt. importantly  stem cell/progenitor properties such as regenerative potential  high aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 activity  and formation of three-dimensional acini-like structures predominantly reside within epcam+ cells  while fibros exhibit invasive behavior and mammosphere-forming ability. a gene expression profiling meta-analysis established that epcam+ cells show a luminal progenitor-like expression pattern  while fibros most closely resemble stromal fibroblasts but not stem cells. moreover  fibros exhibit partial myoepithelial traits and strong similarities with claudin-low breast cancer cells. finally  we demonstrate that slug and zeb1 emt-inducers control the progenitor and mesenchymal-like phenotype in epcam+ cells and fibros  respectively  by inhibiting luminal differentiation. in conclusion  nontumorigenic basal cell lines have intrinsic capacity for emt  but a mesenchymal-like phenotype does not correlate with the acquisition of global stem cell/progenitor features. based on our findings  we propose that emt in normal basal cells and claudin-low breast cancers reflects aberrant/incomplete myoepithelial differentiation.
4889,comparative risk of new-onset diabetes mellitus for antihypertensive drugs: a network meta-analysis.,new-onset diabetes mellitus (nod) refers to forms of diabetes mellitus that develop during the therapeutic processes of other diseases such as hypertension. this study has been conducted in a network meta-analysis to compare antihypertensive drugs by identifying both the advantages and disadvantages on nod by focusing on their respective effect rates. odd ratios and corresponding 95% confidence intervals or credible intervals were calculated within pairwise and network meta-analysis. a total of 38 articles with 224 140 patients were included to evaluate the preventive effect of hypertension drugs on nod. from the network meta-analysis it was evident that both angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor as well as angiotensin receptor blocker treatments are associated with a lower risk of developing nod compared with placebo  with ranking probabilities of 79.81% and 72.77%  respectively  while β-blockers and calcium channel blockers may significantly increase the probability of developing nod (β-blockers: odds ratio  2.18 [95% credible intervals: 1.36-3.50]; calcium channel blockers: odds ratio  1.16 [95% credible intervals  1.05-1.29]). in conclusion  angiotensin receptor blockers have an advantage over the other treatments regarding the nod.
4891,psychological treatment of malignant vasovagal syncope due to bloodphobia.,a 17-year-old boy with frequent faints due to blood-injury phobia was studied. during cardiovascular reflex investigation in our syncope unit  50 seconds of asystole were recorded. he was treated using systematic desensitization with muscular tension and cognitive techniques by the pediatric psychosocial department and has not experienced syncopal events again.
4893,recombinant human il-10 prevents the onset of diabetes in the nonobese diabetic mouse.,the role of il-10 in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diabetes mellitus was assessed in the nonobese diabetic (nod) mouse. in these studies the effect of il-10 was determined on three parameters of diabetes: the development of hyperglycemia  the development of insulitis  and the production of insulin by beta cells. initial experiments investigated the effect of anticytokine antibodies on the development of disease. these results indicated that monoclonal anti-ifn-gamma antibody greatly reduced the incidence of hyperglycemia in female nod mice  while anti-il-4  il-5  and il-10 were ineffective. in subsequent studies  daily subcutaneous administration of il-10  a known potent inhibitor of ifn-gamma production by th1 t cells  to 9 and 10-week-old nods was shown to delay the onset of disease and significantly reduce the incidence of diabetes. histopathology performed on pancreatic tissue demonstrated that treatment with il-10 reduced the severity of insulitis  prevented cellular infiltration of islet cells  and promoted normal insulin production by beta cells. taken together these results indicate il-10 suppresses the induction and progression of autoimmune pathogenesis associated with diabetes mellitus and suggest a potential therapeutic role for this cytokine in this autoimmune disease.
4895,exercise blood flow patterns within and among rat muscles after training.,this study was designed to determine the influence of a long-term  moderate-intensity treadmill training program on the distribution of blood flow within and among muscles of rats during exercise. one group (t) of male sprague-dawley rats trained for 1 h/day for 13-17 wk at 30 m/min on a motor-driven treadmill. a second group (ut) of rats was conditioned for 10 min/day for 4 wk at the same speed. muscle succinate dehydrogenase activities were higher in t than ut rats indicating a significant training effect. blood flows (bfs) in 32 hindlimb muscles or muscle parts and other selected organs were measured in the two groups with radiolabeled microspheres during preexercise and while the rats ran for 30 s  5 min  or 15 min at 30 m/min on the treadmill. the data indicate 1) there were no differences in total hindlimb muscle bf between ut and t rats at any time; however  2) t rats had higher preexercise heart rates and higher muscle bfs in the deep red extensor muscles  suggesting a greater anticipatory response to the impending exercise; 3) t rats demonstrated more rapid elevations in bf in the red extensor muscles at the commencement of exercise; 4) t rats had higher bfs in red extensor muscles during exercise  whereas ut rats had higher bfs in white muscles; and 5) t rats maintained higher bfs in the visceral organs during exercise. these findings demonstrate that exercise training results in changes in the distribution of bf within and among muscles and among organs during exercise. specifically  data indicate the high-oxidative motor units that are primarily recruited in the muscles during the initial stages of moderate treadmill exercise receive higher blood flows in the trained rats; this presumably contributes to increased resistance to fatigue.
4897,the nbs1–treacle complex controls ribosomal rna transcription in response to dna damage,chromosome breakage elicits transient silencing of ribosomal rna synthesis  but the mechanisms involved remained elusive. here we discover an in trans signalling mechanism that triggers pan-nuclear silencing of rrna transcription in response to dna damage. this is associated with transient recruitment of the nijmegen breakage syndrome protein 1 (nbs1)  a central regulator of dna damage responses  into the nucleoli. we further identify tcof1 (also known as treacle)  a nucleolar factor implicated in ribosome biogenesis and mutated in treacher collins syndrome  as an interaction partner of nbs1  and demonstrate that nbs1 translocation and accumulation in the nucleoli is treacle dependent. finally  we provide evidence that treacle-mediated nbs1 recruitment into the nucleoli regulates rrna silencing in trans in the presence of distant chromosome breaks.
4899,prevention of coronary heart disease with pravastatin in men with hypercholesterolemia. west of scotland coronary prevention study group.,background lowering the blood cholesterol level may reduce the risk of coronary heart disease. this double-blind study was designed to determine whether the administration of pravastatin to men with hypercholesterolemia and no history of myocardial infarction reduced the combined incidence of nonfatal myocardial infarction and death from coronary heart disease. methods we randomly assigned 6595 men  45 to 64 years of age  with a mean (+/- sd) plasma cholesterol level of 272 +/- 23 mg per deciliter (7.0 +/- 0.6 mmol per liter) to receive pravastatin (40 mg each evening) or placebo. the average follow-up period was 4.9 years. medical records  electrocardiographic recordings  and the national death registry were used to determine the clinical end points. results pravastatin lowered plasma cholesterol levels by 20 percent and low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol levels by 26 percent  whereas there was no change with placebo. there were 248 definite coronary events (specified as nonfatal myocardial infarction or death from coronary heart disease) in the placebo group  and 174 in the pravastatin group (relative reduction in risk with pravastatin  31 percent; 95 percent confidence interval  17 to 43 percent; p < 0.001). there were similar reductions in the risk of definite nonfatal myocardial infarctions (31 percent reduction  p < 0.001)  death from coronary heart disease (definite cases alone: 28 percent reduction  p = 0.13; definite plus suspected cases: 33 percent reduction  p = 0.042)  and death from all cardiovascular causes (32 percent reduction  p = 0.033). there was no excess of deaths from noncardiovascular causes in the pravastatin group. we observed a 22 percent reduction in the risk of death from any cause in the pravastatin group (95 percent confidence interval  0 to 40 percent; p = 0.051). conclusions treatment with pravastatin significantly reduced the incidence of myocardial infarction and death from cardiovascular causes without adversely affecting the risk of death from noncardiovascular causes in men with moderate hypercholesterolemia and no history of myocardial infarction.
4901,defining early lineage specification of human embryonic stem cells by the orchestrated balance of canonical wnt/beta-catenin  activin/nodal and bmp signaling.,the canonical wnt/beta-catenin signaling has remarkably diverse roles in embryonic development  stem cell self-renewal and cancer progression. here  we show that stabilized expression of beta-catenin perturbed human embryonic stem (hes)-cell self-renewal  such that up to 80% of the hes cells developed into the primitive streak (ps)/mesoderm progenitors  reminiscent of early mammalian embryogenesis. the formation of the ps/mesoderm progenitors essentially depended on the cooperative action of beta-catenin together with activin/nodal and bmp signaling pathways. intriguingly  blockade of bmp signaling completely abolished mesoderm generation  and induced a cell fate change towards the anterior ps progenitors. the pi3-kinase/akt  but not mapk  signaling pathway had a crucial role in the anterior ps specification  at least in part  by enhancing beta-catenin stability. in addition  activin/nodal and wnt/beta-catenin signaling synergistically induced the generation and specification of the anterior ps/endoderm. taken together  our findings clearly demonstrate that the orchestrated balance of activin/nodal and bmp signaling defines the cell fate of the nascent ps induced by canonical wnt/beta-catenin signaling in hes cells.
4903,coordination of p300-mediated chromatin remodeling and trap/mediator function through coactivator pgc-1alpha.,transcriptional coactivators showing physical and functional interactions with ppargamma include the protein acetyl transferase p300  the trap/mediator complex that interacts with the general transcription machinery  and the highly regulated pgc-1alpha. we show that pgc-1alpha directly interacts with trap/mediator  through the ppargamma-interacting subunit trap220  and stimulates trap/mediator-dependent function on dna templates. further  while ineffective by itself  pgc-1alpha stimulates p300-dependent histone acetylation and transcription on chromatin templates in response to ppargamma. these functions are mediated by largely independent ppargamma  p300  and trap220 interaction domains in pgc-1alpha  whereas p300 and trap220 show ligand-dependent interactions with a common region of ppargamma. apart from showing pgc-1alpha functions both in chromatin remodeling and in preinitiation complex formation or function (transcription)  these results suggest a key role for pgc-1alpha  through concerted but dynamic interactions  in coordinating these steps.
4905,use of health services by prison inmates: comparisons with the community.,the future organisation of prison health care 1 recommends that the nhs and the prison service work together to plan and provide health care services for prisoners. whereas previously the prison service had this responsibility alone. the nhs will therefore have to take stock of the current level at which prison health care is demanded and provided. a key part of the information base for joint planning therefore includes data on current service utilisation. this paper compares primary care and inpatient health service utilisation data for uk prisoners with health services utilisation data for equivalent community populations. in the community  primary care is provided principally by general practitioners and professions allied to medicine (mostly nurses). residents in the community have access to the full range of nhs outpatient and inpatient facilities. within prisons  primary care is provided by medical officers (some of whom are general practitioners)  nursing grades and health care officers (who have received some training in health care). some prisons have their own inpatient facilities (health care centre beds). these provide a low level of inpatient care and do not have a direct equivalent in the community. prisoners also have access to nhs outpatient and inpatient facilities and to visiting specialists. the prison population has a high turnover and varies from day to day. because of this  the prison population is expressed as an average daily population during a one year period. …
4907,hydrogen sulphide regulates intracellular ph in vascular smooth muscle cells.,we investigated the role of hydrogen sulphide (h(2)s) in intracellular ph (ph(i)) regulation in vascular smooth muscle cells and its contribution on vasodilation. nahs  a h(2)s donor  decreased ph(i) in a concentration-dependent manner ranging from 10 microm to 1mm. neither inhibition of the na(+)/h(+) exchanger with 5-(n-ethyl-n-isopropyl) amiloride  (eipa  10 microm)  nor plasmalemmal ca(2+)-atpase with cdcl(2) (20nm) alters the effect of nahs on ph(i). blockade of the cl(-)/hco3- exchanger with 4 4'-diisothiocyanatostilbene-2 2'-disulfonic acid (dids) significantly attenuated the ph(i) lowering effect of nahs. moreover  nahs significantly increased the activity of cl(-)/hco3- exchanger when measured with nh(4)cl prepulse method. dids attenuated the vasorelaxation induced by nahs whereas eipa and cdcl(2) did not cause any change. in conclusion  h(2)s induced intracellular acidification via activation of cl(-)/hco3- exchanger  which is  at least partially  responsible for h(2)s-mediated vasorelaxation.
4909,the angiotensin ii type 1 receptor blocker olmesartan preferentially improves nocturnal hypertension and proteinuria in chronic kidney disease,accumulated evidence suggests that an altered ambulatory blood pressure (bp) profile  particularly elevated nighttime bp  reflects target organ injury and is a better predictor of further cardiorenal risk than the clinic bp or daytime bp in hypertensive patients complicated by chronic kidney disease (ckd). in this study  we examined the beneficial effects of olmesartan  an angiotensin ii type 1 receptor blocker (arb)  on ambulatory bp profiles and renal function in hypertensive ckd patients. forty-six patients were randomly assigned to the olmesartan add-on group (n=23) or the non-arb group (n=23). at baseline and after the 16-week treatment period  ambulatory bp monitoring was performed and renal function parameter measurements were collected. although the baseline clinic bp levels and the after-treatment/baseline (a/b) ratios of clinic bp levels were similar in the olmesartan add-on and non-arb groups  the a/b ratios of ambulatory 24-h and nighttime bp levels in the olmesartan add-on group were significantly lower. furthermore  the a/b ratios of urinary protein  albumin and type iv collagen excretion in the olmesartan add-on group were significantly lower than those in the non-arb group (urinary protein excretion  0.72±0.41 vs. 1.45±1.48  p=0.030; urinary albumin excretion  0.73±0.37 vs. 1.50±1.37  p=0.005; urinary type iv collagen excretion  0.87±0.42 vs. 1.48±0.87  p=0.014) despite comparable a/b ratios for the estimated glomerular filtration rate in the two groups. these results indicate that in hypertensive patients with ckd  olmesartan add-on therapy improves the ambulatory bp profile via a preferential reduction in nighttime bp with concomitant renal injury inhibition.
4911,kinetics and fidelity of the repair of cas9-induced double-strand dna breaks,the rna-guided dna endonuclease cas9 is a powerful tool for genome editing. little is known about the kinetics and fidelity of the double-strand break (dsb) repair process that follows a cas9 cutting event in living cells. here  we developed a strategy to measure the kinetics of dsb repair for single loci in human cells. quantitative modeling of repaired dna in time series after cas9 activation reveals variable and often slow repair rates  with half-life times up to ∼10 hr. furthermore  repair of the dsbs tends to be error prone. both classical and microhomology-mediated end joining pathways contribute to the erroneous repair. estimation of their individual rate constants indicates that the balance between these two pathways changes over time and can be altered by additional ionizing radiation. our approach provides quantitative insights into dsb repair kinetics and fidelity in single loci and indicates that cas9-induced dsbs are repaired in an unusual manner.
4913,liver transplantation and opioid dependence.,contextchronic hepatitis c is the leading cause for liver transplantation in the united states. intravenous drug use  the major risk factor  accounts for approximately 60% of hepatitis c virus transmission. information from the united network of organ sharing (unos) does not address substance use among liver transplantation patients. objectiveto identify addiction-related criteria for admission to the unos liver transplantation waiting list and posttransplantation problems experienced by patients who are prescribed maintenance methadone. design  setting  and participantsmail survey of all 97 adult us liver transplantation programs (belonging to unos) in march 2000 with telephone follow-up conducted in may and june 2000.main outcome measuresprograms' acceptance and management of patients with past or present substance use disorder. resultsof the 97 programs surveyed  87 (90%) responded. all accept applicants with a history of alcoholism or other addictions  including heroin dependence. eighty-eight percent of the responding programs require at least 6 months of abstinence from alcohol; 83% from illicit drugs. ninety-four percent have addiction treatment requirements. consultations from substance abuse specialists are obtained by 86%. patients receiving methadone maintenance are accepted by 56% of the responding programs. approximately 180 patients receiving methadone maintenance are reported to have undergone liver transplantation. conclusionsmost liver transplantation programs have established policies for patients with substance use disorders. opiate-dependent patients receiving opiate replacement therapy seem underrepresented in transplantation programs. little anecdotal evidence for negative impact of opiate replacement therapy on liver transplantation outcome was found. policies requiring discontinuation of methadone in 32% of all programs contradict the evidence base for efficacy of long-term replacement therapies and potentially result in relapse of previously stable patients.
4915,in-hospital switching between adenosine diphosphate receptor inhibitors in patients with acute myocardial infarction treated with percutaneous coronary intervention: insights into contemporary practice from the translate-acs study.,aims while randomized clinical trials have compared clopidogrel with higher potency adenosine diphosphate (adp) receptor inhibitors among patients with acute myocardial infarction  little is known about the frequency  effectiveness and safety of switching between adp receptor inhibitors in routine clinical practice. methods and results we studied 11 999 myocardial infarction patients treated with percutaneous coronary intervention at 230 hospitals from april 2010 to october 2012 in the translate-acs study. multivariable cox regression was used to compare six-month post-discharge risks of major adverse cardiovascular events (mace: death  myocardial infarction  stroke  or unplanned revascularization) and global utilization of streptokinase and t-pa for occluded coronary arteries (gusto)-defined bleeding between in-hospital adp receptor inhibitor switching versus continuation of the initially selected therapy. among 8715 patients treated initially with clopidogrel  994 (11.4%) were switched to prasugrel or ticagrelor; switching occurred primarily after percutaneous coronary intervention (60.9%) and at the time of hospital discharge (26.7%). among 3284 patients treated initially with prasugrel or ticagrelor  448 (13.6%) were switched to clopidogrel; 48.2% of switches occurred after percutaneous coronary intervention and 48.0% at hospital discharge. switching to prasugrel or ticagrelor was not associated with increased bleeding when compared with continuation on clopidogrel (2.7% vs. 3.3%  adjusted hazard ratio 0.96  95% confidence interval 0.64-1.42  p=0.82). switching from prasugrel or ticagrelor to clopidogrel was not associated with increased mace (8.9% vs. 7.7%  adjusted hazard ratio 1.06  95% confidence interval 0.75-1.49  p=0.76) when compared with continuation on the higher potency agent. conclusions in-hospital adp receptor inhibitor switching occurs in more than one in 10 myocardial infarction patients in contemporary practice. in this observational study  adp receptor inhibitor switching does not appear to be significantly associated with increased hazard of mace or bleeding.
4917,nicotinic receptor-mediated neuroprotection in neurodegenerative disease models.,multiple lines of evidence  from molecular and cellular to epidemiological  have implicated nicotinic transmission in the pathology of alzheimer's disease (ad) and parkinson's disease (pd). this review article presents evidence for nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nachr)-mediated protection and the signal transduction involved in this mechanism. the data is based mainly on our studies using rat-cultured primary neurons. nicotine-induced protection was blocked by an alpha7 nachr antagonist  a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (pi3k) inhibitor  and an src inhibitor. levels of phosphorylated akt  an effector of pi3k  bcl-2 and bcl-x were increased by nicotine administration. from these experimental data  our hypothesis for the mechanism of nachr-mediated survival signal transduction is that the alpha7 nachr stimulates the src family  which activates pi3k to phosphorylate akt  which subsequently transmits the signal to up-regulate bcl-2 and bcl-x. up-regulation of bcl-2 and bcl-x could prevent cells from neuronal death induced by beta-amyloid (abeta)  glutamate and rotenone. these findings suggest that protective therapy with nachr stimulation could delay the progress of neurodegenerative diseases such as ad and pd.
4919,keratinocyte-specific transglutaminase of cultured human epidermal cells: relation to cross-linked envelope formation and terminal differentiation.,the predominant form of the cross-linking enzyme  transglutaminase  in cultured normal human epidermal keratinocytes  is found in cell particulate material and can be solubilized by nonionic detergent. it elutes as a single peak upon either anion-exchange or gel-filtration chromatography. monoclonal antibodies raised to the particulate enzyme cross-react with one of two transglutaminases in the cell cytosol. the second cytosolic transglutaminase  which has distinct kinetic and physical properties from the first  does not cross-react and is not essential for formation of the keratinocyte cross-linked envelope in vitro. the anti-transglutaminase antibodies stain the more differentiated layers of epidermis in a pattern similar to that given by anti-involucrin antiserum. these observations support the hypothesis that the transglutaminase so identified is involved in cross-linked envelope formation in vivo.
4921,immune activation and hiv persistence: implications for curative approaches to hiv infection.,despite complete or near-complete suppression of human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) replication with combination antiretroviral therapy  both hiv and chronic inflammation/immune dysfunction persist indefinitely. untangling the association between the virus and the host immune environment during therapy might lead to novel interventions aimed at either curing the infection or preventing the development of inflammation-associated end-organ disease. chronic inflammation and immune dysfunction might lead to hiv persistence by causing virus production  generating new target cells  enabling infecting of activated and resting target cells  altering the migration patterns of susceptible target cells  increasing the proliferation of infected cells  and preventing normal hiv-specific clearance mechanisms from function. chronic hiv production or replication might contribute to persistent inflammation and immune dysfunction. the rapidly evolving data on these issues strongly suggest that a vicious cycle might exist in which hiv persistence causes inflammation that in turn contributes to hiv persistence.
4923,delays in the diagnosis of lung cancer.,background many patients with lung cancer report delays in diagnosing their disease. this may contribute to advanced stage at diagnosis and poor long term survival. this study explores the delays experienced by patients referred to a regional cancer centre with lung cancer. methods a prospective cohort of patients referred with newly diagnosed lung cancer were surveyed over a 3 month period to assess delays in diagnosis. patients were asked when they first experienced symptoms  saw their doctor  what tests were done  when they saw a specialist and when they started treatment. descriptive statistics were used to summarize the different time intervals. results 56 of 73 patients consented (rr 77%). however only 52 patients (30m  22f) were interviewed as 2 died before being interviewed and two could not be contacted. the mean age was 68yrs. stage distribution was as follows (ib/iia 10%  stage iiia 20%  iiib/iv 70%). patients waited a median of 21 days (iqr 7-51d) before seeing a doctor and a further 22d (iqr 0-38d) to complete any investigations. the median time from presentation to specialist referral was 27d (iqr 12-49d) and a further 23.5d (iqr 10-56d) to complete investigations. the median wait to start treatment once patients were seen at the cancer centre was 10d (iqr 2-28d). the overall time from development of first symptoms to starting treatment was 138d (iqr 79-175d). conclusions lung cancer patients experience substantial delays from development of symptoms to first initiating treatment. there is a need to promote awareness of lung cancer symptoms and develop and evaluate rapid assessment clinics for patients with suspected lung cancers.
4925,most clinical tests cannot accurately diagnose rotator cuff pathology: a systematic review.,question do clinical tests accurately diagnose rotator cuff pathology? design a systematic review of investigations into the diagnostic accuracy of clinical tests for rotator cuff pathology. participants people with shoulder pain who underwent clinical testing in order to diagnose rotator cuff pathology. outcome measures the diagnostic accuracy of clinical tests was determined using likelihood ratios. results thirteen studies met the inclusion criteria. the 13 studies evaluated 14 clinical tests in 89 separate evaluations of diagnostic accuracy. only one evaluation  palpation for supraspinatus ruptures  resulted in significant positive and negative likelihood ratios. eight of the 89 evaluations resulted in either significant positive or negative likelihood ratios. however  none of these eight positive or negative likelihood ratios were found in other studies. of the 89 evaluations of clinical tests 71 (80%) did not result in either significant positive or negative likelihood ratio evaluations across different studies. conclusion overall  most tests for rotator cuff pathology were inaccurate and cannot be recommended for clinical use. at best  suspicion of a rotator cuff tear may be heightened by a positive palpation  combined hawkins/painful arc/infraspinatus test  napoleon test  lift-off test  belly-press test  or drop-arm test  and it may be reduced by a negative palpation  empty can test or hawkins-kennedy test.
4927,risk of hospitalization or death from ischemic heart disease among british vegetarians and nonvegetarians: results from the epic-oxford cohort study.,background few previous prospective studies have examined differences in incident ischemic heart disease (ihd) risk between vegetarians and nonvegetarians. objective the objective was to examine the association of a vegetarian diet with risk of incident (nonfatal and fatal) ihd. design a total of 44 561 men and women living in england and scotland who were enrolled in the european prospective investigation into cancer and nutrition (epic)-oxford study  of whom 34% consumed a vegetarian diet at baseline  were part of the analysis. incident cases of ihd were identified through linkage with hospital records and death certificates. serum lipids and blood pressure measurements were available for 1519 non cases  who were matched to ihd cases by sex and age. ihd risk by vegetarian status was estimated by using multivariate cox proportional hazards models. results after an average follow-up of 11.6 y  there were 1235 ihd cases (1066 hospital admissions and 169 deaths). compared with nonvegetarians  vegetarians had a lower mean bmi [in kg/m(2); -1.2 (95% ci: -1.3  -1.1)]  non-hdl-cholesterol concentration [-0.45 (95% ci: -0.60  -0.30) mmol/l]  and systolic blood pressure [-3.3 (95% ci: -5.9  -0.7) mm hg]. vegetarians had a 32% lower risk (hr: 0.68; 95% ci: 0.58  0.81) of ihd than did nonvegetarians  which was only slightly attenuated after adjustment for bmi and did not differ materially by sex  age  bmi  smoking  or the presence of ihd risk factors. conclusion consuming a vegetarian diet was associated with lower ihd risk  a finding that is probably mediated by differences in non-hdl cholesterol  and systolic blood pressure.
4929,redox-relevant aspects of the extracellular matrix and its cellular contacts via integrins.,significance the extracellular matrix (ecm) fulfills essential functions in multicellular organisms. it provides the mechanical scaffold and environmental cues to cells. upon cell attachment  the ecm signals into the cells. in this process  reactive oxygen species (ros) are physiologically used as signalizing molecules. recent advances ecm attachment influences the ros-production of cells. in turn  ros affect the production  assembly and turnover of the ecm during wound healing and matrix remodeling. pathological changes of ros levels lead to excess ecm production and increased tissue contraction in fibrotic disorders and desmoplastic tumors. integrins are cell adhesion molecules which mediate cell adhesion and force transmission between cells and the ecm. they have been identified as a target of redox-regulation by ros. cysteine-based redox-modifications  together with structural data  highlighted particular regions within integrin heterodimers that may be subject to redox-dependent conformational changes along with an alteration of integrin binding activity. critical issues in a molecular model  a long-range disulfide-bridge within the integrin β-subunit and disulfide bridges within the genu and calf-2 domains of the integrin α-subunit may control the transition between the bent/inactive and upright/active conformation of the integrin ectodomain. these thiol-based intramolecular cross-linkages occur in the stalk domain of both integrin subunits  whereas the ligand-binding integrin headpiece is apparently unaffected by redox-regulation. future directions redox-regulation of the integrin activation state may explain the effect of ros in physiological processes. a deeper understanding of the underlying mechanism may open new prospects for the treatment of fibrotic disorders.
4931,increased short- and long-term risk of inflammatory bowel disease after salmonella or campylobacter gastroenteritis.,background & aims various commensal enteric and potentially pathogenic bacteria may be involved in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel diseases (ibd). we compared the risk of ibd between a cohort of patients with documented salmonella or campylobacter gastroenteritis and an age- and gender-matched control group from the same population in denmark. methods we identified 13 324 patients with salmonella/campylobacter gastroenteritis from laboratory registries in north jutland and aarhus counties  denmark  from 1991 through 2003  and 26 648 unexposed controls from the same counties. of these  176 exposed patients with ibd before the infection  their 352 unexposed controls  and 80 unexposed individuals with ibd before the salmonella/campylobacter infection were excluded. the final study cohort of 13 148 exposed and 26 216 unexposed individuals were followed for up to 15 years (mean  7.5 years). results a first-time diagnosis of ibd was reported in 107 exposed (1.2%) and 73 unexposed individuals (0.5%). by age  gender  and comorbidity adjusted cox proportional hazards regression analysis  the hazard ratio (95% confidence interval) for ibd was 2.9 (2.2-3.9) for the whole period and 1.9 (1.4-2.6) if the first year after the salmonella/campylobacter infection was excluded. the increased risk in exposed subjects was observed throughout the 15-year observation period. the increased risk was similar for salmonella (n = 6463) and campylobacter (n = 6685) and for a first-time diagnosis of crohn's disease (n = 47) and ulcerative colitis (n = 133). conclusions in our population-based cohort study with complete follow-up  an increased risk of ibd was demonstrated in individuals notified in laboratory registries with an episode of salmonella/campylobacter gastroenteritis.
4933,effect of lipid restriction on mitochondrial free radical production and oxidative dna damage.,many studies have shown that caloric restriction (40%) decreases mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ros) generation in rodents. moreover  we have recently found that 7 weeks of 40% protein restriction without strong caloric restriction also decreases ros production in rat liver. this is interesting since it has been reported that protein restriction can also extend longevity in rodents. in the present study we have investigated the possible role of dietary lipids in the effects of caloric restriction on mitochondrial oxidative stress. using semipurified diets  the ingestion of lipids in male wistar rats was decreased by 40% below controls  while the other dietary components were ingested at exactly the same level as in animals fed ad libitum. after 7 weeks of treatment the liver mitochondria of lipid-restricted animals showed significant increases in oxygen consumption with complex i-linked substrates (pyruvate/malate and glutamate/malate). neither mitochondrial h(2)o(2) production nor oxidative damage to mitochondrial or nuclear dna was modified in lipid-restricted animals. oxidative damage to mitochondrial dna was one order of magnitude higher than that of nuclear dna in both dietary groups. these results deny a role for lipids and reinforce the possible role of dietary proteins as being responsible for the decrease in mitochondrial ros production and dna damage in caloric restriction.
4935,simian immunodeficiency viruses replication dynamics in african non-human primate hosts: common patterns and species-specific differences.,methods to define potential common features of simian immunodeficiency virus (siv) infections in different naturally infected host species  we compared the dynamics of viral replication in 31 african green monkeys (10 sabeus  15 vervets and seven caribbean agms)  14 mandrills and three sooty mangabeys (sms) that were experimentally infected with their species-specific viruses. results after infection  these sivs replicated rapidly reaching viral loads (vls) of 10(5)-10(9) copies/ml of plasma between days 9-14 post-infection (p.i). set point viremia was established between days 42 and 60 p.i.  with levels of approximately 10(5)-10(6) copies/ml in sm and mandrills  and lower levels (10(3)-10(5) copies/ml) in agms. vl during the chronic phase did not correlate with viral genome structure: sivmnd-2 (a vpx-containing virus) and sivmnd-1 (which does not contain vpu or vpx) replicated to similar levels in mandrills. vl was dependent on virus strain: vervets infected with three different viral strains showed different patterns of viral replication. the pattern of viral replication of sivagm.sab  which uses both ccr5 and cxcr4 co-receptors was similar to those of the other viruses. conclusions our results show a common pattern of siv replication in naturally and experimentally infected hosts. this is similar overall to that observed in pathogenic siv infection of macaques. this result indicates that differences in clinical outcome between pathogenic and non-pathogenic infections rely on host responses rather than the characteristics of the virus itself.
4937,implementation of contemporary oral antiplatelet treatment guidelines in patients with acute coronary syndrome undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention: a report from the greek antiplatelet registry (grape).,background few data exist about the implementation of contemporary oral antiplatelet treatment guidelines in patients with acute coronary syndrome (acs) undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (pci). methods greek antiplatelet registry (grape)  initiated on january 2012  is a prospective  observational  multicenter cohort study focusing on contemporary use of p2y12 inhibitors. in 1434 patients we evaluated appropriateness of p2y12 selection initially and at discharge by applying an eligibility-assessing algorithm based on p2y12 inhibitors' contraindications/specific warnings and precautions. results appropriate  less preferable and inappropriate p2y12 inhibitor selections were made initially in 45.8%  47.2% and 6.6% and at discharge in 64.1%  29.2% and 6.6% of patients  respectively. the selection of clopidogrel was most commonly less preferable  both initially (69.7%) and at discharge (75.6%). appropriate selection of newer agents was high initially (79.2%-82.8%)  with further increase as selection at discharge (89.4%-89.8%). inappropriate selection of the newer agents was 17.2%-20.8% initially  decreasing to 10.2%-10.6% at discharge. conditions and co-medications related to increased bleeding risk  presentation with st elevation myocardial infarction and the absence of reperfusion within the first 24h were the most powerful predictors of appropriate p2y12 selection initially  whereas age ≥75 years  conditions and co-medications related to increased bleeding risk and regional trends mostly affected appropriate p2y12 selection at discharge. conclusions in grape  adherence with the recently released guidelines on oral antiplatelet therapy was satisfactory. clopidogrel was most commonly used as a less preferable selection  while prasugrel or ticagrelor selection was mostly appropriate. certain factors may predict initial and at discharge guideline implementation. clinical trial registration-clinicaltrials.gov identifier: nct01774955 http://clinicaltrials.gov/.
4939,the precursor form of il-1alpha is an intracrine proinflammatory activator of transcription.,although most cytokines are studied for biological effects after engagement of their specific cell surface membrane receptors  increasing evidence suggests that some function in the nucleus. in the present study  the precursor form of il-1alpha was overexpressed in various cells and assessed for activity in the presence of saturating concentrations of il-1 receptor antagonist to prevent receptor signaling. initially diffusely present in the cytoplasm of resting cells  il-1alpha translocated to the to nucleus after activation by endotoxin  a toll-like receptor ligand. the il-1alpha precursor  but not the c-terminal mature form  activated the transcriptional machinery in the gal4 system by 90-fold; a 50-fold increase was observed using only the il-1alpha propiece  suggesting that transcriptional activation was localized to the n terminus where the nuclear localization sequence resides. under conditions of il-1 receptor blockade  intracellular overexpression of the precursor and propiece forms of il-1alpha were sufficient to activate nf-kappab and ap-1. stable transfectants overproducing precursor il-1alpha released the cytokines il-8 and il-6 but also exhibited a significantly lower threshold of activation to subpicomolar concentrations of tumor necrosis factor alpha or ifn-gamma. thus  intracellular functions of il-1alpha might play an unforeseen role in the genesis of inflammation. during disease-driven events  the cytosolic precursor moves to the nucleus  where it augments transcription of proinflammatory genes. because this mechanism of action is not affected by extracellular inhibitors  reducing intracellular functions of il-1alpha might prove beneficial in some inflammatory conditions.
4941,concurrent endometrial carcinoma in women with a biopsy diagnosis of atypical endometrial hyperplasia: a gynecologic oncology group study.,background adenocarcinoma of the endometrium is the most common gynecologic malignancy in the united states  accounting for approximately 36 000 diagnoses of invasive carcinoma annually. the most common histologic type  endometrioid adenocarcinoma (ec)  accounts for 75-80% of patients. the objective of this work was to estimate the prevalence of concurrent carcinoma in women with a biopsy diagnosis of the precursor lesion  atypical endometrial hyperplasia (aeh). methods this prospective cohort study included women who had a community diagnosis of aeh. diagnostic biopsy specimens were reviewed independently by three gynecologic pathologists who used international society of gynecologic pathologists/world health organization criteria. study participants underwent hysterectomy within 12 weeks of entry onto protocol without interval treatment. the hysterectomy slides also were reviewed by the study pathologists  and their findings were used in the subsequent analyses. results between november 1998 and june 2003  306 women were enrolled on the study. of these  17 women were not included in the analysis: two patients had unreadable slides because of poor processing or insufficient tissue  2 patients had only slides that were not endometrial  the slides for 5 patients were not available for review  and 8 of the hysterectomy specimens were excluded because they showed evidence of interval intervention  either progestin effect or ablation. in total  289 patients were included in the current analysis. the study panel review of the aeh biopsy specimens was interpreted as follows: 74 of 289 specimens (25.6%) were diagnosed as less than aeh  115 of 289 specimens (39.8%) were diagnosed as aeh  and 84 of 289 specimens (29.1%) were diagnosed as endometrial carcinoma. in 5.5% (16 of 289 specimens)  there was no consensus on the biopsy diagnosis. the rate of concurrent endometrial carcinoma for analyzed specimens was 42.6% (123 of 289 specimens). of these  30.9% (38 of 123 specimens) were myoinvasive  and 10.6% (13 of 123 specimens) involved the outer 50% of the myometrium. among the women who had hysterectomy specimens with carcinoma  14 of 74 women (18.9%) had a study panel biopsy consensus diagnosis of less than aeh  45 of 115 women (39.1%) had a study panel biopsy consensus diagnosis of aeh  and 54 of 84 women (64.3%) had a study panel diagnosis of carcinoma. among women who had no consensus in their biopsy diagnosis  10 of 16 women (62.5%) had carcinoma in their hysterectomy specimens. conclusions the prevalence of endometrial carcinoma in patients who had a community hospital biopsy diagnosis of aeh was high (42.6%). when considering management strategies for women who have a biopsy diagnosis of aeh  clinicians and patients should take into account the considerable rate of concurrent carcinoma.
4943,cutting edge: interleukin 17 signals through a heteromeric receptor complex.,il-17 is an inflammatory cytokine produced primarily by a unique lineage of cd4 t cells that plays critical roles in the pathogenesis of multiple autoimmune diseases. il-17ra is a ubiquitously expressed receptor that is essential for il-17 biologic activity. despite widespread receptor expression  the activity of il-17 is most classically defined by its ability to induce the expression of inflammatory cytokines  chemokines  and other mediators by stromal cells. the lack of il-17 responsiveness in mouse stromal cells genetically deficient in il-17ra is poorly complemented by human il-17ra  suggesting the presence of an obligate ancillary component whose activity is species specific. this component is il-17rc  a distinct member of the il-17r family. thus  the biologic activity of il-17 is dependent on a complex composed of il-17ra and il-17rc  suggesting a new paradigm for understanding the interactions between the expanded family of il-17 ligands and their receptors.
4945,olanzapine depot exposure in male rats: dose-dependent lipogenic effects without concomitant weight gain.,treatment with second-generation antipsychotic agents such as olanzapine frequently results in metabolic adverse effects  e.g. hyperphagia  weight gain and dyslipidaemia in patients of both genders. the molecular mechanisms underlying metabolic adverse effects are still largely unknown  and studies in rodents represent an important approach in their exploration. however  the validity of the rodent model is hampered by the fact that antipsychotics induce weight gain in female  but not male  rats. when administered orally  the short half-life of olanzapine in rats prevents stable plasma concentrations of the drug. we recently showed that a single intramuscular injection of long-acting olanzapine formulation yields clinically relevant plasma concentrations accompanied by several dysmetabolic features in the female rat. in the current study  we show that depot injections of 100-250 mg/kg olanzapine yielded clinically relevant plasma olanzapine concentrations also in male rats. in spite of transient hyperphagia  however  olanzapine resulted in weight loss rather than weight gain. the resultant negative feed efficiency was accompanied by a slight elevation of thermogenesis markers in brown adipose tissue for the highest olanzapine dose  but the olanzapine-related reduction in weight gain remains to be explained. in spite of the absence of weight gain  an olanzapine dose of 200mg/kg or above induced significantly elevated plasma cholesterol levels and pronounced activation of lipogenic gene expression in the liver. these results confirm that olanzapine stimulates lipogenic effects  independent of weight gain  and raise the possibility that endocrine factors may influence gender specificity of metabolic effects of antipsychotics in the rat.
4947,intracellular sterol dynamics.,we review the cellular mechanisms implicated in cholesterol trafficking and distribution. recent studies have provided new information about the distribution of sterols within cells  including analysis of its transbilayer distribution. the cholesterol interaction with other lipids and its engagement in various trafficking processes will determine its proper level in a specific membrane; making the cholesterol distribution uneven among the various intracellular organelles. the cholesterol content is important since cholesterol plays an essential role in membranes by controlling their physicochemical properties as well as key cellular events such as signal transduction and protein trafficking. cholesterol movement between cellular organelles is highly dynamic  and can be achieved by vesicular and non-vesicular processes. various studies have analyzed the proteins that play a significant role in these processes  giving us new information about the relative importance of these two trafficking pathways in cholesterol transport. although still poorly characterized in many trafficking routes  several potential sterol transport proteins have been described in detail; as a result  molecular mechanisms for sterol transport among membranes start to be appreciated.
4949,resequencing studies of nonmodel organisms using closely related reference genomes: optimal experimental designs and bioinformatics approaches for population genomics.,decreasing costs of next-generation sequencing (ngs) experiments have made a wide range of genomic questions open for study with nonmodel organisms. however  experimental designs and analysis of ngs data from less well-known species are challenging because of the lack of genomic resources. in this work  we investigate the performance of alternative experimental designs and bioinformatics approaches in estimating variability and neutrality tests based on the site-frequency-spectrum (sfs) from individual resequencing data. we pay particular attention to challenges faced in the study of nonmodel organisms  in particular the absence of a species-specific reference genome  although phylogenetically close genomes are assumed to be available. we compare the performance of three alternative bioinformatics approaches – genotype calling  genotype–haplotype calling and direct estimation without calling genotypes. we find that relying on genotype calls provides biased estimates of population genetic statistics at low to moderate read depth (2–8x). genotype–haplotype calling returns more accurate estimates irrespective of the divergence to the reference genome  but requires moderate depth (8–20x). direct estimation without calling genotypes returns the most accurate estimates of variability and of most sfs tests investigated  including at low read depth (2–4x). studies without species-specific reference genome should thus aim for low read depth and avoid genotype calling whenever individual genotypes are not essential. otherwise  aiming for moderate to high depth at the expense of number of individuals  and using genotype–haplotype calling  is recommended.
4951,endocrine control of spermatogenesis: role of fsh and lh/ testosterone.,evaluation of testicular functions (production of sperm and androgens) is an important aspect of preclinical safety assessment and testicular toxicity is comparatively far more common than ovarian toxicity. this chapter focuses (1) on the histological sequelae of disturbed reproductive endocrinology in rat  dog and nonhuman primates and (2) provides a review of our current understanding of the roles of gonadotropins and androgens. the response of the rodent testis to endocrine disturbances is clearly different from that of dog and primates with different germ cell types and spermatogenic stages being affected initially and also that the end-stage spermatogenic involution is more pronounced in dog and primates compared to rodents. luteinizing hormone (lh)/testosterone and follicle-stimulating hormone (fsh) are the pivotal endocrine factors controlling testicular functions. the relative importance of either hormone is somewhat different between rodents and primates. generally  however  both lh/testosterone and fsh are necessary for quantitatively normal spermatogenesis  at least in non-seasonal species.
4953,nonstructural protein 3-4a: the swiss army knife of hepatitis c virus.,hepatitis c virus (hcv) nonstructural protein 3-4a (ns3-4a) is a complex composed of ns3 and its cofactor ns4a. it harbours serine protease as well as ntpase/rna helicase activities and is essential for viral polyprotein processing  rna replication and virion formation. specific inhibitors of the ns3-4a protease significantly improve sustained virological response rates in patients with chronic hepatitis c when combined with pegylated interferon-α and ribavirin. the ns3-4a protease can also target selected cellular proteins  thereby blocking innate immune pathways and modulating growth factor signalling. hence  ns3-4a is not only an essential component of the viral replication complex and prime target for antiviral intervention but also a key player in the persistence and pathogenesis of hcv. this review provides a concise update on the biochemical and structural aspects of ns3-4a  its role in the pathogenesis of chronic hepatitis c and the clinical development of ns3-4a protease inhibitors.
4955,reduction in skin grafting after the introduction of hydrofiber dressings in partial thickness burns: a comparison between a hydrofiber and silver sulphadiazine.,aim/purpose the aim of this study was to compare clinical outcome of children with scald burns treated with a hydrofiber dressing (aquacel(®)  convatec inc.) with the former standard of care with silver sulfadiazine (flammazine(®); solvay pharmaceuticals)  considering surgical intervention and length of stay (los). methods a retrospective study of all consecutive children from zero to four years with primary scald burns up to 10% admitted to the burn centre of the maasstad hospital rotterdam between january 1987 and january 2010 were reviewed. for data collection a prospective computerized database was used. for comparison the study period was divided into two periods representing the period before and after the introduction of the hydrofiber dressing (hfd)  respectively 1987-1999 (period 1) and 1999-2010 (period 2). results over the whole study period 27.3% of 502 patients treated with silver sulfadiazine (ag-sd) underwent surgery  while before the introduction of hfd 30.5% of 338 ag-sd treated patients were operated upon. after the introduction of the hfd 20.7% of 164 patients treated with ag-sd eventually underwent skin grafting  a significant difference with the 11.6% of 302 patients whose wounds were dressed with hfd (p<0.01). conclusions compared to silver sulfadiazine treatment a reduced number of surgical interventions was observed in mixed partial thickness scald burns up to 10% tbsa burned in children aged 0-4 years after the introduction of hydrofiber dressings. the mode of treatment with this wound dressing also limited hospital length of stay.
4957,candida albicans-staphylococcus aureus polymicrobial peritonitis modulates host innate immunity.,despite advances in medical device fabrication and antimicrobial treatment therapies  fungal-bacterial polymicrobial peritonitis remains a serious complication for surgery patients  those on peritoneal dialysis  and the critically ill. using a murine model of peritonitis  we have demonstrated that monomicrobial infection with candida albicans or staphylococcus aureus is nonlethal. however  coinfection with these same doses leads to a 40% mortality rate and increased microbial burden in the spleen and kidney by day 1 postinfection. using a multiplex enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay  we have also identified a unique subset of innate proinflammatory cytokines (interleukin-6  granulocyte colony-stimulating factor  keratinocyte chemoattractant  monocyte chemoattractant protein-1  and macrophage inflammatory protein-1α) that are significantly increased during polymicrobial versus monomicrobial peritonitis  leading to increased inflammatory infiltrate into the peritoneum and target organs. treatment of coinfected mice with the cyclooxygenase (cox) inhibitor indomethacin reduces the infectious burden  proinflammatory cytokine production  and inflammatory infiltrate while simultaneously preventing any mortality. further experiments demonstrated that the immunomodulatory eicosanoid prostaglandin e2 (pge2) is synergistically increased during coinfection compared to monomicrobial infection; indomethacin treatment also decreased elevated pge2 levels. furthermore  addition of exogenous pge2 into the peritoneal cavity during infection overrode the protection provided by indomethacin and restored the increased mortality and microbial burden. importantly  these studies highlight the ability of fungal-bacterial coinfection to modulate innate inflammatory events with devastating consequences to the host.
4959,requirement of c-myb in t cell development and in mature t cell function.,previous reports have suggested that the protooncogene c-myb participates in t cell development in the thymus and mature t cell proliferation. we have generated two t cell-specific c-myb knockout mouse models  myb/lckcre and myb/cd4cre. we have demonstrated that c-myb is required for the development of thymocytes at the dn3 stage  for survival and proliferation of double-positive thymocytes  for differentiation of single-positive cd4 and cd8 t cells  and for the proliferative responses of mature t cells. in addition  our data show that c-myb is directly involved in the formation of double-positive cd4+cd8+cd25+  cd4+cd25+  and cd8+cd25+ t cells  developmental processes that may imply a role for c-myb in autoimmune dysfunction.
4961,interleukin-17 mrna expression in blood and csf mononuclear cells is augmented in multiple sclerosis.,myelin-directed autoimmunity is considered to play a key role in the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis (ms). increased production of both pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines is a common finding in ms. interleukin-17 (il-17) is a recently described cytokine produced in humans almost exclusively by activated memory t cells  which can induce the production of proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines from parenchymal cells and macrophages. in situ hybridisation with synthetic oligonucleotide probes was adopted to detect and enumerate il-17 mrna expressing mononuclear cells (mnc) in blood and cerebrospinal fluid (csf) from patients with ms and control individuals. numbers of il-17 mrna expressing blood mnc were higher in patients with ms and acute aseptic meningoencephalitis (am) compared to healthy individuals. higher numbers of il-17 mrna expressing blood mnc were detected in ms patients examined during clinical exacerbation compared to remission. patients with ms had higher numbers of il-17 mrna expressing mnc in csf compared to blood. this increase in numbers of il-17 mrna expressing mnc in csf was not observed in patients with am. our results thus demonstrate increased numbers of il-17 mrna expressing mnc in ms with higher numbers in csf than blood  and with the highest numbers in blood during clinical exacerbations.
4963,the cost of providing comprehensive hiv treatment in pepfar-supported programs.,background pepfar  national governments  and other stakeholders are investing unprecedented resources to provide hiv treatment in developing countries. this study reports empirical data on costs and cost trends in a large sample of hiv treatment sites. design in 2006-2007  we conducted cost analyses at 43 pepfar-supported outpatient clinics providing free comprehensive hiv treatment in botswana  ethiopia  nigeria  uganda  and vietnam. methods we collected data on hiv treatment costs over consecutive 6-month periods starting from scale-up of dedicated hiv treatment services at each site. the study included all patients receiving hiv treatment and care at study sites [62 512 antiretroviral therapy (art) and 44 394 pre-art patients]. outcomes were costs per patient and total program costs  subdivided by major cost categories. results median annual economic costs were us$ 202 (2009 usd) for pre-art patients and us$ 880 for art patients. excluding antiretrovirals  per patient art costs were us$ 298. care for newly initiated art patients cost 15-20% more than for established patients. per patient costs dropped rapidly as sites matured  with per patient art costs dropping 46.8% between first and second 6-month periods after the beginning of scale-up  and an additional 29.5% the following year. pepfar provided 79.4% of funding for service delivery  and national governments provided 15.2%. conclusion treatment costs vary widely between sites  and high early costs drop rapidly as sites mature. treatment costs vary between countries and respond to changes in antiretroviral regimen costs and the package of services. whereas cost reductions may allow near-term program growth  programs need to weigh the trade-off between improving services for current patients and expanding coverage to new patients.
4965,unmet need for mental health care among u.s. children: variation by ethnicity and insurance status.,objective policy discussions regarding the mental health needs of children and adolescents emphasize a lack of use of mental health services among youth  but few national estimates are available. the authors use three national data sets and examine ethnic disparities in unmet need (defined as having a need for mental health evaluation but not using any services in a 1-year period) to provide such estimates. method the authors conducted secondary data analyses in three nationally representative household surveys fielded in 1996-1998: the national health interview survey  the national survey of american families  and the community tracking survey. they determined rates of mental health service use by children and adolescents 3-17 years of age and differences by ethnicity and insurance status. among the children defined as in need of mental health services  defined by an estimator of mental health problems (selected items from the child behavior checklist)  they examined the association of unmet need with ethnicity and insurance status. results in a 12-month period  2%-3% of children 3-5 years old and 6%-9% of children and adolescents 6-17 years old used mental health services. of children and adolescents 6-17 years old who were defined as needing mental health services  nearly 80% did not receive mental health care. controlling for other factors  the authors determined that the rate of unmet need was greater among latino than white children and among uninsured than publicly insured children. conclusions these findings reveal that most children who need a mental health evaluation do not receive services and that latinos and the uninsured have especially high rates of unmet need relative to other children. rates of use of mental health services are extremely low among preschool children. research clarifying the reasons for high rates of unmet need in specific groups can help inform policy and clinical programs.
4967,aldh1 is a marker of normal and malignant human mammary stem cells and a predictor of poor clinical outcome.,application of stem cell biology to breast cancer research has been limited by the lack of simple methods for identification and isolation of normal and malignant stem cells. utilizing in vitro and in vivo experimental systems  we show that normal and cancer human mammary epithelial cells with increased aldehyde dehydrogenase activity (aldh) have stem/progenitor properties. these cells contain the subpopulation of normal breast epithelium with the broadest lineage differentiation potential and greatest growth capacity in a xenotransplant model. in breast carcinomas  high aldh activity identifies the tumorigenic cell fraction  capable of self-renewal and of generating tumors that recapitulate the heterogeneity of the parental tumor. in a series of 577 breast carcinomas  expression of aldh1 detected by immunostaining correlated with poor prognosis. these findings offer an important new tool for the study of normal and malignant breast stem cells and facilitate the clinical application of stem cell concepts.
4969,inhibition of src expression and activity inhibits tumor progression and metastasis of human pancreatic adenocarcinoma cells in an orthotopic nude mouse model.,the nonreceptor protein tyrosine kinase src is overexpressed in 70% of pancreatic adenocarcinomas. here  we describe the effect of molecular and pharmacological down-regulation of src on incidence  growth  and metastasis of pancreatic tumor cells in an orthotopic model. src expression in l3.6pl human pancreatic tumor cells was reduced by stable expression of a plasmid encoding small interfering rna (sirna) to c-src. in stable sirna clones  src expression was reduced >80%  with no change in expression of the related kinases c-yes and c-lyn  and proliferation rates were similar in all clones. phosphorylation of akt and p44/42 erk mitogen-activated protein kinase and production of vegf and il-8 in culture supernatants were also reduced (p < 0.005). on orthotopic implantation of varying cell numbers into nude mice  tumor incidence was unchanged; however  in the sirna clones  large tumors failed to develop  and incidence of metastasis was significantly reduced  suggesting that c-src activity is critical to tumor progression. to examine this possibility further  animals bearing established wild-type tumors were treated with the src/abl-selective inhibitor bms-354825 (dasatinib). tumor size was decreased  and incidence of metastases was significantly reduced in treated mice compared with controls. these results demonstrate that src activation contributes to pancreatic tumor progression in this model  offering src as a candidate for targeted therapy.
4971,scrapie in mice. agent-strain differences in the distribution and intensity of grey matter vacuolation.,five strains of scrapie agent were used as intracerebral inocula for 2 inbred mouse strains  c57bl and vm  and their f1 cross. the degree of vacuolation in specified regions of the brain  and the relative distribution of this damage in 9 regions represented as a “lesion profile”  was different for each agent. any of the 5 scrapie agents could be distinguished from the others with a very high degree of reliability solely on the basis of these histological parameters  using either strain of mouse. the lesion profile was unaffected by the dose of the agent  using doses of me7 agent ranging over 6 orders of magnitude in c57bl mice. the genotype of mouse had a marked effect on the overall degree of vacuolation and on the shape of the lesion profile: these effects were more profound with some agents than others. in certain areas of the brain  depending upon the strain of agent used  the (c57bl × vm)f1 cross was found to have either significantly more or significantly less vacuolation than either parental genotype. the genetic control of the lesion profile was found to be too complex for more detailed analysis in these data.
4973,cluster sampling to assess immunization coverage: a review of experience with a simplified sampling method.,the expanded program on immunization (epi) is using a simplified cluster sampling method  based on the random selection of 210 children in 30 clusters of 7 children each  to estimate immunization coverage levels. this article analyzes the results of this method in actual and computer simulated surveys. results from 60 actual surveys conducted in 25 countries were available for analysis  for a total of 446 sample estimations of immunization coverage. 83% of the sample results had 95% confidence limits within + or - 10%  and none of the surveys had 95% confidence limits exceeding + or - 13%. in addition  12 hypothetical population strata with immunization coverage rates ranging from 10%-99% were established for the purposes of computer simulation  and 10 hypothetical communities were established by allocating to them various proportions of each of the strata. these simulated surveys also supported the validity of the epi method: over 95% of the results were less than + or - 10% from the actual population mean. the precision of this method  as estimated from the results of both actual and simulated surveys  is considered satisfactory for the requirements of the epi. among the actual surveys  the proportion of results whose confidence limits exceeded + or - 10% was greatest (50%) when immunization coverage in the sample was 45%-54%.
4975,recombinant human tumor necrosis factor administered as a 24-hour intravenous infusion. a phase i and pharmacologic study.,recombinant human tumor necrosis factor (rh-tnf) is a cytokine with direct antitumor properties. in a phase i trial we continuously infused rh-tnf for 24 hours. we gave a total of 115 courses of therapy to 50 patients. doses ranged from 4.5 to 645 micrograms of rh-tnf/m2. systemic toxicity  including fever  chills  fatigue  and hypotension  increased with the dose of rh-tnf administered. doses greater than 454 micrograms/m2 frequently caused severe lethargy and fatigue  which precluded hospital discharge of the patient at the completion of therapy. the dose-limiting toxicity was hypotension  and five patients treated at the two highest dose levels required dopamine treatment. other organ-specific toxicity was modest and spontaneously resolved after 48 hours. the 24-hour infusions of rh-tnf were associated with significant decreases in serum cholesterol and high-density lipoprotein levels. pharmacokinetic studies using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay demonstrated peak plasma rh-tnf levels of 90-900 pg/ml. despite continuous infusion of rh-tnf  no steady-state level was achieved. the recommended phase ii dose for rh-tnf as a 24-hour continuous infusion is 545 micrograms/m2.
4977,materials and methods figs. s1 to s15 references supporting online materials,endosomal toll-like receptors (tlrs) 7 and 9 recognize viral pathogens and induce signals leading to the activation of nuclear factor κb (nf-κb)-dependent proinflammatory cytokines and interferon regulatory factor 7 (irf7)-dependent type i interferons (ifns). recognition of viral nucleic acids by tlr9 requires its cleavage in the endolysosomal compartment. here  we show that tlr9 signals leading to the activation of type i ifn  but not proinflammatory cytokine genes  require tlr9 trafficking from endosomes to a specialized lysosome-related organelle. furthermore  we identify adapter protein-3 as the protein complex responsible for the trafficking of tlr9 to this subcellular compartment. our results reveal an intracellular mechanism for bifurcation of tlr9 signals by selective receptor trafficking within the endosomal system.
4979,structural trends in the aging femoral neck and proximal shaft: analysis of the third national health and nutrition examination survey dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry data.,hip scans of u.s. adults aged 20-99 years acquired in the third national health and nutrition examination survey (nhanes iii) using dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (dxa) were analyzed with a structural analysis program. the program analyzes narrow (3 mm wide) regions at specific locations across the proximal femur to measure bone mineral density (bmd) as well as cross-sectional areas (csas)  cross-sectional moments of inertia (csmi)  section moduli  subperiosteal widths  and estimated mean cortical thickness. measurements are reported here on a non-hispanic white subgroup of 2 719 men and 2 904 women for a cortical region across the proximal shaft 2 cm distal to the lesser trochanter and a mixed cortical/trabecular region across the narrowest point of the femoral neck. apparent age trends in bmd and section modulus were studied for both regions by sex after correction for body weight. the bmd decline with age in the narrow neck was similar to that seen in the hologic neck region; bmd in the shaft also declined  although at a slower rate. a different pattern was seen for section modulus; furthermore  this pattern depended on sex. specifically  the section modulus at both the narrow neck and the shaft regions remains nearly constant until the fifth decade in females and then declined at a slower rate than bmd. in males  the narrow neck section modulus declined modestly until the fifth decade and then remained nearly constant whereas the shaft section modulus was static until the fifth decade and then increased steadily. the apparent mechanism for the discord between bmd and section modulus is a linear expansion in subperiosteal diameter in both sexes and in both regions  which tends to mechanically offset net loss of medullary bone mass. these results suggest that aging loss of bone mass in the hip does not necessarily mean reduced mechanical strength. femoral neck section moduli in the elderly are on the average within 14% of young values in females and within 6% in males.
4981,a negative staining method for high resolution electron microscopy of viruses.,abstract a simple technique has been developed for the study of the external form and structure of virus particles. high contrast with good preservation is obtained by mixing virus preparations with 1% phosphotungstic acid adjusted to ph 7.5 and spraying directly onto electron microscope supporting films made from evaporated carbon. the application of the technique to tobacco mosaic virus and turnip yellow mosaic virus is described. structural details suggested by x-ray diffraction methods have been resolved.
4983,long noncoding rna as modular scaffold of histone modification complexes,long intergenic noncoding rnas (lincrnas) regulate chromatin states and epigenetic inheritance. here  we show that the lincrna hotair serves as a scaffold for at least two distinct histone modification complexes. a 5' domain of hotair binds polycomb repressive complex 2 (prc2)  whereas a 3' domain of hotair binds the lsd1/corest/rest complex. the ability to tether two distinct complexes enables rna-mediated assembly of prc2 and lsd1 and coordinates targeting of prc2 and lsd1 to chromatin for coupled histone h3 lysine 27 methylation and lysine 4 demethylation. our results suggest that lincrnas may serve as scaffolds by providing binding surfaces to assemble select histone modification enzymes  thereby specifying the pattern of histone modifications on target genes.
4985,lpa gene  ethnicity  and cardiovascular events,background: the relationship of lpa single nucleotide polymorphisms (snps)  apolipoprotein(a) isoforms  and lipoprotein(a) [lp(a)] levels with major adverse cardiovascular events (mace) in different ethnic groups is not well known. methods: lpa snps  apolipoprotein(a) isoforms  lp(a)  and oxidized phospholipids on apolipoprotein b-100 (oxpl-apob) levels were measured in 1792 black  1030 white  and 597 hispanic subjects enrolled in the dallas heart study. their interdependent relationships and prospective association with mace after median 9.5-year follow-up were determined. results: lpa snp rs3798220 was most prevalent in hispanics (42.38%)  rs10455872 in whites (14.27%)  and rs9457951 in blacks (32.92%). the correlation of each of these snps with the major apolipoprotein(a) isoform size was highly variable and in different directions among ethnic groups. in the entire cohort  cox regression analysis with multivariable adjustment revealed that quartiles 4 of lp(a) and oxpl-apob were associated with hazard ratios (95% confidence interval) for time to mace of 2.35 (1.50–3.69  p<0.001) and 1.89 (1.26–2.84  p=0.003)  respectively  versus quartile 1. addition of the major apolipoprotein(a) isoform and the 3 lpa snps to these models attenuated the risk  but significance was maintained for both lp(a) and oxpl-apob. evaluating time to mace in specific ethnic groups  lp(a) was a positive predictor and the size of the major apolipoprotein(a) isoform was an inverse predictor in blacks  the size of the major apolipoprotein(a) isoform was an inverse predictor in whites  and oxpl-apob was a positive predictor in hispanics. conclusions: the prevalence and association of lpa snps with size of apolipoprotein(a) isoforms  lp(a)  and oxpl-apob levels are highly variable and ethnicity-specific. the relationship to mace is best explained by elevated plasma lp(a) or oxpl-apob levels  despite significant ethnic differences in lpa genetic markers.
4987,reduced plasma concentrations of nitrogen oxide in individuals with essential hypertension.,patients with essential hypertension exhibit blunted endothelium-dependent vasodilator responses  which may be largely attributable to reduced bioactivity of nitric oxide (no). therefore  we measured the end product of no  nitrate plus nitrite (nitrogen oxide)  and examined the relationship between the degree of hypertension and plasma nitrate plus nitrite levels in patients with essential hypertension. the combined plasma concentration of nitrate plus nitrite  end products of no metabolism  was reduced in individuals with essential hypertension relative to that in control subjects (15.7+/-1.1 versus 22.8+/-1.4 mmol x l(-1)  p<.001); individuals with borderline hypertension showed values that were intermediate between those of the other two groups (18.2+/-1.2 mmol x l(-1)  p<.001). the plasma nitrogen oxide concentration showed significant inverse correlations with both systolic and diastolic blood pressures. the basal concentration of nitrogen oxide in the plasma was reduced  at least in the peripheral circulation  in individuals with essential hypertension.
4989,late presentation of hiv-infected individuals.,late presentation remains a major concern despite the dramatically improved prognosis realized by art. we define a first presentation for hiv care during the course of hiv infection as 'late' if an aids-defining opportunistic disease is apparent  or if cd4+ t-cells are <200/microl. in the western world  approximately 10 and 30% of hiv-infected individuals still present with cd4+ t-cells <50 and <200/microl  respectively; estimates are substantially higher for developing countries. diagnosis and treatment of opportunistic diseases and intense supportive in-hospital care take precedence over art. benefits of starting art without delay  that is  when opportunistic diseases are still active  include faster resolution of opportunistic diseases and a decreased risk of recurrence. the downside of starting art without delay could include toxicity  drug interactions and immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (iris). among asymptomatic or oligosymptomatic individuals presenting late  where art and primary prophylaxis are initiated  approximately 10-20% will become symptomatic from drug toxicity or undiagnosed opportunistic complications  including iris  which require appropriate therapies. in this review we describe late presentation to hiv care  the scale of the problem  the evaluation of a late-presenting patient and challenges associated with initiation of potent antiretroviral therapy (art) in the setting of acute opportunistic infections and other comorbidities.
4991,the role of alcohol in the russian mortality crisis.,aims alcohol is believed to be an important factor behind the sharp rise in mortality during the period 1990-94 in russia. however  the rise in the standard alcohol consumption proxy does not seem to be sufficient to explain all the increase in mortality. this study adopts a novel approach to exploring the role of the alcohol factor in the increased mortality by investigating whether the mismatch between trends in mortality and recorded alcohol consumption is due to an underestimation of the consumption increase. design and measurements first  the alcohol effect on the male accident rate was estimated using data for the period 1959-89. next  the estimated alcohol effect and the observed accident mortality rate for the period 1990-98 were used to backcast alcohol consumption during that period. thirdly  the backcasted alcohol series was used to predict trajectories in alcohol poisoning mortality  the homicide rate and all-cause mortality during the period 1990-98. findings there was a markedly stronger increase in the backcasted consumption proxy than in the standard alcohol consumption proxy during the period 1990-98. there was a substantial gap between the observed mortality rates and the rates predicted from the standard alcohol consumption proxy  whereas the predictions from the backcasted alcohol proxy were much closer to the target. conclusions much of the rise in russian mortality in 1990-94 appears to have been due to the increase in population drinking  but this increase is grossly underestimated by the commonly used consumption proxy combining alcohol sales  estimation of illicit alcohol production and proportion of alcohol-positive violent deaths.
4993,a gateway® compatible vector for gene silencing in bloodstream form trypanosoma brucei.,rna interference is the most rapid method for generation of conditional knockdown mutants in trypanosoma brucei. the dual t7 promoter (pzjm) and the stem-loop vectors have been widely used to generate stable inducible rnai cell lines with the latter providing tighter regulatory control. however  the steps for cloning stem-loop constructs are cumbersome requiring either multiple cloning steps or multi-fragment ligation reactions. we report the development of a vector (ptryprnaigate) derived from plew100 that utilizes the gateway® recombination system to facilitate easy production of hairpin rna constructs. this approach allows the final stem-loop rnai construct to be generated from a single cloning step of the pcr-derived gene fragment followed by an in vitro recombination reaction. the new vector facilitates high-throughput applications for gene silencing and provides a tool for functional genomics in t. brucei.
4995,influence of dna on the activities and inhibition of neutrophil serine proteases in cystic fibrosis sputum.,uncontrolled proteolysis by neutrophil serine proteases (nsps) in lung secretions is a hallmark of cystic fibrosis (cf). we have shown that the active neutrophil elastase  protease 3  and cathepsin g in cf sputum resist inhibition in part by exogenous protease inhibitors. this resistance may be due to their binding to neutrophil extracellular traps (nets) secreted by the activated neutrophils in cf sputum and to genomic dna released from senescent and dead neutrophils. treating cf sputum with dnase dramatically increases its elastase activity  which can then be stoichiometrically inhibited by exogenous elastase inhibitors. however  dnase treatment does not increase the activities of protease 3 and cathepsin g  indicating their different distribution and/or binding in cf sputum. purified blood neutrophils secrete nets when stimulated by the opportunistic cf bacteria pseudomonas aeruginosa and staphylococcus aureus. the activities of the three proteases were unchanged in these conditions  but subsequent dnase treatment produced a dramatic increase in all three proteolytic activities. neutrophils activated with a calcium ionophore did not secrete nets but released huge amounts of active proteases whose activities were not modified by dnase. we conclude that nets are reservoirs of active proteases that protect them from inhibition and maintain them in a rapidly mobilizable status. combining the effects of protease inhibitors with that of dna-degrading agents could counter the deleterious proteolytic effects of nsps in cf lung secretions.
4997,quantitative characterization of metastatic disease in the spine. part i. semiautomated segmentation using atlas-based deformable registration and the level set method.,quantitative assessment of metastatic disease in bone is often considered immeasurable and  as such  patients with skeletal metastases are often excluded from clinical trials. in order to effectively quantify the impact of metastatic tumor involvement in the spine  accurate segmentation of the vertebra is required. manual segmentation can be accurate but involves extensive and time-consuming user interaction. potential solutions to automating segmentation of metastatically involved vertebrae are demons deformable image registration and level set methods. the purpose of this study was to develop a semiautomated method to accurately segment tumor-bearing vertebrae using the aforementioned techniques. by maintaining morphology of an atlas  the demons-level set composite algorithm was able to accurately differentiate between trans-cortical tumors and surrounding soft tissue of identical intensity. the algorithm successfully segmented both the vertebral body and trabecular centrum of tumor-involved and healthy vertebrae. this work validates our approach as equivalent in accuracy to an experienced user.
4999,comparison of agar dilution  microdilution  and disk elution methods for measuring the synergy of cefotaxime and its metabolite against anaerobes.,the activities of cefotaxime (ctx) and desacetyl cefotaxime (des-ctx) were tested both singly and in combination against 173 anaerobic clinical isolates. the mic of ctx for 50% of 60 bacteroides fragilis isolates was 22.4 micrograms/ml in broth  compared with 47.4 micrograms/ml in agar. this reduced efficacy in agar was seen with all species tested and is in apparent conflict with reported clinical efficacy of the drug. synergy between ctx and des-ctx was observed with 70 to 100% of the isolates  including 60% of all bacteroides spp. tested. the susceptibility results in a synergy system correlated well with those noted in a broth-disk elution method incorporating 32 micrograms of ctx and 8 micrograms of des-ctx per ml. the correlation was poorer when the broth-disk method contained 16 micrograms of ctx and 8 micrograms of des-ctx per ml.
5001,human papillomavirus and papanicolaou tests to screen for cervical cancer.,background screening for cervical cancer based on testing for human papillomavirus (hpv) increases the sensitivity of detection of high-grade (grade 2 or 3) cervical intraepithelial neoplasia  but whether this gain represents overdiagnosis or protection against future high-grade cervical epithelial neoplasia or cervical cancer is unknown. methods in a population-based screening program in sweden  12 527 women 32 to 38 years of age were randomly assigned at a 1:1 ratio to have an hpv test plus a papanicolaou (pap) test (intervention group) or a pap test alone (control group). women with a positive hpv test and a normal pap test result were offered a second hpv test at least 1 year later  and those who were found to be persistently infected with the same high-risk type of hpv were then offered colposcopy with cervical biopsy. a similar number of double-blinded pap smears and colposcopies with biopsy were performed in randomly selected women in the control group. comprehensive registry data were used to follow the women for a mean of 4.1 years. the relative rates of grade 2 or 3 cervical intraepithelial neoplasia or cancer detected at enrollment and at subsequent screening examinations were calculated. results at enrollment  the proportion of women in the intervention group who were found to have lesions of grade 2 or 3 cervical intraepithelial neoplasia or cancer was 51% greater (95% confidence interval [ci]  13 to 102) than the proportion of women in the control group who were found to have such lesions. at subsequent screening examinations  the proportion of women in the intervention group who were found to have grade 2 or 3 lesions or cancer was 42% less (95% ci  4 to 64) and the proportion with grade 3 lesions or cancer was 47% less (95% ci  2 to 71) than the proportions of control women who were found to have such lesions. women with persistent hpv infection remained at high risk for grade 2 or 3 lesions or cancer after referral for colposcopy. conclusions the addition of an hpv test to the pap test to screen women in their mid-30s for cervical cancer reduces the incidence of grade 2 or 3 cervical intraepithelial neoplasia or cancer detected by subsequent screening examinations. (clinicaltrials.gov number  nct00479375 [clinicaltrials.gov].).
5003,frontal stroke syndromes.,the frontal lobe is the largest lobe of the brain  and it is thus commonly involved in stroke. moreover  almost one in five strokes is limited to the prerolandic areas. this high frequency of anatomical involvement is in sharp contrast with the apparent rarity of clinical frontal dysfunction in stroke. it is remarkable that frontal behavioral syndromes have been rather uncommonly reported in patients with stroke as compared to patients with other diseases  such as brain tumor. this fact is paradoxical  because an acute process (stroke) is expected to yield more clinical dysfunction than a more chronic disease (tumor). a volume effect may be the main factor leading to this phenomenon. another interesting aspect of frontal strokes is the contribution of so-called 'silent' strokes  the recurrence of which may nevertheless lead to intellectual decline and compromise recovery from another stroke with more specific neurologic dysfunction. the contribution of stroke to understanding of frontal lobe dysfunction is important  because of the focal nature of this disease  and great opportunity for clinical-topographic classification correlations. one of the first modern attempts to develop a clinical-topographic classification of frontal lobe lesions came from the school of luria  who tried to delineate three main types of frontal lobe syndromes (premotor syndrome  prefrontal syndrome  medial-frontal syndrome). recent anatomic correlates using mri make it possible to improve this classification. we suggest considering six main clinical-anatomic frontal stroke syndromes: (1) prefrontal; (2) premotor; (3) superior medial; (4) orbital-medial; (5) basal forebrain; (6) white matter. finally  another fascinating topic relates to frontal lobe symptomatology due to stroke sparing the frontal cortex or white matter. this occurs mainly in three instances: lenticulo-capsular stroke  caudate stroke  and thalamic stroke. studies using blood flow or metabolism measurements suggest that diaschisis (frontal lobe dysfunction from a remote lesion) may play a role. we believe that this is more likely to be related to dynamic interruption of complex circuitry than to static frontal lobe deactivation.
5005,the crystal structure of tal effector pthxo1 bound to its dna target.,dna recognition by tal effectors is mediated by tandem repeats  each 33 to 35 residues in length  that specify nucleotides via unique repeat-variable diresidues (rvds). the crystal structure of pthxo1 bound to its dna target was determined by high-throughput computational structure prediction and validated by heavy-atom derivatization. each repeat forms a left-handed  two-helix bundle that presents an rvd-containing loop to the dna. the repeats self-associate to form a right-handed superhelix wrapped around the dna major groove. the first rvd residue forms a stabilizing contact with the protein backbone  while the second makes a base-specific contact to the dna sense strand. two degenerate amino-terminal repeats also interact with the dna. containing several rvds and noncanonical associations  the structure illustrates the basis of tal effector-dna recognition.
5007,dendritic cells  t cells and lymphatics: dialogues in migration and beyond.,immune cells continuously recirculate through lymph vessels en route from peripheral tissues to the blood. leuyte trafficking into and within lymph vessels is mediated by an interply with lymphatic endothelial cells (lecs). however  lymphatic vessels are much more than mere conduits for fluid and immune cell transport. data accumulating during past several years indicate that lecs support t cell survival  induce tolerance to self-antigens  inhibit exaggerated t cell proliferation during immune response and maintain t cell memory. reciprocally  leukocytes impact lec biology: lymphatic vessel permeability depends on dcs while lymphocytes regulate lec proliferation during inflammation. altogether  these novel results provide important insights on intimate connections between lecs and leukocytes that contribute to the understanding of immune responses.
5009,comparative structural analysis of lipid binding start domains,background steroidogenic acute regulatory (star) protein related lipid transfer (start) domains are small globular modules that form a cavity where lipids and lipid hormones bind. these domains can transport ligands to facilitate lipid exchange between biological membranes  and they have been postulated to modulate the activity of other domains of the protein in response to ligand binding. more than a dozen human genes encode start domains  and several of them are implicated in a disease. principal findings we report crystal structures of the human stard1  stard5  stard13 and stard14 lipid transfer domains. these represent four of the six functional classes of start domains. significance sequence alignments based on these and previously reported crystal structures define the structural determinants of human start domains  both those related to structural framework and those involved in ligand specificity. enhanced version this article can also be viewed as an enhanced version in which the text of the article is integrated with interactive 3d representations and animated transitions. please note that a web plugin is required to access this enhanced functionality. instructions for the installation and use of the web plugin are available in text s1.
5011,strategies for optimizing maternal nutrition to promote infant development,background the growing appreciation of the multi-faceted importance of optimal maternal nutrition to the health and development of the infant and young child is tempered by incompletely resolved strategies for combatting challenges. objective to review the importance of maternal nutrition and strategies being employed to optimize outcomes. methods selected data from recent literature with special focus on rationale for and currently published results of maternal nutrition supplements  including lipid based nutrition supplements. results 1) an impelling rationale for improving the maternal and in utero environment of low resource populations has emerged to achieve improved fetal and post-natal growth and development. 2) based partly on population increases in adult height over one-two generations  much can be achieved by reducing poverty. 3) maternal  newborn and infant characteristics associated with low resource environments include evidence of undernutrition  manifested by underweight and impaired linear growth. 4) apart from broad public health and educational initiatives  to date  most specific efforts to improve fetal growth and development have included maternal nutrition interventions during gestation. 5) the relatively limited but real benefits of both iron/folic acid (ifa) and multiple micronutrient (mmn) maternal supplements during gestation have now been reasonably defined. 6) recent investigations of a maternal lipid-based primarily micronutrient supplement (lns) have not demonstrated a consistent benefit beyond mmn alone. 7) however  effects of both mmn and lns appear to be enhanced by commencing early in gestation. conclusions poor maternal nutritional status is one of a very few specific factors in the human that not only contributes to impaired fetal and early post-natal growth but for which maternal interventions have demonstrated improved in utero development  documented primarily by both improvements in low birth weights and by partial corrections of impaired birth length. a clearer definition of the benefits achievable by interventions specifically focused on correcting maternal nutrition deficits should not be limited to improvements in the quality of maternal nutrition supplements  but on the cumulative quantity and timing of interventions (also recognizing the heterogeneity between populations). finally  in an ideal world these steps are only a prelude to improvements in the total environment in which optimal nutrition and other health determinants can be achieved.
5013,metformin reverses established lung fibrosis in a bleomycin model,fibrosis is a pathological result of a dysfunctional repair response to tissue injury and occurs in a number of organs  including the lungs1. cellular metabolism regulates tissue repair and remodelling responses to injury2-4. ampk is a critical sensor of cellular bioenergetics and controls the switch from anabolic to catabolic metabolism5. however  the role of ampk in fibrosis is not well understood. here  we demonstrate that in humans with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (ipf) and in an experimental mouse model of lung fibrosis  ampk activity is lower in fibrotic regions associated with metabolically active and apoptosis-resistant myofibroblasts. pharmacological activation of ampk in myofibroblasts from lungs of humans with ipf display lower fibrotic activity  along with enhanced mitochondrial biogenesis and normalization of sensitivity to apoptosis. in a bleomycin model of lung fibrosis in mice  metformin therapeutically accelerates the resolution of well-established fibrosis in an ampk-dependent manner. these studies implicate deficient ampk activation in non-resolving  pathologic fibrotic processes  and support a role for metformin (or other ampk activators) to reverse established fibrosis by facilitating deactivation and apoptosis of myofibroblasts.
5015,effects of age  sex  and ethnicity on the association between apolipoprotein e genotype and alzheimer disease: a meta-analysis,objective. —to examine more closely the association between apolipoprotein e (apoe) genotype and alzheimer disease (ad) by age and sex in populations of various ethnic and racial denominations. data sources. —forty research teams contributed data onapoegenotype  sex  age at disease onset  and ethnic background for 5930 patients who met criteria for probable or definite ad and 8607 controls without dementia who were recruited from clinical  community  and brain bank sources. main outcome measures. —odds ratios (ors) and 95% confidence intervals (cls) for ad  adjusted for age and study and stratified by major ethnic group (caucasian  african american  hispanic  and japanese) and source  were computed forapoegenotypes ∈2/∈2 ∈2/∈3 ∈2/∈4 ∈3/∈4 and ∈4/∈4 relative to the ∈3/∈3 group. the influence of age and sex on the or for each genotype was assessed using logistic regression procedures. results. —among caucasian subjects from clinic- or autopsy-based studies  the risk of ad was significantly increased for people with genotypes ∈2/∈4 (or=2.6  95% cl=1.6-4.0)  ∈3/∈4 (or=3.2  95% cl=2.8-3.8)  and ∈4/∈4 (or=14.9  95% ci=10.8-20.6); whereas  the ors were decreased for people with genotypes ∈2/∈2 (or=0.6  95% cl=0.2-2.0) and ∈2/∈3 (or=0.6  95% cl=0.5-0.8). theapoe∈4-ad association was weaker among african americans and hispanics  but there was significant heterogeneity in ors among studies of african americans (p conclusions. —theapoe∈4 allele represents a major risk factor for ad in all ethnic groups studied  across all ages between 40 and 90 years  and in both men and women. the association betweenapoe∈4 and ad in african americans requires clarification  and the attenuated effect ofapoe∈4 in hispanics should be investigated further.
5017,mesenchymal stromal cells: from discovery to manufacturing and commercialization,over the last decades  mesenchymal stromal cells (msc) have been the focus of intense research by academia and industry due to their unique features. msc can be easily isolated and expanded through in vitro culture by taking full advantage of their self-renewing capacity. in addition  msc exert immunomodulatory effects and can be differentiated into various lineages  which makes them highly attractive for clinical applications in cell-based therapies. in this review  we attempt to provide a brief historical overview of msc discovery  characterization  and the first clinical studies conducted. the current msc manufacturing platforms are reviewed with special attention regarding the use of bioreactors for the production of gmp-compliant clinically relevant cell numbers. the first commercial msc-based products are also addressed  as well as the remaining challenges to the widespread use of msc-derived products.
5019,the long noncoding rna carel controls cardiac regeneration.,background adult mammalian heart loses regeneration ability following ischemic injury due to the loss of cardiomyocyte mitosis. however  the molecular mechanisms underlying the post-mitotic nature of cardiomyocytes remain largely unknown. objectives the purpose of this study was to define the essential role of long noncoding ribonucleic acids (lncrnas) in heart regeneration during postnatal and adult injury. methods myh6-driving cardiomyocyte-specific lncrna-carel transgenic mice and adenovirus-mediated in vivo silencing of endogenous carel were used in this study. the effect of carel on cardiomyocyte replication and heart regeneration after apical resection or myocardial infarction was assessed by detecting mitosis and cytokinesis. results an lncrna carel was found significantly up-regulated in cardiomyocytes from neonatal mice (p7) in parallel with loss of regenerative capacity. cardiac-specific overexpression of carel in mice reduced cardiomyocyte division and proliferation and blunted neonatal heart regeneration after injury. conversely  silencing of carel in vivo markedly promoted cardiac regeneration and improved heart functions after myocardial infarction in neonatal and adult mice. carel acted as a competing endogenous ribonucleic acid for mir-296 to derepress the expression of trp53inp1 and itm2a  the target genes of mir-296. consistently  overexpression of mir-296 significantly increased cardiomyocyte replication and cardiac regeneration after injury. decline of cardiac regenerative ability in carel transgenic mice was also rescued by mir-296. a short fragment containing the conserved sequence of carel reduced the proliferation of human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes as the full-length carel. conclusions lncrna carel regulates cardiomyocyte proliferation and heart regeneration in postnatal and adult heart after injury by acting as a competing endogenous ribonucleic acid on mir-296 that targets trp53inp1 and itm2a.
5021,adapting the who package of essential noncommunicable disease interventions  samoa,problem samoa has been struggling to address the burden of noncommunicable diseases at the health system  community and individual levels. approach the world health organization (who) package of essential noncommunicable disease interventions for primary health care in low-resource settings was adopted in seven villages throughout samoa in 2015. the national steering committee members designed and implemented a screening process  and local facilitators and health-care workers collected health and lifestyle data. the who/international society of hypertension risk assessment was used on villagers older than 40 years to identify people at high risk of noncommunicable disease. local setting samoa is a small island developing state with increasing morbidity and mortality due to noncommunicable diseases. a national representative survey indicated that 50.1% (595/1188) of the samoan adult population is at high risk of such diseases. high numbers of noncommunicable diseases are undiagnosed or untreated  because of shortage of health-care staff and lack of awareness of risk factors. relevant changes the teams collected data from 2234 adults. for people older than 40 years  6.7% (54/804) were identified as being at high-risk and were encouraged to seek treatment or manage risk factors. community members developed an awareness programme to improve understanding of lifestyle risk factors. lessons learnt engaging community members was crucial in conducting a successful screening campaign. by identifying those villagers at high risk of developing noncommunicable diseases  early intervention was possible. education improved awareness of the symptom-free nature of early-stage noncommunicable diseases.
5023,the dual immunoregulatory function of nlrp12 in t cell-mediated immune response: lessons from experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis,although the etiology of multiple sclerosis (ms) remains enigmatic  the role of t cells is unquestionably central in this pathology. immune cells respond to pathogens and danger signals via pattern-recognition receptors (prr). several reports implicate nlrp12  an intracellular prr  in the development of a mouse ms-like disease  called experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (eae). in this study  we used induced and spontaneous models of eae  as well as in vitro t cell assays  to test the hypothesis that nlrp12 inhibits th1 response and prevents t-cell mediated autoimmunity. we found that nlrp12 plays a protective role in induced eae by reducing ifnγ/il-4 ratio in lymph nodes  whereas it potentiates the development of spontaneous eae (speae) in 2d2 t cell receptor (tcr) transgenic mice. looking into the mechanism of nlrp12 activity in t cell response  we found that it inhibits t cell proliferation and suppresses th1 response by reducing ifnγ and il-2 production. following tcr activation  nlrp12 inhibits akt and nf-κb phosphorylation  while it has no effect on s6 phosphorylation in the mtor pathway. in conclusion  we propose a model that can explain the dual immunoregulatory function of nlrp12 in eae. we also propose a model explaining the molecular mechanism of nlrp12-dependent regulation of t cell response.
5025,2017 revisions of mcdonald criteria shorten the time to diagnosis of multiple sclerosis in clinically isolated syndromes,to investigate the impact of the 2017 revisions of mcdonald criteria on the diagnosis of multiple sclerosis (ms) in a cohort of patients with clinically isolated syndrome (cis) and dissemination in space (dis) of demyelinating lesions. we retrospectively analyzed 137 patients with cis + dis from two italian ms centers. application of the 2017 revisions of mcdonald criteria in our cohort led to a diagnosis of ms in 82.5% of the patients who could have not been diagnosed with ms according to the previous criteria at the time of the first demyelinating event. after a follow-up of 3.8 ± 2.9 years  85.8% of these patients eventually satisfied also the previous (2010) criteria. application of the 2017 revisions of mcdonald criteria results in an earlier diagnosis of ms in a large percentage of cis patients destined to convert to ms.
5027,global cancer statistics 2018: globocan estimates of incidence and mortality worldwide for 36 cancers in 185 countries.,this article provides a status report on the global burden of cancer worldwide using the globocan 2018 estimates of cancer incidence and mortality produced by the international agency for research on cancer  with a focus on geographic variability across 20 world regions. there will be an estimated 18.1 million new cancer cases (17.0 million excluding nonmelanoma skin cancer) and 9.6 million cancer deaths (9.5 million excluding nonmelanoma skin cancer) in 2018. in both sexes combined  lung cancer is the most commonly diagnosed cancer (11.6% of the total cases) and the leading cause of cancer death (18.4% of the total cancer deaths)  closely followed by female breast cancer (11.6%)  prostate cancer (7.1%)  and colorectal cancer (6.1%) for incidence and colorectal cancer (9.2%)  stomach cancer (8.2%)  and liver cancer (8.2%) for mortality. lung cancer is the most frequent cancer and the leading cause of cancer death among males  followed by prostate and colorectal cancer (for incidence) and liver and stomach cancer (for mortality). among females  breast cancer is the most commonly diagnosed cancer and the leading cause of cancer death  followed by colorectal and lung cancer (for incidence)  and vice versa (for mortality); cervical cancer ranks fourth for both incidence and mortality. the most frequently diagnosed cancer and the leading cause of cancer death  however  substantially vary across countries and within each country depending on the degree of economic development and associated social and life style factors. it is noteworthy that high-quality cancer registry data  the basis for planning and implementing evidence-based cancer control programs  are not available in most low- and middle-income countries. the global initiative for cancer registry development is an international partnership that supports better estimation  as well as the collection and use of local data  to prioritize and evaluate national cancer control efforts. ca: a cancer journal for clinicians 2018;0:1-31. © 2018 american cancer society.
5029,tgf‐β‐mediated exosomal lnc‐mmp2‐2 regulates migration and invasion of lung cancer cells to the vasculature by promoting mmp2 expression,previous studies indicated that transforming growth factor (tgf)-β-mediated exosomal micrornas (mirnas) regulate the migration and invasion of lung cancer cells; however  whether and how tgf-β-mediated exosomal long noncoding (lnc) rnas regulate migration and invasion of lung cancer cells remains unclear. here  coculture experiments showed that tgf-β pretreatment increased the migration and invasion potential of lung cancer cells and tgf-β pretreated a549 cells increases vascular permeability. furthermore  we found that tgf-β-mediated exosomes  as carriers of intercellular communication  regulated lung cancer invasion  and vascular permeability. transcriptional analysis also revealed that lnc-mmp2-2 was highly enriched in tgf-β-mediated exosomes and might function by increasing the expression of matrix metalloproteinase (mmp)2 through its enhancer activity  with ectopic expression and silencing of lnc-mmp2-2 affecting lung cancer invasion and vascular permeability. additionally  lnc-mmp2-2 and mmp2 expression was assessed semiquantitatively  and tissue-specific correlations between lnc-mmp2-2 and mmp2 expression were evaluated. these results suggested that exosomal lnc-mmp2-2 might regulate the migration and invasion of lung cancer cells into the vasculature by promoting mmp2 expression  suggesting this lncrna as a novel therapeutic target and predictive marker of tumor metastasis in lung cancer.
5031,mitochondrial genome variation and the origin of modern humans.,the analysis of mitochondrial dna (mtdna) has been a potent tool in our understanding of human evolution  owing to characteristics such as high copy number  apparent lack of recombination  high substitution rate and maternal mode of inheritance. however  almost all studies of human evolution based on mtdna sequencing have been confined to the control region  which constitutes less than 7% of the mitochondrial genome. these studies are complicated by the extreme variation in substitution rate between sites  and the consequence of parallel mutations causing difficulties in the estimation of genetic distance and making phylogenetic inferences questionable. most comprehensive studies of the human mitochondrial molecule have been carried out through restriction-fragment length polymorphism analysis  providing data that are ill suited to estimations of mutation rate and therefore the timing of evolutionary events. here  to improve the information obtained from the mitochondrial molecule for studies of human evolution  we describe the global mtdna diversity in humans based on analyses of the complete mtdna sequence of 53 humans of diverse origins. our mtdna data  in comparison with those of a parallel study of the xq13.3 region in the same individuals  provide a concurrent view on human evolution with respect to the age of modern humans.
5033,chromatin signatures of pluripotent cell lines.,epigenetic genome modifications are thought to be important for specifying the lineage and developmental stage of cells within a multicellular organism. here  we show that the epigenetic profile of pluripotent embryonic stem cells (es) is distinct from that of embryonic carcinoma cells  haematopoietic stem cells (hsc) and their differentiated progeny. silent  lineage-specific genes replicated earlier in pluripotent cells than in tissue-specific stem cells or differentiated cells and had unexpectedly high levels of acetylated h3k9 and methylated h3k4. unusually  in es cells these markers of open chromatin were also combined with h3k27 trimethylation at some non-expressed genes. thus  pluripotency of es cells is characterized by a specific epigenetic profile where lineage-specific genes may be accessible but  if so  carry repressive h3k27 trimethylation modifications. h3k27 methylation is functionally important for preventing expression of these genes in es cells as premature expression occurs in embryonic ectoderm development (eed)-deficient es cells. our data suggest that lineage-specific genes are primed for expression in es cells but are held in check by opposing chromatin modifications.
5035,how do i perform a lumbar puncture and analyze the results to diagnose bacterial meningitis?,context diagnostic lumbar punctures (lps)  commonly used to rule out meningitis  are associated with adverse events. objective to systematically review the evidence about diagnostic lp techniques that may decrease the risk of adverse events and the evidence about test accuracy of cerebrospinal fluid (csf) analysis in adult patients with suspected bacterial meningitis. data sources we searched the cochrane library  medline (using ovid and pubmed) from 1966 to january 2006 and embase from 1980 to january 2006 without language restrictions to identify relevant studies and identified others from the bibliographies of retrieved articles. study selection we included randomized trials of patients aged 18 years or older undergoing interventions to facilitate a successful diagnostic lp or to potentially reduce adverse events. studies assessing the accuracy of biochemical analysis of the csf for possible bacterial meningitis were also identified. data extraction two investigators independently appraised study quality and extracted relevant data. for studies of the lp technique  data on the intervention and the outcome were extracted. for studies of the laboratory diagnosis of bacterial meningitis  data on the reference standard and test accuracy were extracted. data synthesis we found 15 randomized trials. a random-effects model was used for quantitative synthesis. five studies of 587 patients compared atraumatic needles with standard needles and found a nonsignificant decrease in the odds of headache with an atraumatic needle (absolute risk reduction [arr]  12.3%; 95% confidence interval [ci]  -1.72% to 26.2%). reinsertion of the stylet before needle removal decreased the risk of headache (arr  11.3%; 95% ci  6.50%-16.2%). the combined results from 4 studies of 717 patients showed a nonsignificant decrease in headache in patients who were mobilized after lp (arr  2.9%; 95% ci  -3.4 to 9.3%). four studies on the accuracy of biochemical analysis of csf in patients with suspected meningitis met inclusion criteria. a csf-blood glucose ratio of 0.4 or less (likelihood ratio [lr]  18; 95% ci  12-27])  csf white blood cell count of 500/mul or higher (lr  15; 95% ci  10-22)  and csf lactate level of 31.53 mg/dl or more (> or =3.5 mmol/l; lr  21; 95% ci  14-32) accurately diagnosed bacterial meningitis. conclusions these data suggest that small-gauge  atraumatic needles may decrease the risk of headache after diagnostic lp. reinsertion of the stylet before needle removal should occur and patients do not require bed rest after the procedure. future research should focus on evaluating interventions to optimize the success of a diagnostic lp and to enhance training in procedural skills.
5037,subversion of systemic glucose metabolism as a mechanism to support the growth of leukemia cells.,from an organismal perspective  cancer cell populations can be considered analogous to parasites that compete with the host for essential systemic resources such as glucose. here  we employed leukemia models and human leukemia samples to document a form of adaptive homeostasis  where malignant cells alter systemic physiology through impairment of both host insulin sensitivity and insulin secretion to provide tumors with increased glucose. mechanistically  tumor cells induce high-level production of igfbp1 from adipose tissue to mediate insulin sensitivity. further  leukemia-induced gut dysbiosis  serotonin loss  and incretin inactivation combine to suppress insulin secretion. importantly  attenuated disease progression and prolonged survival are achieved through disruption of the leukemia-induced adaptive homeostasis. our studies provide a paradigm for systemic management of leukemic disease.
5039,ros-induced r loops trigger a transcription-coupled but brca1/2-independent homologous recombination pathway through csb,actively transcribed regions of the genome are protected by transcription-coupled dna repair mechanisms  including transcription-coupled homologous recombination (tc-hr). here we used reactive oxygen species (ros) to induce and characterize tc-hr at a transcribed locus in human cells. as canonical hr  tc-hr requires rad51. however  the localization of rad51 to damage sites during tc-hr does not require brca1 and brca2  but relies on rad52 and cockayne syndrome protein b (csb). during tc-hr  rad52 is recruited by csb through an acidic domain. csb in turn is recruited by r loops  which are strongly induced by ros in transcribed regions. notably  csb displays a strong affinity for dna:rna hybrids in vitro  suggesting that it is a sensor of ros-induced r loops. thus  tc-hr is triggered by r loops  initiated by csb  and carried out by the csb-rad52-rad51 axis  establishing a brca1/2-independent alternative hr pathway protecting the transcribed genome.
5041,exosomal mir-99a-5p is elevated in sera of ovarian cancer patients and promotes cancer cell invasion by increasing fibronectin and vitronectin expression in neighboring peritoneal mesothelial cells,background micrornas (mirnas) stably exist in circulating blood and are encapsulated in extracellular vesicles such as exosomes. the aims of this study were to identify which exosomal mirnas are highly produced from epithelial ovarian cancer (eoc) cells  to analyze whether serum mirna can be used to discriminate patients with eoc from healthy volunteers  and to investigate the functional role of exosomal mirnas in ovarian cancer progression. methods exosomes were collected from the culture media of serous ovarian cancer cell lines  namely tyk-nu and heya8 cells. an exosomal mirna microarray revealed that several mirnas including mir-99a-5p were specifically elevated in eoc-derived exosomes. expression levels of serum mir-99a-5p in 62 patients with eoc  26 patients with benign ovarian tumors  and 20 healthy volunteers were determined by mirna quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. to investigate the role of exosomal mir-99a-5p in peritoneal dissemination  neighboring human peritoneal mesothelial cells (hpmcs) were treated with eoc-derived exosomes and then expression levels of mir-99a-5p were examined. furthermore  mimics of mir-99a-5p were transfected into hpmcs and the effect of mir-99a-5p on cancer invasion was analyzed using a 3d culture model. proteomic analysis with the tandem mass tag method was performed on hpmcs transfected with mir-99a-5p and then potential target genes of mir-99a-5p were examined. results the serum mir-99a-5p levels were significantly increased in patients with eoc  compared with those in benign tumor patients and healthy volunteers (1.7-fold and 2.8-fold  respectively). a receiver operating characteristic curve analysis showed with a cut-off of 1.41 showed sensitivity and specificity of 0.85 and 0.75  respectively  for detecting eoc (area under the curve = 0.88). serum mir-99a-5p expression levels were significantly decreased after eoc surgeries (1.8 to 1.3  p = 0.002)  indicating that mir-99a-5p reflects tumor burden. treatment with eoc-derived exosomes significantly increased mir-99a-5p expression in hpmcs. hpmcs transfected with mir-99a-5p promoted ovarian cancer invasion and exhibited increased expression levels of fibronectin and vitronectin. conclusions serum mir-99a-5p is significantly elevated in ovarian cancer patients. exosomal mir-99a-5p from eoc cells promotes cell invasion by affecting hpmcs through fibronectin and vitronectin upregulation and may serve as a target for inhibiting ovarian cancer progression.
5043,exercise as a therapeutic approach to improve blood pressure in patients with peripheral arterial disease: current literature and future directions.,introduction patients with symptomatic peripheral artery disease (pad) exhibit reduced functional capacity and increased mortality due to cardiovascular disease. although exercise has been a cornerstone for clinical treatment to improve walking capacity in patients with symptomatic pad  its effects on cardiovascular parameters have been poorly explored. areas covered: this review examines the role of exercise in improving blood pressure in patients with symptomatic pad and summarizes the current evidence on the acute (single bout of exercise) and chronic effects of walking and resistance exercise on blood pressure and its determinants. expert commentary: in patients with symptomatic pad  exercise promotes acute and chronic reductions in blood pressure. these effects were observed particularly after walking and resistance exercise. future studies are necessary to investigate the effects of other exercise modalities  especially non-painful exercises  on cardiovascular function in patients with symptomatic pad.
5045,impact of blood pressure variability on cardiovascular events in elderly patients with hypertension.,blood pressure variability is one of the characteristic features of hypertension in the elderly. however  its clinical significance remains to be determined. we therefore examined the impact of blood pressure variability on the development of cardiovascular events in elderly hypertensive patients. a total of 106 consecutive hypertensive patients aged more than 60 years old (mean age  73.9 +/- 8.1 years old; male  54%)  all of whom underwent 24-h ambulatory blood pressure monitoring  were followed up (median  34 months; range  3-60 months). during the follow-up period  39 cardiovascular events were observed  including 14 cases of cerebral infarction and 7 cases of acute myocardial infarction. the coefficient of variation (cv) of 24-h systolic blood pressure (sbp) values was used as an index of blood pressure variability. the patients showed a mean cv value of 10.6%  and were divided into two groups according to this mean value as a cut-off point: a high cv group (n = 46) and a low cv group (n = 60). although baseline clinical characteristics were similar in the two groups  kaplan-meier plots for event-free survival revealed that the rate of cardiovascular events was significantly higher in high cv group than in low cv group (p < 0.05). cox's proportional hazards analysis showed that increased blood pressure variability (a high cv value of 24-h sbp) was an independent predictive variable for cardiovascular events. the cv value of daytime sbp and the sd value of both 24-h sbp and daytime sbp also had positive correlations with the onset of cardiovascular events. these results suggest that increased blood pressure variability may be an independent risk factor for cardiovascular events in elderly hypertensive patients.
5047,genetic variability in a frozen batch of mcf-7 cells invisible in routine authentication affecting cell function,common recommendations for cell line authentication  annotation and quality control fall short addressing genetic heterogeneity. within the human toxome project  we demonstrate that there can be marked cellular and phenotypic heterogeneity in a single batch of the human breast adenocarcinoma cell line mcf-7 obtained directly from a cell bank that are invisible with the usual cell authentication by short tandem repeat (str) markers. str profiling just fulfills the purpose of authentication testing  which is to detect significant cross-contamination and cell line misidentification. heterogeneity needs to be examined using additional methods. this heterogeneity can have serious consequences for reproducibility of experiments as shown by morphology  estrogenic growth dose-response  whole genome gene expression and untargeted mass-spectroscopy metabolomics for mcf-7 cells. using comparative genomic hybridization (cgh)  differences were traced back to genetic heterogeneity already in the cells from the original frozen vials from the same atcc lot  however  str markers did not differ from atcc reference for any sample. these findings underscore the need for additional quality assurance in good cell culture practice and cell characterization  especially using other methods such as cgh to reveal possible genomic heterogeneity and genetic drifts within cell lines.
5049,a diversity of beta diversities: straightening up a concept gone awry. part 1. defining beta diversity as a function of alpha and gamma diversity,the term beta diversity has been used to refer to a wide variety of phenomena. although all of these encompass some kind of compositional heterogeneity between places  many are not related to each other in any predictable way. the present two-part review aims to put the different phenomena that have been called beta diversity into a common conceptual framework  and to explain what each of them measures. in this first part  the focus is on defining a beta component of diversity. this involves deciding what diversity is and how the observed total or gamma diversity (g) is partitioned into alpha (a) and beta (b) components. several different definitions of ‘‘beta diversity’’ that result from these decisions have been used in the ecological literature. true beta diversity is obtained when the total effective number of species in a dataset (true gamma diversity g) is multiplicatively partitioned into the effective number of species per compositionally distinct
5051,diaspora bonds: tapping the diaspora during difficult times,india and israel have raised over us$35 billion by tapping into the wealth of their diaspora communities. these diaspora bonds represent a stable and cheap source of external finance  often when countries lost access to international capital markets. for diaspora investors  these bonds offer the opportunity to help their country of origin while also providing an investment opportunity. the potential for diaspora bonds is significant for many countries with large diasporas abroad. however  diaspora bond issuance from countries with weak governance and high sovereign risk may require support for institutional capacity building and credit enhancement from multilateral or bilateral agencies. haiti  for instance  could raise several hundred million dollars by issuing diaspora bonds provided a guarantee structure is created to build trust in the country's public institutions.
5053,omi/htra2 participates in age-related autophagic deficiency in rat liver,liver is a vital organ with many important functions  and the maintenance of normal hepatic function is necessary for health. as an essential mechanism for maintaining cellular homeostasis  autophagy plays an important role in ensuring normal organ function. studies have indicated that the degeneration of hepatic function is associated with autophagic deficiency in aging liver. however  the underlying mechanisms still remain unclear. the serine protease omi/htra2 belongs to the htra family and promotes apoptosis through either the caspase-dependent or caspase-independent pathway. mice lacking omi/htra2 exhibited progeria symptoms (premature aging)  which were similar to the characteristics of autophagic insufficiency. in this study  we demonstrated that both the protein level of omi/htra2 in liver and hepatic function were reduced as rats aged  and there was a positive correlation between them. furthermore  several autophagy-related proteins (lc3ii/i  beclin-1 and lamp2) in rat liver were decreased significantly with the increasing of age. finally  inhibition of omi/htra2 resulted in reduced autophagy and hepatic dysfunction. in conclusion  these results suggest that omi/htra2 participates in age-related autophagic deficiency in rat liver. this study may offer a novel insight into the mechanism involved in liver aging.
5055,art adherence clubs: a long-term retention strategy for clinically stable patients receiving antiretroviral therapy,the art-adherence club model described here provides patient-friendly access to antiretroviral therapy (art) for clinically stable patients. it reduces the burden that stable patients place on healthcare facilities  increasing clinical human resources for new patients  and those clinically unstable and at risk of failing treatment. in the model  30 patients are allocated to an art club. the group meets either at a facility or community venue for less than an hour every 2 months. group meetings are facilitated by a lay club facilitator who provides a quick clinical assessment  referral where necessary  and dispenses pre-packed art. from january 2011 to december 2012  after adoption for phased rollout by the western cape government  more than 600 art clubs were established in cape town  providing art care to over 16 000 patients. this extensive  rapid rollout demonstrates active buy-in from patients and facility staff. south africa should consider a similar model for national rollout.
5057,influence of antidepressant therapy on sick leave in primary care: adas  a comparative observational study,background compared to other european countries  sweden's yearly sick leave expenditures are moderate. common mental disorders (cmd) are important causes of sick leave  affecting 10-15% of the adult population. a swedish register based study indicates that antidepressant therapy for patients on long-term sick leave for cmd leads to longer sick leave and higher frequency of non-time-limited sickness compensation as compared to psychotherapy  work oriented rehabilitation  and other therapies. aim to verify if patients on antidepressant therapy and on long-term sick leave for depression  anxiety and stress-related mental disorders have a longer sick leave than patients treated with other therapies. method prospective  observational study at 28 primary health care centers in the region västra götaland  sweden  including 192 patients on sick leave for cmd. outcome measures were gross and net sick leave days. interpretation there were no significant differences in sick leave days (gross or net) due to cmd when comparing the patients treated and not treated with antidepressants during the 12 month observation period. the groups differed at baseline only concerning frequency of exhaustion disorder  with a higher frequency of exhaustion disorder in the group without antidepressants. analysis of other possible factors associated with shorter or longer sick leave only showed associations with the patient's own perception of possibility of returning to work in near and distant future. an important factor associated with longer sick leave was the patient's own perception of possibility of return to present workplace. as cmd are important causes of sick leave and sick leave costs  this factor should be highlighted in future research on the rehabilitation process.
5059,prostaglandin e2 mediates sensory nerve regulation of bone homeostasis,whether sensory nerve can sense bone density or metabolic activity to control bone homeostasis is unknown. here we found prostaglandin e2 (pge2) secreted by osteoblastic cells activates pge2 receptor 4 (ep4) in sensory nerves to regulate bone formation by inhibiting sympathetic activity through the central nervous system. pge2 secreted by osteoblasts increases when bone density decreases as demonstrated in osteoporotic animal models. ablation of sensory nerves erodes the skeletal integrity. specifically  knockout of the ep4 gene in the sensory nerves or cyclooxygenase-2 (cox2) in the osteoblastic cells significantly reduces bone volume in adult mice. sympathetic tone is increased in sensory denervation models  and propranolol  a β2-adrenergic antagonist  rescues bone loss. furthermore  injection of sw033291  a small molecule to increase pge2 level locally  significantly boostes bone formation  whereas the effect is obstructed in ep4 knockout mice. thus  we show that pge2 mediates sensory nerve to control bone homeostasis and promote regeneration.
5061,prevalence of late-life depression and gap in mental health service use across european regions.,background we aimed to determine the prevalence and gap in use of mental health services for late-life depression in four european regions (western europe  scandinavia  southern europe and central and eastern europe) and explore socio-demographic  social and health-related factors associated with it. methods we conducted a cross-sectional study based on data from the survey on health  ageing and retirement in europe. participants were a population-based sample of 28 796 persons (53% women  mean age 74 years old) residing in europe. mental health service use was estimated using information about the diagnosis or treatment for depression. results the prevalence of late-life depression was 29% in the whole sample and was highest in southern europe (35%)  followed by central and eastern europe (32%)  western europe (26%) and lowest in scandinavia (17%). factors that had the strongest association with depression were total number of chronic diseases  pain  limitations in instrumental activities of daily living  grip strength and cognitive impairment. the gap in mental health service use was 79%. conclusions we suggest that interventions to decrease the burden of late-life depression should be targeted at individuals that are affected by chronic somatic comorbidities and are limited in mental and physical functioning. promotion of help-seeking of older adults  de-stigmatization of mental illness and education of general practitioners could help decrease the gap in mental health service utilization.
5063,r: a language for data analysis and graphics,abstract in this article we discuss our experience designing and implementing a statistical computing language. in developing this new language  we sought to combine what we felt were useful features from two existing computer languages. we feel that the new language provides advantages in the areas of portability  computational efficiency  memory management  and scoping.
5065,ggplot2: elegant graphics for data analysis,ggplot2: elegant graphics for data analysis is a new addition to the user! series by springer  probably the fastest expanding source of resources for computational statistics at the current moment. the books in this series are all linked with r  either presenting a new package developed by the own authors of the book or describing how to applying statistical techniques with the different packages available in r. ggplot2 is an implementation in r of the grammar of graphics (wilkinson 2005) a systematic approach to the specification of statistical graphics that was introduced in a book previously reviewed in the journal of statistical software by cox (2007). this implementation has been developed by hadley wickham  who is also the author of the book reviewed here.
5067,inhibition of the dipeptidyl peptidase dpp4 (cd26) reveals il-33-dependent eosinophil-mediated control of tumor growth,post-translational modification of chemokines mediated by the dipeptidyl peptidase dpp4 (cd26) has been shown to negatively regulate lymphocyte trafficking  and its inhibition enhances t cell migration and tumor immunity by preserving functional chemokine cxcl10. by extending those initial findings to pre-clinical models of hepatocellular carcinoma and breast cancer  we discovered a distinct mechanism by which inhibition of dpp4 improves anti-tumor responses. administration of the dpp4 inhibitor sitagliptin resulted in higher concentrations of the chemokine ccl11 and increased migration of eosinophils into solid tumors. enhanced tumor control was preserved in mice lacking lymphocytes and was ablated after depletion of eosinophils or treatment with degranulation inhibitors. we further demonstrated that tumor-cell expression of the alarmin il-33 was necessary and sufficient for eosinophil-mediated anti-tumor responses and that this mechanism contributed to the efficacy of checkpoint-inhibitor therapy. these findings provide insight into il-33- and eosinophil-mediated tumor control  revealed when endogenous mechanisms of dpp4 immunoregulation are inhibited. eosinophils have been described mainly in allergy settings but are increasingly appreciated as being involved in other aspects of immunity. albert and colleagues use a clinically approved inhibitor of the dipeptidyl peptidase dpp4 to facilitate the recruitment of eosinophils to mouse tumors  where they are essential in tumor destruction.
5069,longitudinal changes in maternal corin and mid-regional proatrial natriuretic peptide in women at risk of pre-eclampsia,objectives corin  an atrial natriuretic peptide-converting enzyme  has been found to promote trophoblast invasion and spiral artery remodeling. reduced maternal plasma atrial natriuretic peptide (anp) levels and elevated corin levels have been reported in pregnancies complicated by pe. the aim of this study was to investigate longitudinal changes in maternal plasma levels of corin and midregional proatrial natriuretic peptide (mr-panp) in pregnancies that develop preeclampsia (pe) and gestational hypertension (gh). methods nested case control study drawn from a larger prospective longitudinal study in singleton pregnancies identified by screening at 11 + 0 − 13 + 6 weeks’ gestation as being at high risk for pe. blood samples were taken every four weeks until delivery. values were compared in pregnancies that developed preterm-pe (requiring delivery before 37 weeks)  term-pe  gh  and those that remained normotensive. the distribution of maternal plasma corin and panp were made gaussian after log 10 transformation. analysis of repeated measures with multilevel mixed-effects linear model (fixed effects and random effects) was performed. the multilevel model was compared to one-level model by the likelihood radio (lr) test. results a total of 471 samples were analyzed from 122 women  including 85 that remained normotensive  12 that developed gh  13 term-pe and 12 preterm-pe. in the normotensive group  log10corin levels were associated with gestational age ( p p  = 0.001). in the gh and term-pe groups  corin did not differ significantly from the normotensive group ( p  = 0.64 and p  = 0.16  respectively). compared to the normotensive group  mr-panp levels were significantly higher in the pregnancies that developed preterm-pe and gh ( p  = 0.046 and p  = 0.019  respectively)  but not term-pe ( p  = 0.47). conclusions maternal plasma corin and mr-panp could potentially be useful biomarkers for the prediction of preterm-pe. disclosures a. khalil: research support recipient; commercial interests: uscom  roche  alere  nicom  q-ffn; speaker: roche.
5071,cost-effectiveness in health and medicine,1. cost-effectiveness analysis as a guide to resource allocation in health: roles and limitations 2. theoretical foundations of cost-effectiveness analysis 3. framing and designing the cost-effectiveness analysis 4. identifying and valuing outcomes 5. assessing the effectiveness of health interventions 6. estimating costs in cost-effectiveness analysis 7. time preference 8. reflecting uncertainty in cost-effectiveness analysis 9. reporting cost-effectiveness studies and results appendix a: summary of recommendations for the reference case appendix b: cost-effectiveness of strategies to prevent neural tube defects appendix c: the cost-effectiveness of dietary and pharmacologic therapy for cholesterol reduction in adults
5073,to err is human. building a safer health system,human beings  make errors healthcare services is a complex industry prone to accidents. the iom report [1] points out that some systems are more prone to accidents than others. when a system fails there are often multiple faults. in healthcare human errors are the greatest contributors to accidents however when human error is to blame it often depends upon failures within the system. these failures exists in the system before the error occurs  the same as with latent errors which are difficult to identify since they may be hidden in computers or within the various managerial layers. most of the errors can be prevented by designing systems that make it hard for people to do the wrong thing and easy for people to do the right thing. in healthcare  this means designing processes that are able to ensure that patients are safe from accidental injury. as healthcare and the system that delivers it become more complex  the opportunities for errors abound. the iom report “to err is human” proposes an approach for reducing medical errors and improving patient safety. the environment within which this occurs has a critical influence on quality. this influence may contain two dimensions; the first consists of the domain of quality which includes the practice that is consistent with current medical knowledge. the second dimension consists of forces in the external environment that can drive quality improvement in the delivery system. although the risk of dying as a result of a medical error  far surpasses the risk of dying in an airline accident  public attention has been more focused on improving safety in the airline industry than in healthcare systems. because of the absence of standardized nomenclature  it is important to define what an error is and what is an adverse event  the iom report defines them in the following way: “an error is the failure of a planned action to be completed as intended or the use of a wrong plan to achieve an aim. ” an adverse event is an injury caused by medical management rather than the underlying condition of the patient. an adverse event attributable to error is a “preventable adverse event”.
5075,advanced human nutrition,advanced human nutrition  second edition provides an in-depth overview of the human body and details why nutrients are important from a biochemical  physiological  and molecular perspective. figures help illustrate the content and bring the meaning to life to enhance the reader's understanding. complex pathways  for example  are presented in a student-friendly fashion  as are diagrams that illustrate metabolism and the molecular functions of nutrients. multiple elements within the text  such as "here's where you have been" and "here's where you are going " help drive home key points from the chapter and provide real-world examples to bring the content to life. topics covered include: * cell aging  damage and repair systems * human nutrition  digestion  and absorption with relation to organs  exocrine and endocrine functions  histology  and absorptive activities * microflora and satiety/hunger mechanisms * macronutrients during exercise and the role of liquids and sports drinks * prevalent diseases in western cultures such as coronary heart disease  cancer  and osteoporosis an instructor's manual  powerpoint presentations  and a testbank are available are free downloads.
5077,vegetarian vs. conventional diabetic diet – a 1-year follow-up,abstract objective our previous 6-month  randomized study demonstrated the beneficial effect of a vegetarian (v) compared to a conventional diet (c) with similar caloric restriction on cardiovascular risk factors for patients with type 2 diabetes (t2d)  namely increased insulin sensitivity  reduced body weight  reduced volume of visceral and subcutaneous fat  decreased ldl-cholesterol and improved oxidative stress markers and chosen adipokines. we conducted post-trial monitoring to determine whether the improved outcomes persisted 1 year after the end of the study. methods 62 subjects with t2d who completed the study were asked to come for a 1-year follow-up to measure weight  waist circumference  hba1c and blood lipids. no attempts were made to maintain their previously assigned diets. results 44 patients (71%) attended the post-trial monitoring. hypoglycemic agents were increased by 14% in v and by 26% in c; insulin therapy was introduced in 5% in v and in 13% in c one year after the end of the intervention. neither weight nor waist circumference changed significantly in either group. hba1c increased ( p  ≤ 0.05) similarly in both groups (+0.49 ± 1.04% in v vs. +0.42 ± 0.8% in c). blood lipids did not change in either group. conclusion one year after the end of the intervention  the positive effects of a vegetarian diet on cardiovascular risk factors compared to a conventional diet were partially maintained.
5079,contraceptive practices of women requesting termination of pregnancy : a study from china,abstract in order to develop a program for prevention of unwanted pregnancies  we conducted a survey of contraceptive practices and reasons for contraceptive failures of 1520 women seeking abortion at eight large hospitals in zheng zhou city  henan province  p.r. china  during the period from march 1996 to may 1996. the most frequent cause of the unplanned pregnancy was contraceptive failure (71.9%); 61.7% (938) of these current pregnancies were potentially predictable by virtue of nonuse of contraception (427) or by recognition of contraceptive failures (511). among the contraceptive failures  the proportion of condom mishaps was the highest (29.7%)  next was iud failures (23.5%)  then rhythm miscalculation (15.9%). most of abortion seekers (77.1%) used some contraceptive methods previously. but  only 19.7% of them used a contraceptive method at the first sexual intercourse. among 1520 abortion seekers  57.6% had used condoms previously; 50.9% of the condom users had at least one instance of condom mishap. the rhythm method had been used by 31.7% of abortion seekers previously; 59.1% of the rhythm users had at least one instance of rhythm failure. of the 16.8% of abortion seekers who had used pills  58.0% of them had pill failures. among condom and pill failures  most of them (46.4% condom users and 56.0% pill users) belonged to the user failure category (poor complicance). of those seeking abortion  56.4% had experienced at least one instance of previous abortion; 5.3% had experienced previous abortions at least two times. emergency contraception had been utilized by only 10 subjects prior to this current pregnancy.
5081,wolff's headache and other head pain.,there has never been a book on headache that came close to that of the late harold wolff. the second edition was published 10 years ago; it was and is a masterpiece of writing  an exhaustive yet engrossing delineation of wolff's long study and understanding of headache. the new edition  revised by dalessio  serves to bring certain aspects of headache up to date  most of them having to do with drug therapy. the emphasis on total therapy rather than simply drug therapy has been preserved  however. dalessio has altered slightly the form of the book  although the "new chapters" on cluster headache and trigeminal neuralgia are merely transplants from other sections of the original. migraine  the main part of the book  has been reshaped  with some anecdotal portions removed  but little has been added. it is of interest that nothing in the section on observations of methysergide (uml-491 in wolff's
5083,novel risk factors for systemic atherosclerosis: a comparison of c-reactive protein  fibrinogen  homocysteine  lipoprotein(a)  and standard cholesterol screening as predictors of peripheral arterial disease,contextseveral novel risk factors for atherosclerosis have recently been proposed  but few comparative data exist to guide clinical use of these emerging biomarkers. objectiveto compare the predictive value of 11 lipid and nonlipid biomarkers as risk factors for development of symptomatic peripheral arterial disease (pad).design  setting  and participantsnested case-control study using plasma samples collected at baseline from a prospective cohort of 14 916 initially healthy us male physicians aged 40 to 84 years  of whom 140 subsequently developed symptomatic pad (cases); 140 age- and smoking status–matched men who remained free of vascular disease during an average 9-year follow-up period were randomly selected as controls. main outcome measureincident pad  as determined by baseline total cholesterol  high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (hdl-c)  low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (ldl-c)  total cholesterol–hdl-c ratio  triglycerides  homocysteine  c-reactive protein (crp)  lipoprotein(a)  fibrinogen  and apolipoproteins (apo) a-i and b-100.resultsin univariate analyses  plasma levels of total cholesterol (p<.001)  ldl-c (p = .001)  triglycerides (p = .001)  apo b-100 (p = .001)  fibrinogen (p = .02)  crp (p = .006)  and the total cholesterol–hdl-c ratio (p<.001) were all significantly higher at baseline among men who subsequently developed pad compared with those who did not  while levels of hdl-c (p = .009) and apo a-i (p = .05) were lower. nonsignificant baseline elevations of lipoprotein(a) (p = .40) and homocysteine (p = .90) were observed. in multivariable analyses  the total cholesterol–hdl-c ratio was the strongest lipid predictor of risk (relative risk [rr] for those in the highest vs lowest quartile  3.9; 95% confidence interval [ci]  1.7-8.6)  while crp was the strongest nonlipid predictor (rr for the highest vs lowest quartile  2.8; 95% ci  1.3-5.9). in assessing joint effects  addition of crp to standard lipid screening significantly improved risk prediction models based on lipid screening alone (p<.001).conclusionsof 11 atherothrombotic biomarkers assessed at baseline  the total cholesterol–hdl-c ratio and crp were the strongest independent predictors of development of peripheral arterial disease. c-reactive protein provided additive prognostic information over standard lipid measures.
5085,diabetes in pregnancy: management of diabetes and its complications from preconception to the postnatal period (ng3),in february 2015 the national institute for health and care excellence (nice) published new guidance (ng3) on the management of diabetes in pregnancy. care teams need to be aware of this guidance and implement its recommendations. these include preconception care with target hba1c 48 mmol/mol. women at risk of gestational diabetes mellitus (gdm) should have a 75 g oral glucose tolerance test (ogtt). diagnostic criteria for gdm have changed to fasting glucose of 5.6 mmol/l or above or 2 hour glucose of 7.8 mmol/l or above. glycaemic targets in all diabetic pregnancies have changed to fasting glucose below 5.3 mmol/l (4–5.2 mmol/l if on insulin) and 1 hour postprandial glucose below 7.8 mmol/l if these can be achieved safely. continuous glucose monitoring and insulin pump therapy should not be used routinely but can be used if glycaemic control is problematic. capillary ketone testing should be routine for women with type 1 diabetes when hyperglycaemic and for all women with diabetes including  gdm when acutely unwell. more flexibility is offered around recommended delivery timing: 37+0 weeks to 38+6 weeks for women with types 1 and 2 diabetes; prior to 40+6 in gdm (and earlier if complications arise). postnatal testing following gsm should be by fasting glucose (not ogtt) at 6–13 weeks post partum. testing later than this can use hba1c. introducing these changes will have resource implications  including a likely increase in the number of women diagnosed with gdm.
5087,rembrandt scholz,this paper examines the potential impact of changes in medical care on changing population health in lithuania  hungary and romania  with west germany included for comparison. we used the concept of deaths from certain causes that should not occur in the presence of timely and effective health care (amenable mortality) and calculated the contribution of changes in mortality from these conditions to changes in life expectancy between birth and age 75 [e (0-75)] for the periods 1980/81 to 1988 and 1992 to 1997. temporary life expectancy improved consistently in west germany (men: 2.7 years  women: 1.6 years). in contrast  gains were relatively small in the other countries  except among hungarian women  who gained 1.3 years. romanian men lost 1.3 years. in the 1980s  falling infant mortality made a substantial contribution to improvements in temporary life expectancy in all countries  of about a quarter to half a year. of this  more than half can be attributed to amenable conditions. at older ages  falling amenable mortality contributed about 40% among those aged over 40 in germany and  to a lesser extent  hungary  while causing a loss of life expectancy in romania. in the 1990s  improvements in infant mortality continued to make substantial contributions to life expectancy in lithuania and hungary but had little impact in either germany or romania. among adults  improvements in amenable mortality continued to benefit hungarians and west germans. in lithuania  up to two-thirds of the gain in temporary life expectancy were attributable to falling mortality from ischaemic heart disease whereas medical care otherwise seems to have had a negative impact. romanian men and women experienced increases in amenable mortality that contributed up to a half of the overall loss of life expectancy. our findings suggest that during the last 20 years changes in medical care had considerable impact  positively as well as negatively  on changing mortality in selected central and eastern european countries.
5089,prevalence of the metabolic syndrome among us adults: findings from the third national health and nutrition examination survey,metabolic syndrome is diagnosed when three or more of the following criteria are met: abdominal obesity (waist circumference more than 102 cm in men and 88 cm in women); hypertriglyceridemia of 150 mg/dl or above; a high-density lipoprotein (hdl) cholesterol level less than 40 mg/dl in men or 50 mg/dl in women; blood pressure of 130/85 mm hg or higher; or fasting glucose of at least 110 mg/dl. individuals with metabolic syndrome are likelier than others to develop diabetes and cardiovascular disease and have increased mortality from all causes (and from cardiovascular disease in particular). the investigators attempted to determine the prevalence of the syndrome in the united states by analyzing data on 8814 men and women 20 years of age or older who took part in the third national health and nutrition examination survey in the years 1988 to 1994. this is a cross-sectional health survey of a sample of the noninstitutionalized civilian american population. the overall age-adjusted prevalence of metabolic syndrome was 23.7%. the prevalence rose from 6.7% in persons 20 to 29 years of age to 42% in those aged 70 years and more. there was virtually no gender-related difference in prevalence rates for the combined racial groups. metabolic syndrome was most prevalent in mexican americans and least prevalent in whites  african americans  and "others. " among both african americans and mexican americans  women had higher prevalence rates than men. extrapolating from age-specific prevalence rates and us census counts from the year 2000  47 million us residents have metabolic syndrome. considering its prevalence  it seems important to estimate the direct medical costs of metabolic syndrome. in the great majority of cases the critical causes are improper nutrition and insufficient physical activity  emphasizing the importance of controlling obesity and encouraging physical activity in the united states.
5091,preconception care and the risk of congenital anomalies in the offspring of women with diabetes mellitus: a meta-analysis,preconception care (pcc) and strict periconceptional glycemic control are both used to minimize the risk of congenital birth defects in offspring of women with type 1 or type 2 diabetes mellitus (dm). these malformations are ascribed in large measure to poor periconceptional control. this study evaluated pcc by a meta-analysis of published studies of pcc in women with dm  published from 1970 to 2000. two reviewers independently abstracted the data  and the rate and relative risk (rr) of major and minor malformations were pooled from eligible studies using a random effects model. early first-trimester values of glycosylated hemoglobin were recorded. eight retrospective and eight prospective cohort studies were included; they were carried out in europe  the united kingdom  the united states  and israel. most participants had type 1 dm  but three studies included women with type 2 dm. women given pcc tended to be about 2 years older on average than the others. methods of pcc were quite variable  although most centers provided some maternal education about the pregnancy risks associated with poor glycemic control. in seven studies reporting early gestational glycosylated hemoglobin values  mean levels were consistently lower in pcc patients. among 2104 offspring  the pooled rate for major and minor anomalies was 2.4% in the pcc group and 7.7% in non-pcc recipients  for a pooled rr of 0.32. among 2651 offspring  major malformations were less prevalent in the pcc group (2.1 vs. 6.5%; pooled rr = 0.36). comparable results were obtained when only prospective studies were analyzed and in studies where the infant examiners were unaware of the mothers' pcc status. the lowest risk of major anomalies was in a study that administered folic acid periconceptionally to its pcc recipients; the rr was 0.11. this meta-analysis  which included both retrospective and prospective studies  demonstrates an association of pcc with a significantly lower risk of congenital anomalies in the offspring of women with established dm. the lowered risk was accompanied by significantly lower glycosylated hemoglobin values in the first trimester in recipients of pcc.
5093,older people at the end of life: delivery of care and needs for improvement from the perspective of bereaved relatives,background due to demographic changes with an increasing number of older people with chronic illness and multimorbidity palliative care for geriatric patients has become increasingly important. the aim of this study was to explore the perspective of bereaved relatives with regard to their experiences and expectations concerning the delivery of care for older people in the last phase of life. methods qualitative interviews with 12 relatives of deceased older patients (aged 60 years or older). the interviews were recorded  transcribed  coded and analysed using the approach of qualitative content analysis according to mayring. results the bereaved relatives perceived that the care for geriatric patients in the last phase of life was inappropriate in various respects. they criticised overtreatment (e.g. skin cancer diagnostic) as well as unmet needs (e.g. treatment of pain  patient centred care  communication). family doctors were seen as the primary contact persons in the professional health system. conclusions from the perspective of bereaved relatives care for older people in the last phase of life has serious deficits. they criticise an inappropriate priority setting and the disregard of palliative care. there is a need for better communication and information exchange regarding the needs and expectations of patients and relatives  and regarding the targets of treatment. therefore it may be helpful to use advance directives more intensively. furthermore  it seems to be necessary to strengthen generalist palliative care particularly delivered by family doctors and community nurses.
5095,beta-band oscillations--signalling the status quo?,in this review  we consider the potential functional role of beta-band oscillations  which at present is not yet well understood. we discuss evidence from recent studies on top-down mechanisms involved in cognitive processing  on the motor system and on the pathophysiology of movement disorders that suggest a unifying hypothesis: beta-band activity seems related to the maintenance of the current sensorimotor or cognitive state. we hypothesize that beta oscillations and/or coupling in the beta-band are expressed more strongly if the maintenance of the status quo is intended or predicted  than if a change is expected. moreover  we suggest that pathological enhancement of beta-band activity is likely to result in an abnormal persistence of the status quo and a deterioration of flexible behavioural and cognitive control.
5097,the bitterest pills: the troubling story of antipsychotic drugs,© joanna moncrieff 2013. all rights reserved. a challenging reappraisal of the history of antipsychotics  revealing how they were transformed from neurological poisons into magical cures  their benefits exaggerated and their toxic effects minimized or ignored.
5099,chromosome numbers in certain indian species ofutricularia l. (lentibulariaceae),chromosome numbers from meiotic studies have been reported for the following species ofutricularia: u. aurea lour. (n=21);u. baouleënsis a. chev. (n=10);u. caerulea l. (n=20);u. inflexa var.stellaris (linn.f.) p. taylor (n=21);u. minutissima vahl (n=8);u. scandens benj. (n=6  7); andu. stricticaulis stapf (n=7). there are two cyto-races inu. scandens.
5101,construction of plant bacterial artificial chromosome (bac) libraries: an illustrated guide.,j. agric. genomics  5 abstract bacterial artificial chromosome (bac) libraries have become invaluable tools in plant genetic research. however  it is difficult for new practitioners to create plant bac libraries de novo because published protocols are not particularly detailed  and plant cells possess features that make isolation of clean  high molecular weight dna troublesome. in this document we present an illustrated  step-by-step protocol for constructing plant bac libraries. this protocol is sufficiently detailed to be of use to both new and experienced investigators. we hope that by reducing the obstacles to bac cloning in plants  we will foster new and accelerated progress in plant genomics.
5103,identification and transmission of piper yellow mottle virus and cucumber mosaic virus infecting black pepper (piper nigrum) in sri lanka,sri lankan black pepper with symptoms of yellow mottle disease contained a mixture of viruses: piper yellow mottle virus (pymv) particles (30 × 130 nm)  cucumber mosaic virus (cmv  30 nm diameter isometric particles)  and unidentified  isometric virus-like particles (30 nm diameter). an effective purification procedure is described for pymv. immunosorbent and conventional electron microscopy successfully detected badnavirus particles only when at least partially purified extracts were used. pymv was confirmed as the cause of the disease  with the other two viruses apparently playing no part in producing symptoms. pymv was transmitted by grafting  by the insect vectors citrus mealy bug (planococcus citri) and black pepper lace bug (diconocoris distanti)  but not by mechanical inoculation or through seeds. the cmv isolate was transmitted to indicator plants by mechanical inoculation and by the vector aphis gossypii  but not by myzus persicae; but neither mechanical nor insect transmission of cmv to black pepper was successful. a sensitive polymerase chain reaction assay was developed to detect pymv in black pepper.
5105,the growth and sporulation of the benign and malignant tertian malarial parasites in the culture tube and in the human host,researches on the cultivation of the parasites of malaria in liverpool were commenced some time ago at my suggestion by dr. sinton  and then  with better success  by drs. j. g. thomson and mclellan  and by dr. d. thomson. we are greatly obliged to sir edwin durning-lawrence  bart.  for giving us the services of dr. j. g. thomson for this important enquiry.— ronald ross  21st may  1913.
5107,diversity and evenness: a unifying notation and its consequences,three commonly used measures of diversity  simpson's index  shannon's entropy  and the total number of species  are related to renyi's definition of a generalized entropy. a unified concept of diversity is presented  according to which there is a continuum of possible diversity measures. in a sense which becomes apparent  these measures provide estimates of the effective number of species present  and differ only in their tendency to include or to ignore the relatively rarer species. the notion of the diversity of a community as opposed to that of a sample is examined  and is related to the asymptotic form of the species—abundance curve. a new and plausible definition of evenness is derived.
5109,cutadapt removes adapter sequences from high-throughput sequencing reads,when small rna is sequenced on current sequencing machines  the resulting reads are usually longer than the rna and therefore contain parts of the 3' adapter. that adapter must be found and removed error-tolerantly from each read before read mapping. previous solutions are either hard to use or do not offer required features  in particular support for color space data. as an easy to use alternative  we developed the command-line tool cutadapt  which supports 454  illumina and solid (color space) data  offers two adapter trimming algorithms  and has other useful features. cutadapt  including its mit-licensed source code  is available for download at http://code.google.com/p/cutadapt/
5111,stage-specific and differential notch dependency at the αβ and γδ t lineage bifurcation,summary signals transduced by notch receptors are indispensable for t cell specification and differentiation of αβ t lineage cells. however  the role of notch signals during αβ versus γδ t lineage decision remains controversial. here  we addressed this question by employing a clonal analysis of cd4 − cd8 − (dn) progenitor potential to position the divergence of αβ and γδ t cell lineages to the late dn2 to dn3 developmental stages. accordingly  αβ and γδ precursor frequencies within these t cell progenitor subsets were determined  both in the presence and absence of notch signaling through delta-like 1. notch signals were found to be critical for the dn to cd4 + cd8 + (dp) transition  irrespective of the identity (ptαβ or γδ) of the inducing t cell receptor complex  whereas γδ t cells developed from γδtcr-expressing t cell progenitors in the absence of further notch ligand interaction. collectively  our findings demonstrate a differential  stage-specific requirement for notch receptor-ligand interactions in the differentiation of αβ and γδ t cells from t cell progenitors.
5113,braf mutation predicts for mek-dependence in non-small cell lung cancer (nsclc).,5247 constitutive erk signaling is common in human cancer and is often the result of activating mutations of braf  ras and upstream receptor tyrosine kinases. missense braf kinase domain mutations are frequently observed in melanoma  colon and thyroid cancers and less frequently in lung and other cancer types. the vast majority (>90%) involve a glutamic acid for valine substitution at codon 600 (v600e)  which results in elevated braf kinase activity. braf kinase domain mutations with intermediate and impaired kinase activity have also been identified  most frequently in nsclc. we have previously reported that tumors with v600e braf mutation are selectively sensitive to mek inhibition. using the potent and selective mek1/2 inhibitor pd0325901 (pfizer)  we examined a panel of nsclc cell lines with mutant egfr  kras  and/or low  intermediate and high-activity braf kinase domain mutations for mek dependence. in all but one case  egfr  kras and braf mutations were mutually exclusive with the exception being a cell line with concurrent nras and intermediate activity braf mutations. consistent with our prior results  nsclc cells with v600e braf mutation were exquisitely sensitive to mek inhibition (pd0325901 ic50 of 2nm). the proliferation of cells with non-v600e mutations  including those with high (g469a)  intermediate (l597v) and impaired (g466v) kinase activities  was also mek dependent with ic50’s ranging between 2.7 and 80 nm. inhibition of mek in these cells resulted in downregulation of cyclin d1 and g1 growth arrest  with variable induction of apoptosis. despite high basal erk activity  nsclc tumor cells with egfr mutation were uniformly resistant to mek inhibition (at doses of up to 500nm)  despite effective and prolonged inhibition of erk phosphorylation. tumor cells with ras mutation had a more variable response  with some cell lines demonstrating sensitivity  while others were completely resistant. there was no correlation between basal erk activity and sensitivity to mek inhibition. a strong inverse correlation between akt activity and pd0325901 sensitivity was observed. these results suggest that mek inhibition may be useful therapeutically in tumors with v600e and non-v600e braf kinase domain mutations. the results also suggest that inhibition of both mek and akt signaling may be required in nsclc tumors with high basal akt activity.
5115,induced pluripotent stem cell lines derived from human somatic cells.,somatic cell nuclear transfer allows trans-acting factors present in the mammalian oocyte to reprogram somatic cell nuclei to an undifferentiated state. we show that four factors (oct4  sox2  nanog  and lin28) are sufficient to reprogram human somatic cells to pluripotent stem cells that exhibit the essential characteristics of embryonic stem (es) cells. these induced pluripotent human stem cells have normal karyotypes  express telomerase activity  express cell surface markers and genes that characterize human es cells  and maintain the developmental potential to differentiate into advanced derivatives of all three primary germ layers. such induced pluripotent human cell lines should be useful in the production of new disease models and in drug development  as well as for applications in transplantation medicine  once technical limitations (for example  mutation through viral integration) are eliminated.
5117,the rat brain in stereotaxic coordinates,the preceding editions made "the rat brain in stereotaxic coordinates" the second most cited book in science. this fifth edition is the result of years of research providing the user with the drawings of the completely new set of coronal sections  now from one rat  and with significantly improved resolution by adding a third additional section level as compared to earlier editions. numerous new nuclei and structures also have been identified. the drawings are presented in two color  providing a much better contrast for use  and the accompanying cd-rom contains all of the drawings from the atlas as well as the corresponding color micrographs (which are not included in the book). affordable  comprehensive  compact  and convenient  the fifth edition continues the legacy of this major neuroscience publication and is a guide to all students and scientists who study the rat brain. it contains 161 coronal diagrams based on a single brain and includes a cd-rom featuring all of the drawings from the book  plus the accompanying color micrographs that are not in the printed atlas. the delineations are drawn entirely new from a new set of sections. the diagrams are spaced at constant 120 m intervals resulting in the high resolution and convenience of use. the drawings use blue color lines and black labels to facilitate extraction of information. the stereotaxic grid was derived using the same techniques that produced the widely praised stereotaxic grid of the previous editions. over 1000 structures are identified  a number for the first time in this edition.
5119,the ulp1 sumo isopeptidase distinct domains required for viability  nuclear envelope localization  and substrate specificity,protein modification by the ubiquitin-like sumo protein contributes to many cellular regulatory mechanisms. in saccharomyces cerevisiae  both sumoylating and desumoylating activities are essential for viability. of its two known desumoylating enzymes  ubl-specific protease (ulp)1 and ulp2/smt4  ulp1 is specifically required for cell cycle progression. a ∼200-residue segment  the ulp domain (ud)  is conserved among ulps and includes a core cysteine protease domain that is even more widespread. here we demonstrate that the ulp1 ud by itself can support wild-type growth rates and in vitro can cleave sumo from substrates. however  in cells expressing only the ud of ulp1  many sumo conjugates accumulate to high levels  indicating that the nonessential ulp1 nh2-terminal domain is important for activity against a substantial fraction of sumoylated targets. the nh2-terminal domain also includes sequences necessary and sufficient to concentrate ulp1 at nuclear envelope sites. remarkably  nh2-terminally deleted ulp1 variants are able  unlike full-length ulp1  to suppress defects of cells lacking the divergent ulp2 isopeptidase. thus  the nh2-terminal regulatory domain of ulp1 restricts ulp1 activity toward certain sumoylated proteins while enabling the cleavage of others. these data define key functional elements of ulp1 and strongly suggest that subcellular localization is a physiologically significant constraint on sumo isopeptidase specificity.
5121,micrornas: small rnas with a big role in gene regulation,key pointsmicrornas (mirnas) are a family of ∼21–25-nucleotide small rnas that negatively regulate gene expression at the post-transcriptional level. the founding members of the mirna family  lin-4 and let-7  were identified through genetic screens for defects in the temporal regulation of caenorhabditis elegans larval development. owing to genome-wide cloning efforts  hundreds of mirnas have now been identified in almost all metazoans  including flies  plants and mammals. mirnas exhibit temporally and spatially regulated expression patterns during diverse developmental and physiological processes. most of the mirnas that have been characterized so far seem to regulate aspects of development  including larval developmental transitions and neuronal development in c. elegans  growth control and apoptosis in drosophila melanogaster  haematopoietic differentiation in mammals  and leaf development  flower development and embryogenesis in arabidopsis thaliana. the majority of the animal mirnas that have been characterized so far affect protein synthesis from their target mrnas. on the other hand  most of the plant mirnas studied so far direct the cleavage of their targets. the degree of complementarity between a mirna and its target  at least in part  determines the regulatory mechanism. in animals  primary transcripts of mirnas are processed sequentially by two rnase-iii enzymes  drosha and dicer  into a small  imperfect dsrna duplex (mirna:mirna*) that contains both the mature mirna strand and its complementary strand (mirna*). relative instability at the 5′ end of the mature mirna leads to the asymmetric assembly of the mature mirna into the effector complex  the rna-induced silencing complex (risc).ago proteins are a key component of the risc. multiple ago homologues in various metazoan genomes indicate the existence of multiple riscs that carry out related but specific biological functions. bioinformatic prediction of mirna targets has provided an important tool to explore the functions of mirnas. however  the overall success rate of such predictions remains to be determined by experimental validation. abstractmicrornas are a family of small  non-coding rnas that regulate gene expression in a sequence-specific manner. the two founding members of the microrna family were originally identified in caenorhabditis elegans as genes that were required for the timed regulation of developmental events. since then  hundreds of micrornas have been identified in almost all metazoan genomes  including worms  flies  plants and mammals. micrornas have diverse expression patterns and might regulate various developmental and physiological processes. their discovery adds a new dimension to our understanding of complex gene regulatory networks.
5123,genome downsizing in polyploid plants,all else being equal  polyploids are expected to have larger c-values (amount of dna in the unreplicated gametic nucleus) than their diploid progenitors  increasing in direct proportion with ploidy. this expectation is observed in some polyploid series  especially those newly formed  but there are examples suggesting that c-values in particular polyploids are less than expected. the availability of the angiosperm dna c-values database (http:// www.rbgkew.org.uk/cvavhomepage.html) has allowed this question to be addressed across a broad range of angiosperms and has revealed striking results deviating from expectation: (i) mean 1c dna amount did not increase in direct proportion with ploidy  and (ii) mean dna amount per basic genome (calculated by dividing the 2c value by ploidy) tended to decrease with increasing ploidy. these results suggest that loss of dna following polyploid formation  or genome downsizing  may be a widespread phenomenon of considerable biological significance. recent advances in our understanding of the molecular events that take place following polyploid formation together with new data on how dna amounts can both increase and decrease provide some insights into how genome downsizing may take place. the nature of the evolutionary forces that may be driving dna loss are also discussed.
5125,stem cells cancer and cancer stem cells,stem cells are defined as cells able to both extensively self-renew and differentiate into progenitors. research data show that more resistant stem cells than common cancer cells exist in cancer patients. to identify unrecognized differences between cancer stem cells and cancer cells might be able to develope effective classification diagnose and treat ment for cancer.
5127,detection of sugarcane bacilliform virus isolate and its influence on yield and quality of cane in yunnan,sugarcane bacilliform virus(scbv) was detected by pcr from sugarcane showing chlorosis and mottle symptom from kaiyuan yunnan province. part sequence of replicase gene of the isolate scbv-kaiyuan was determined. sequence analysis indicated that the 589 bp of scbv-kaiyuan shared identities of 73.2%-74.0% and 83.1%-84.1% at nucleotide and amino acid levels with scbv-australia respectively 66.7%-68.4% and 65.6%-67.7% with scbv-morocco. the quality and yield of the sugarcane infected with scbv-kaiyuan was also investigated. the juice extraction sucrose content gravity purity and average stalk weight were decreased 1.55% 1.24% 2.22% and 0.26 kg in plants infected with scbv-kaiyuan but reducing sugar was increased by 0.21% in infected plants.
5129,review on clinically developing antibiotics,the world is running out of antibiotics. between 1940 and 1962  more than 20 new classes of antibiotics were marketed. since then  only two new classes of antibiotics were marketed. now  not enough analogues are reaching the market to stem the tide of antibiotic resistance  particularly among gram-negative bacteria which indicates the need of novel antibiotics for their effective action. this review describes those antibiotics in late-stage clinical development. most of them belong to existing antibiotic classes and a few with a narrow spectrum of activity are novel compounds directed against novel targets. the reasons for some of the past failures to find new molecules and a path forward to help attract investments to fund the discovery of new antibiotics are described.
5131,the reclamation of brine generated from desalination process by bipolar membrane electrodialysis,abstract some techno-economical analyses and environmental impact evaluation have proved that bipolar membrane electrodialysis (bmed) is feasible for the reclamation of industrial saline water. however  to date  the technology cannot be put into practice due to some unsolved application-oriented problems  such as the requirements of bmed for feed solution  the availability of the produced acid and base  relatively high salt concentration of the effluent  and relatively low desalinating efficiency and capacity. in this work  a novel hybrid process  which coupled conventional electrodialysis installed with monovalent selective cation-exchange membranes with bmed running in a constant-voltage mode  was designed to reclaim brine generated from surface water desalination by the ion-exchange process. subsequently  the response surface methodology was employed to establish the empirical models for understanding the influences of some initial operating conditions on bmed performance. finally  the bmed-based reclamation scheme was confirmed again by a continuous bmed experiment on real solution. specially  the effects of product concentration on current efficiency and energy consumption were investigated. in this case  an acceptable current efficiency and energy consumption were obtained on the basis of the conventional membranes and spacers when the product concentration was set as 0.9 m  which is adequate for the regeneration of ion-exchange resins.
5133,modification in the chemical bath deposition apparatus  growth and characterization of cds semiconducting thin films for photovoltaic applications,abstract in this paper  growth and characterization of cds thin films by chemical bath deposition (cbd) technique using the reaction between cdcl 2   (nh 2 ) 2 cs and nh 3 in an aqueous solution has been reported. the parameters actively involved in the process of deposition have been identified. a commonly available cbd system has been sucessfully modified to obtain the precious control over the ph of the solution at 90°c during the deposition and studies have been made to understand the fundamental parameters like concentrations of the solution  ph and temperature of the solution involved in the chemical bath deposition of cds. it is confirmed that the ph of the solution plays a vital role in the quality of the cbd–cds films. structural  optical and electrical properties have been analysed for the as-deposited and annealed films. xrd studies on the cbd–cds films reveal that the change in cadmium ion concentration in the bath results in the change in crystallization from cubic phase with (1 1 1) predominant orientation to a hexagonal phase with (0 0 2) predominant orientation. the structural changes due to varying cadmium ion concentration in the bath affects the optical and electrical properties. optimum electrical resistivity  band gap and refractive index value are observed for the annealed films deposited from 0.8 m cadmium ion concentration. the films are suitable for solar cell fabrication. further on  annealing the samples at 350°c in h 2 for 30 min resulted in an increased diffraction intensity as well as shifts in the peak towards lower scattering angles due to enlarged cds unit cell. this in turn brought about an increase in the lattice parameters and narrowing in the band-gap values. the results are compared with the analysis of previous work.
5135,feasibility assessment of desalination application in australian traditional agriculture,abstract within some data limitations  the paper provides a first assessment of areas in australia with potential for implementing desalination technologies to supply agricultural water. at the national scale  these areas were identified based on a set of selected criteria: distance from land currently used for irrigated agriculture and feedlots; distance from town sites; exclusion of areas of environmental protection; exclusion of areas with surface elevation greater than 600 m ahd; and exclusion of regions with limited groundwater resources. industries involved in the production of high-value crops are most likely to benefit from desalinated water as they use more-efficient irrigation practices and have the highest gross value of irrigated agricultural production. groundwater was identified as the most likely feedwater source for cost-effective desalination  which is also the case worldwide. brine disposal is a major factor in overall cost effectiveness of desalination. when feedwater salinity is relatively low  mixing permeate with feedwater leads to an increase in water production and a reduction in water cost. it was estimated that australian farmers are unlikely to pay more than au$1.2/kl for agricultural water. generally for agriculture  desalinated water is still more expensive than water from other sources; however  there are likely to be circumstances when the costs could be comparable.
5137,utilization of desalination brine for sodium hydroxide production: technologies  engineering principles  recovery limits  and future directions,as global desalination capacity continues its rapid growth  the impetus for reducing the adverse environmental impacts of brine discharge grows concurrently. although modern brine outfall designs have significantly limited such impacts  they are costly. recovering valuable components and chemical derivatives from brine has potential to resolve both environmental and economic concerns. in this article  methods for producing sodium hydroxide (“caustic”) from seawater reverse osmosis (swro) brine for internal reuse  which typically involve brine purification  brine concentration  and sodium chloride electrolysis  are reviewed. because process energy consumption drives process cost and caustic purity determines product usability in drinking water systems  reviewed technologies are benchmarked against thermodynamic minimum energy consumption and maximum (stoichiometric) naoh production rates. after individual reviews of brine purification  concentration  and electrolysis technologies  five existing facilities ...
5139,coming soon to a wal-mart near you,according to the web site of the association for automatic identification and data capture technologies [http://www.aimglobal.org/technologies/rfid]  "radio frequency identification (rfid) technology is an automatic way to collect product  place  and time or transaction data quickly and easily without human intervention or error. " with the ability to track everything from crates of disposable razors to individual peanut-butter jars on the store shelves  rfid technology offers the potential of "real-time supply chain visibility. " promoters of rfid technology feel [c. humer  2003] that "rf tags are to this decade what the internet was to the 1990's-a promise of radical change in the way business is done. " however  before the full potential of rfid technology can be realized  several hurdles need to be overcome: reliability  cost  lack of standards  and security. as these hurdles gradually diminish  wal-mart publicly embraces the technology.
5141,amplification of sirna in caenorhabditis elegans generates a transgenerational sequence-targeted histone h3 lysine 9 methylation footprint,exogenous double-stranded rna (dsrna) has been shown to exert homology-dependent effects at the level of both target mrna stability and chromatin structure. using c. elegans undergoing rnai as an animal model  we have investigated the generality  scope and longevity of dsrna-targeted chromatin effects and their dependence on components of the rnai machinery. using high-resolution genome-wide chromatin profiling  we found that a diverse set of genes can be induced to acquire locus-specific enrichment of histone h3 lysine 9 trimethylation (h3k9me3)  with modification footprints extending several kilobases from the site of dsrna homology and with locus specificity sufficient to distinguish the targeted locus from the other 20 000 genes in the c. elegans genome. genetic analysis of the response indicated that factors responsible for secondary sirna production during rnai were required for effective targeting of chromatin. temporal analysis revealed that h3k9me3  once triggered by dsrna  can be maintained in the absence of dsrna for at least two generations before being lost. these results implicate dsrna-triggered chromatin modification in c. elegans as a programmable and locus-specific response defining a metastable state that can persist through generational boundaries.
5143,appropriate critical values when testing for a single multivariate outlier by using the mahalanobis distance,the mahalanobis distance is a well-known criterion which may be used for detecting outliers in multivariate data. however  there are some discrepancies about which critical values are suitable for this purpose. following a comparison with wilks's method  this paper shows that the previously recommended {p(n-1)/(n-p)}f p n−p are unsuitable  and p(n-1) 2 f p n−p−1 /n(n−p−1+pf p n−p−1 ) are the correct critical values when searching for a single outlier the importance of which critical values should be used is illustrated when searching for a single outlier in a clinical laboratory data set containing 10 patients and five variables. the jackknifed mahalanobis distance is also discussed and the relevant critical values are given. finally  upper bounds for the usual mahalanobis distance and the jackknifed version are discussed.
5145,on the theory and computation of evolutionary distances,this paper gives a formal definition of the biological concept of evolutionary distance and an algorithm to compute it. for any set s of finite sequences of varying lengths this distance is a real-valued function on $s \times s$  and it is shown to be a metric under conditions which are wide enough to include the biological application. the algorithm  introduced here  lends itself to computer programming and provides a method to compute evolutionary distance which is shorter than the other methods currently in use.
5147,electrical  optical  and structural properties of indium-tin-oxide thin films for organic light-emitting devices,high-quality indium–tin–oxide (ito) thin films (200–850 nm) have been grown by pulsed laser deposition (pld) on glass substrates without a postdeposition annealing treatment. the structural  electrical  and optical properties of these films have been investigated as a function of target composition  substrate deposition temperature  background gas pressure  and film thickness. films were deposited from various target compositions ranging from 0 to 15 wt % of sno2 content. the optimum target composition for high conductivity was 5 wt % sno2+95 wt % in2o3. films were deposited at substrate temperatures ranging from room temperature to 300 °c in o2 partial pressures ranging from 1 to 100 mtorr. films were deposited using a krf excimer laser (248 nm  30 ns full width at half maximum) at a fluence of 2 j/cm2. for a 150-nm-thick ito film grown at room temperature in an oxygen pressure of 10 mtorr  the resistivity was 4×10−4 ω cm and the average transmission in the visible range (400–700 nm) was 85%. for a 170-n...
5149,a second generation of homogenized canadian monthly surface air temperature for climate trend analysis,[1] this study presents a second generation of homogenized monthly mean surface air temperature data set for canadian climate trend analysis. monthly means of daily maximum and of daily minimum temperatures were examined at 338 canadian locations. data from co-located observing sites were sometimes combined to create longer time series for use in trend analysis. time series of observations were then adjusted to account for nation-wide change in observing time in july 1961  affecting daily minimum temperatures recorded at 120 synoptic stations; these were adjusted using hourly temperatures at the same sites. next  homogeneity testing was performed to detect and adjust for other discontinuities. two techniques were used to detect non-climatic shifts in de-seasonalized monthly mean temperatures: a multiple linear regression based test and a penalized maximal t test. these discontinuities were adjusted using a recently developed quantile-matching algorithm: the adjustments were estimated with the use of a reference series. based on this new homogenized temperature data set  annual and seasonal temperature trends were estimated for canada for 1950–2010 and southern canada for 1900–2010. overall  temperature has increased at most locations. for 1950–2010  the annual mean temperature averaged over the country shows a positive trend of 1.5°c for the past 61 years. this warming is slightly more pronounced in the minimum temperature than in the maximum temperature; seasonally  the greatest warming occurs in winter and spring. the results are similar for southern canada although the warming is considerably greater in the minimum temperature compared to the maximum temperature over the period 1900–2010.
5151,sample size calculation in epidemiological studies,summary sample-size determination is often an important step in planning an epidemiological study. there are several approaches to determining sample size. it depends on the type of the study. descriptive  observational and randomized controlled studies have different formulas to calculate sample size. in this article  we discuss the formulas that can help to estimate sample size in an epidemiological trial. we present a few examples from clinical practice  which may contribute to the understanding of this problem. keywords: sample size determination determining an appropriate sample size for a clinical trial is an essential step in the statistical design of the pro-ject. an adequate sample size helps ensure that the stu-dy will yield reliable information  regardless of whether the ultimate data suggest a clinically important difference between the treatments being studied  or the study is in-tended to measure the accuracy of a diagnostic test or the incidence of a disease. unfortunately  many studies pub-lished in medical literature are conducted with inadequate sample sizes  making the interpretation of negative results difﬁcult. conductingastudywithaninadequatesamplesize is not only futile  it is also unethical. exposing pa-tients to the risks inherent in a research is justiﬁableon-ly if there is a realistic possibility that the results will be-neﬁtthosesubjects futuresubjects orleadtosubstantialscientiﬁcprogress. how many individuals will i need to study? this ques-tion iscommonly asked by a clinical investigator and ex-poses oneof many issues that are best to be settled before actually carryingout a study. consultation with a statisti-cian is worthwhilein addressing many issues of study de-sign  but a statisticianis not always readily available. sample size (n) is the number of individuals in a group under study. the larger the sample size  the grea-ter the precision and  thus  power for a given study de-sign to detect an effect of a given size. for statisticians  an n > 30 is usually sufﬁcientforthecentrallimittheo-rem to hold so that normal theory approximations can be used for measures such as the standard error of the mean. however  this sample size (n = 30) is unrelated to the cli-nicians’ objective of detecting biologically signiﬁcantef-fects  which determines the speciﬁcsamplesizeneededfor a speciﬁcstudy[1].
5153,levels of selection in evolution,ever since the groundbreaking work of george williams  w. d. hamilton  and richard dawkins  evolutionary biologists have recognized that natural selection generally does not operate for the good of the group  but rather for the good of lower-level units such as the individual  the cell  even the gene. one of the fundamental problems of biology is: what keeps competition between these various levels of natural selection from destroying the common interests to be gained from cooperation? in this volume twelve prominent scientists explore this question  presenting a comprehensive survey of the current theoretical and empirical research in evolutionary biology. recent studies show that at many levels of biological organization  mechanisms have evolved to prevent potential conflict in natural selection. editor laurent keller's aim in this book is to bring together leading researchers from all biological disciplines to outline these potential conflicts and discuss how they are resolved. a multi-level approach of this kind allows important insights into the evolution of life  as well as bridging the long-standing conceptual chasm between molecular and organismal biologists. the chapters here follow a rigorous theoretical framework  giving the book an overall synergy that is unique to multi-authored books. the contributors  in addition to the editor  are h. charles j. godfray  edward allen herre  dawn m. kitchen  egbert giles leigh  jr.  catherine m. lessells  richard e. michod  leonard nunney  craig packer  andrew pomiankowski  h. kern reeve  john maynard smith  and eors szathmary. "
5155,why people feel crowded: an examination of objective and subjective crowding,prior studies have found only a modest relationship between objective and subjective crowding  defying logic and commonsensical notions of why people feel crowded. using data from a representative sample of bangkok  thailand  where the level of household crowding is four times that in western societies  we explore several possibilities of why this is the case. examining seven different indicators of objective crowding  our analyses suggest that the modest relationship is not an artifact of measurement. contrary to the assumption of prior investigations  the findings indicate that the objective-subjective crowding relationship is nonlinear and that there is a ceiling effect muting the impact of increased objective crowding. the analyses further suggest that the strength of the relationship is mitigated somewhat  with part of the feeling of being crowded accounted for by household circumstances  such as the degree of control an individual has over the use of household space.
5157,code of the street: decency  violence  and the moral life of the inner city,inner-city black america is often defined by random  senseless street violence. in fact  although violence is a salient feature  its use is far from random; it is regulated through an informal but well-known code of the street. how you dress  how you talk  whether you make eye-contact  your understanding of the pecking order - such crucial details can have life-or-death consequences and young people are particularly at risk. in this anatomy of the inner-city psyche  the author shows how the code is a response to the lack of well-paid jobs; to the stigma of race; to rampant drug use; to alienation and to lack of hope. the police exercise no control  and the individual's safety and sense of worth are defined by how much respect he can command in public; this deference is based physical and psycholgical control and on an implied threat of violence. the most powerful force counteracting the code is the strong  loving decent family. unfortunately  the culture of the street thrives and often defeats decency because it controls public space so that individuals with better aspirations are often entangled in the code.
5159,economic restructuring and suburbanization in china,as in other countries  suburbanization in china occurred after the cities had experienced a period of sustained industrial and population growth. this study examines suburbanization in beijing  shanghai  shenyang  and dalian. as a result of economic restructuring  the urban core registered net population loss from 1982 to 1990 because of decentralization while the inner suburbs gained population. among the forces driving suburbanization were marketization of urban land  the shift of industrial land to tertiary use  transportation improvement  the availability of foreign and domestic capital  housing rehabilitation in the city  and new housing construction in the suburbs. there were certain similarities but major differences between american and chinese suburbanization. unlike the current metropolitan landscape in the united states where suburban growth has given rise to a polycentric spatial structure  suburbanization in china is still at the incipient stage of development with suburbs dominated by centra...
5161,the effect of information related to fat content and taste on consumer responses to a reduced-fat frankfurter and a reduced-fat chocolate bar,the effects of product information on responses to frankfurter sausages and chocolate bars were studied by comparing sensory and hedonic ratings in two conditions: blind tasting and tasting with information present. furthermore  the effect of information alone was investigated by having the subjects rate the expected sensory and hedonic intensities of the products on the basis of packages with different claims. three groups of subjects were tested by giving them different information: the basic group (no added claims  n = 31)  the reduced-fat group (products claimed to have reduced-fat  n=29) and the flavorful group (products claimed to have full meat/chocolate flavor  n = 31). product information increased the rated pleasantness of the frankfurter in all three information groups compared to the blind ratings. the information did not affect the pleasantness of the chocolate bars. the expected attribute intensities of the frankfurters and chocolates were rated lower by the reduced-fat group than by the other groups. overall  the effect of product information was more clearly seen in ratings of sensory attributes than in pleasantness ratings.
5163,social isolation and social support: an applied perspective,considerable empirical evidence substantiates the importance of social networks and support to health and well-being among the elderly. but considerably more research is necessary before successful interventions can be more generally implemented to positively alter an elder's network. in this article  the authors discuss social supportand isolationfrom an appliedperspective. they have combined presentations originally made at a national institute on aging-sponsored symposium on applied gerontology held in august 1992. they make some general observations concerning the field of applied social relations in later life  describe the mental health aspects of these relations  list some fundamental principles and existing technology for this field  describe the use of a brief screening instrument for social isolation developed by one of the authors (lubben)  and explore varying domains of knowledge concerning elder soical relations. they conclude by outlining some areas that they see as requiring the attention o...
5165,the changing problem of overcrowded housing,abstract overcrowding has increased in the u.s. after decades of decline—dramatically so in some locales and for some ethnic groups. the nature of the problem and its very definition for policy purposes are also changing. we examine the special characteristics of the overcrowded  where they are located  why the incidence of crowding has resurged  and why it is confined to specific locales. ethnicity  age  immigration  and poverty play important roles  but housing market conditions appear much less important. we also show that the planning standard used to judge overcrowding is a relative one that has varied over time  and that the social norms vary among ethnic groups. the issue of overcrowding may exemplify the current perplexities about imposing uniform standards in an evolving multiethnic society. worst-case housing needs would be better targeted in highly impacted locales by allowing more “place diversity” in the setting of standards.
5167,from youth to adult homelessness,governments have shown an interest in early intervention strategies to reduce youth homelessness  but critics say that early intervention programs lack clear outcomes. this paper investigates what happens when early intervention programs are not in place and young people progress to adult homelessness. the paper assesses the 'social adaptation' hypothesis that the longer young people are homeless the more they adapt to homelessness as a way of life. the paper uses information on 1 677 individuals who first became homeless when they were 18 or younger. three-quarters of the sample had progressed to adult homelessness (defined as 25 or older) and one-quarter were now young adults aged 19 to 24. the findings confirm that the longer people are homeless  the more difficult it becomes to get out of homelessness. however  the social adaptation account overstates the extent to which people accept homelessness as a 'way of life'. people can return to conventional accommodation if they are given long-term support. the paper concludes with three policy recommendations.
5169,the mismatch argument: the construction of a housing orthodoxy in australia,australia's housing policy discourse contains many orthodoxies. while orthodoxies are never totally accepted within a discourse  they are the dominant notions within them and as such carry significant symbolic authority. one orthodoxy that has particular authority in australia is the notion that there is a 'mismatch' in the housing system between the available stock and the size of households to the extent that there is significant underutilisation and underoccupancy of housing. the mismatch argument's power as orthodoxy is such that the idea is assumed in much housing policy discussion. criticism of the mismatch orthodoxy can take many approaches  such as empirical  conceptual and discursive. the discursive critique focuses not on the empirical relationship between households and dwellings  but on the statements about that relationship. the resulting analysis shows how the mismatch orthodoxy arose in australia and its effects on housing discourse. this paper examines the construction of the mismatch orthodoxy  from its first uses in the early 1970s to its entrenchment in national and state housing policy research in the early 1990s. it shows how the structures of the discourse construct the orthodoxy  despite empirical and conceptual criticisms of it. of particular importance is the effect the orthodoxy has on people deemed to be underutilising their dwellings  and on how the orthodoxy affects policy interpretations  such as occupancy standards.
5171,population growth  urban sprawl and landscape integrity of beijing city,the detailed landscape pattern of the urban area within the 6th ring road in beijing city was identified using airborne remote sensing data acquired between 1997 and 2002. the landscape indices at landscape level were computed using fragstats 3.3  and changes in land use/cover types in beijing from 1997 to 2002 were examined. the results show that urban built area (uba) and farmland changed greatly within the 6th ring road  and that farmland had been replaced by uba. the number of patches increased by 106.6%  mean patch area decreased by 51.6%  the splitting index increased by 94.3%  and the landscape diversity index increased by 17.8%. the landscape pattern had become more fragmented and diversified in these 5 years. the main driving forces for landscape change were the increasing demand for land for construction due to the growing population  unreasonable urban growth  and improvements in housing standards. the landscape pattern change in beijing led by rapid urbanisation has negatively influenced urban...
5173,application of growth technologies in enhancing food security and sustainability,anabolic steroids have been widely used in the beef cattle industry for over 50 years as safe and effective growth-promoting agents  and today  more than 90% of all feedlot cattle in the us receive some type of steroidal implant during their lifetime (nahms  usda 2000). a list of approval of growth promotants by the fda is shown in table 1. generally  implants have been shown to increase growth rate 8 to 28%  improve feed efficiency 5 to 20%  and enhance lean tissue mass of the carcass 3 to 10% (duckett and owens  1997). this improvement in production efficiency has multiple benefits: 1) it clearly and dramatically reduces production costs by reducing the amount of feed required per unit of gain (avery and avery  2007); 2) it reduces the amount of land necessary to produce equivalent amounts of food for consumers; 3) it limits the production of greenhouse gases by reducing the number of animals required to produce equivalent amounts of beef (avery and avery  2007); and 4) it extends cost savings to consumers by providing a year-round  affordable supply of beef at reduced prices (lawrence and ibarburu  2006). since animal products contribute significantly to the total caloric and nutrient intake in the human population  altering the composition of growth toward more lean tissue and less adipose tissue results in a healthier product with fewer calories that still is rich in beneficial nutrients. in addition to steroidal implants  a newer class of orally active growth promotants  known as b-adrenergic agonists (baa; ractopamine-hcl; 2003 and zilpaterol-hcl; 2006)  have been approved for use in finishing beef cattle in the last decade. these products provide similar production benefits as steroidal implants  but differ in application and mode of action. beta-adrenergic agonists are fed during the last 20 to 42 days of the cattle finishing period  depending on the specific product. the purpose of this paper is to explain how anabolic implants and baa work and their benefits to beef cattle production.
5175,assessment of hemodynamic efficacy and safety of 6% hydroxyethylstarch 130/0.4 vs. 0.9% nacl fluid replacement in patients with severe sepsis: the crystmas study,inadequate initial treatment and delayed hemodynamic stabilization (hds) may be associated with increased risk of death in severe sepsis patients. in order to compare the hemodynamic efficacy and safety of 6% hes 130/0.4 and nacl 0.9% for hds in patients with severe sepsis  we designed a prospective  multicenter  active-controlled  double-blind  randomized study in intensive care units. 174 out of 196 patients reached hds (88 and 86 patients for hes and nacl  respectively). significantly less hes was used to reach hds vs. nacl (1 379 ±886 ml in the hes group and 1 709 ±1 164 ml in the nacl group (mean difference = -331± 1 033  95% ci -640 to -21  p = 0.0185). time to reach hds was 11.8 10.1 hours vs. 14.3 ±11.1 hours for hes and nacl  respectively. total quantity of study drug infused over four consecutive days  icu and hospital los  and area under the curve of sofa score were comparable. acute renal failure occurred in 24 (24.5%) and 19 (20%) patients for hes and nacl  respectively (p = 0.454). there was no difference between akin and rifle criteria among groups and no difference in mortality  coagulation  or pruritus up to 90 days after treatment initiation. significantly less volume was required to achieve hds for hes vs. nacl in the initial phase of fluid resuscitation in severe sepsis patients without any difference for adverse events in both groups. nct00464204
5177,invariant nkt cells modulate the suppressive activity of il-10-secreting neutrophils differentiated with serum amyloid a.,neutrophils are the main effector cells during inflammation  but they can also control excessive inflammatory responses by secreting anti-inflammatory cytokines. however  the mechanisms that modulate their plasticity remain unclear. we now show that systemic serum amyloid a 1 (saa-1) controls the plasticity of neutrophil differentiation. saa-1 not only induced anti-inflammatory interleukin 10 (il-10)-secreting neutrophils but also promoted the interaction of invariant natural killer t cells (inkt cells) with those neutrophils  a process that limited their suppressive activity by diminishing the production of il-10 and enhancing the production of il-12. because saa-1-producing melanomas promoted differentiation of il-10-secreting neutrophils  harnessing inkt cells could be useful therapeutically by decreasing the frequency of immunosuppressive neutrophils and restoring tumor-specific immune responses.
5179,targeting metabolic remodeling in glioblastoma multiforme.,a key aberrant biological difference between tumor cells and normal differentiated cells is altered metabolism  whereby cancer cells acquire a number of stable genetic and epigenetic alterations to retain proliferation  survive under unfavorable microenvironments and invade into surrounding tissues. a classic biochemical adaptation is the metabolic shift to aerobic glycolysis rather than mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation  regardless of oxygen availability  a phenomenon termed the "warburg effect". aerobic glycolysis  characterized by high glucose uptake  low oxygen consumption and elevated production of lactate  is associated with a survival advantage as well as the generation of substrates such as fatty acids  amino acids and nucleotides necessary in rapidly proliferating cells. this review discusses the role of key metabolic enzymes and their association with aerobic glycolysis in glioblastoma multiforme (gbm)  an aggressive  highly glycolytic and deadly brain tumor. targeting key metabolic enzymes involved in modulating the "warburg effect" may provide a novel therapeutic approach either singularly or in combination with existing therapies in gbms.
5181,association between pre-diabetes  type 2 diabetes and trabecular bone score: the vietnam osteoporosis study.,aims trabecular bone score (tbs) is a surrogate indicator of bone microarchitecture. the presenent study sought to examine the association between type 2 diabetes (t2d) and trabecular bone score (tbs) in adult vietnamese men and women. methods the study was part of the vietnam osteoporosis study  in which 2702 women and 1398 men aged ≥30 yrs were recruited from the general community in ho chi minh city. hba1c levels were measured by the adams™ a1c ha-8160 (arkray  kyoto  japan)  and classified into 3 groups: normal if hba1c <5.7%; pre-diabetes (5.7 to 6.4%); and diabetes (>6.4%). tbs was evaluated by insight software  version 2.1 (medimaps  merignac  france) on lumbar spine bmd scan (hologic horizon). differences in tbs between diabetic status were analyzed by the multivariable regression model with adjustment for age and body mass index. results the prevalence of pre-diabetes and diabetes in men and women was 30.2% and 8.3%  respectively. in women  tbs was lower in pre-diabetes (-0.02; p<0.001) and diabetes (-0.02; p<0.001) compared with normal individuals. in men  there was no statistically significant difference in tbs between diabetic status. moreover  tbs was significantly inversely correlated with hba1c levels in women (p = 0.01)  but not in men (p = 0.89). conclusion women  but not men  with type 2 diabetes and pre-diabetes have lower tbs than individuals without diabetes. these data suggest that diabetes and prediabetes are associated with deterioration of bone microarchitecture.
